&#160;&#160; The next item is the Council Statement on the presentation of the programme of the Finnish Presidency.
We welcome the Prime Minister of Finland and his Secretary of State for European Affairs, as well as the President of the Commission.
It is an exacting task to discharge the responsibilities of the Presidency in the European Union, but at the same time it is a great honour and privilege, and Finland welcomes the challenge.
As the country to hold the Presidency, our collaboration with the European Parliament has got off to a good start.
I would like to thank the President and all the other Members of the European Parliament who attended the meeting between the Finnish Government and Parliament in Helsinki.
Ever since Finland joined the EU it has supported efforts to make the work of the Union’s institutions more effective and improve the close cooperation that exists between them.
As the country to hold the Presidency, we will work in close and effective cooperation with the European Parliament.
Everyone, men and women alike, at the same time had the right to vote and the right to stand for election.
In Finland, the parliament is closely involved in the handling of EU affairs, and it has a lot of influence.
Perhaps this experience that we have of fruitful cooperation with our parliament has in turn made it so natural for us Finns to engage in close cooperation with the European Parliament too.
There is no overlap in the work of the European Parliament and that of the national parliaments: each has its own role to play in Union affairs.
During its Presidency, Finland will endeavour to persuade the Union to look outwards and ahead.
That would be disastrous, above all for the future of our children and future generations.
The world around us will not wait.
In recent years participation in decision-making in the Union has left something to be desired and the public are more critical about that than before.
That is why its reduced legitimacy and its diminished justification and credibility in the eyes of the people must be taken seriously.
As many of you have often said, the Union must be able to demonstrate the benefits it offers to its citizens in other ways too, and more tangibly.
Europe cannot wait around for new rules on decision-making: it needs to start improving the way it functions straight away.
I am pleased that we in the European Council decided to increase the transparency of Council sittings.
Finland will aim to contribute to the issue of transparency in other ways too, in all its practical work and activities.
During its Presidency, Finland will steer its resources towards better regulation, that is to say, quality of legislation, and attention to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
The Presidency will invest time and effort in ensuring that decision-making takes careful account of the economic, social and environmental effects of legislative proposals.
Our goal will also be to expedite the implementation of Commission proposals that aim to simplify and update legislation.
The work of the Council will be based on the Annual Work Programme for 2006, which we drafted together with Austria.
With Austria it has gone well, and we intend to continue the cooperation in just the same positive spirit with Germany, which succeeds us.
The Finnish Presidency is committed to working through the Union agenda and all the issues on it effectively, efficiently and impartially.
Finland wants to promote the debate on the Union’s future.
I am pleased that the European Council decided in June that, with regard to the Constitutional Treaty, it was time to move on from mere reflection to a more proactive stage.
This twin-track approach is the right one: we will improve the way the Union functions in line with the current Treaties, whilst at the same time we start to ponder the future of the Constitutional Treaty.
During its Presidency, Finland will start consultations relating to the future of the Constitutional Treaty.
These consultations with the Member States and EU institutions will form the basis of a report to be produced during the first half of 2007, when Germany has the Presidency.
In Finland the Government presented a proposal on the ratification of the Treaty to the Finnish Parliament at the start of June, and Parliament will deliberate on the matter in its autumn session.
Not only is enlargement a crucial tool for strengthening stability and democracy, it is also one of Europe’s strategic responses to the challenges of globalisation.
No new accession criteria should be set for applicant countries, but at the same time the existing criteria must be adhered to unconditionally.
During our Presidency a decision will be taken on the accession date for Romania and Bulgaria.
The process concerning the status of Kosovo is likely to reach a conclusive phase in the autumn.
The Presidency hopes that the parties will achieve results in the exacting negotiations entered into under Martti Ahtisaari by the end of the year.
A vital area during the Finnish Presidency will be the competitiveness of the Union and its Member States and their success in global competition.
These we will make efforts to address over a broad spectrum during our Presidency in the various formations of the Council.
A fundamental question is where Europe will find the foundations for economic growth.
Finland’s answer is that it will be found in such areas as innovation, energy solutions, the quality of work and productivity, openness in global trade, immigration and a competent social security system.
In Council legislation work and at the meeting of the Heads of State and Government in Lahti we will focus on initiatives designed to create a favourable environment for generating innovation and adopting it effectively.
If there is to be a wide-ranging innovation policy there will have to be more effective cooperation and decision-making in the Union, for example, in standardisation, in the protection of intellectual property, and in the development of the financial markets.
The market in services is of major importance in this, and it is excellent that we are nearing a settlement on the Services Directive.
I hope that the directive can be finally adopted immediately at second reading in the European Parliament.
External relations regarding energy are also on the agenda at the meeting of the Heads of State and Government in Lahti.
Europe’s economic success depends very much on securing a reliable supply of energy at a reasonable price.
All Member States are affected by the challenges of rising energy prices, reliability of supply and climate change.
The European Union, however, needs common energy policy guidelines, and, in particular, a coherent policy on external relations with regard to energy.
During the Finnish Presidency we want to promote the strategic debate on how we need to make our objectives on energy policy visible in the Union’s external relations.
Energy consumption and the choice of energy sources are closely related to the most serious threat to the environment of our time, climate change.
A comprehensive approach would not only work to promote a response to the climate challenge which is as effective as possible but would protect EU competitiveness.
Both these issues, energy and climate change, will be high on the agenda at summits with third countries during the Finnish Presidency, including the 10th ASEM Summit between the EU and Asian countries, to take place in Helsinki.
There needs to be a balance between reform, social security and environmental sustainability.
Frequently, however, new working methods and modern technology benefit both economic growth and social welfare, and reduce emissions into the environment.
During the Finnish Presidency, the EU’s international role will be consolidated and the coherence in the way it acts and functions will be reinforced.
They must be used with consistency, whether it is regarding policy on external relations, trade, development cooperation or human rights.
The Western Balkans, transatlantic relations and Asia will also be high on the agenda.
EU-Russian relations will not just be limited to the issues of trade and energy: the aim is for a broad-based partnership, in which European values and global interests unite us.
The goal will be Russia’s ever closer involvement in democratic European cooperation in the various sectors of society.
For that we need more dialogue between the EU countries and Russia, as well as student exchanges, cultural collaborations, and the active involvement of civil society.
The development of the Northern Dimension is also of value in respect of other forms of cooperation in the Baltic region.
In addition to all this, we will obviously devote our efforts to the crises in the Middle East and other regions.
In external relations the unexpected is the rule rather than the exception.
Finland is also ready to take its presidential responsibilities seriously should the unexpected occur.
During the Finnish Presidency, a thorough political evaluation will be carried out on the progress achieved in the area of freedom, security and justice.
We need concrete action, effective decision-making and the rigid implementation nationally of the decisions that have already been taken.
In 1999 the Tampere Summit showed the way for the ambitious and democratic development of justice and home affairs.
Now, in 2006, the assessment of the Hague Programme will provide an opportunity actively to push ahead with European cooperation in this area.
The public expect effective action on the part of the European Union in the fight against international criminality, people trafficking and terrorism.
The work can be improved if the Member States are ready to switch to a system of qualified majority decisions and communitisation in this area.
The most recent European Council called on us to consider this in conjunction with the Commission.
If judgments and decisions by the legal authorities in another Member State are implemented as they stand, this can be a very real way of boosting the efficiency of large-scale, cross-border criminal investigations and speeding up legal proceedings.
A good example of this is the European arrest warrant, which has resulted in shortening the time it has taken to extradite suspects from more than six months to as little as just one day.
Recent events, such as those in the Canary Islands and Malta, have once again made illegal immigration headline news.
The importance of cooperation with the countries of origin and transit involved in illegal immigration cannot be overstated.
We need to ensure that the Union’s common asylum system is in place by 2010.
As I said at the beginning, cooperation between the institutions at both European and national level must be developed further.
Today I would like to thank you in particular for this opportunity to present the priorities of the Finnish Presidency and discuss with you how they may be promoted.
I await your comments with interest both today and at any time in the future, in this plenary and in other contexts.
The leaders of the political groups in the European Parliament, for example at the public meeting in Helsinki at the start of June, have demonstrated the will and ability to move forward with the European agenda.
It is also a natural thing to do at European level.
I look forward to being here again in the European Parliament in connection with the summits that are to be held during the Finnish Presidency.
Let us join efforts between the Presidency, the Commission and Parliament.
Europe needs the clear, dynamic harmony which Finland brings.
I welcome the presentation by the Prime Minister, Mr&#160;Vanhanen.
He has shown that the next six months present an opportunity to demonstrate what we mean when we talk about a Europe of results, to deliver on important dossiers of concern to our citizens, to move towards the next stage in the constitutional question, to steer the discussion on enlargement.
In short, to follow the twin-track approach which I outlined to this House last month – an approach that was endorsed by the European Council – to move from a period of reflection to a period of engagement.
Let me pick up just some of the themes raised by Prime Minister Vanhanen.
It is one of the most successful policies of the European Union, an extraordinary achievement in exporting freedom and opportunity across our continent.
It is important to show that Europe does not enlarge by default, that enlargement is a conscious choice that is of benefit to all, that far from being a negative factor, an enlarged Europe is a precondition for a powerful Europe, for a Europe that really counts in the world.
I welcome the fact that negotiations are under way.
Turkey must fulfil its commitments, just as the European Union must fulfil its commitments.
Each Presidency brings its own particular expertise to the European Union.
I strongly support the emphasis placed by the Presidency on the relationship with Russia.
Next week Prime Minister Vanhanen and I will travel to St Petersburg for the G8 Summit to determine, I hope, a new framework for the global energy challenges which require a global response.
For energy, as for climate change, we need this global response.
The ultimate result should be a shared policy with common ownership by all players, including Russia.
In this context, the Commission has taken good note of this Parliament’s aspiration to establish a parliamentary forum.
In this area, as well as in others, we must move from reflection to engagement, to real delivery.
Political support must now be translated into concrete actions which create a more innovative climate in Europe.
My Commission will prepare a short paper on innovation to prepare for the Lahti informal summit.
We must promote effective mechanisms – like venture capital – to finance innovation by European companies, having in mind also small and medium-sized companies.
Last week the Commission adopted proposals for an ambitious programme for increased security and more efficient justice for Europe’s citizens in a way that respects and protects their rights.
This is a key feature of our Europe of Results agenda.
The European Union will return to Tampere for the informal Justice and Home Affairs Council in September, to deepen European integration in this crucial area.
The case for deeper and more dynamic European action is clear: against those who plot against our values, freedom and democracy; against those who traffic in human beings, especially women and children; against illegal migration and those who exploit people in the workplace.
We should not wait for the next tragedy in order to advance European integration in these areas: we must act now to prevent it.
For example, everybody agrees that sexual exploitation of children is a repugnant crime, yet only five countries have transposed the framework directive.
To achieve our goals, we must improve our procedures.
The Commission believes the Community method, including proper European democratic scrutiny by this Parliament, should be spread to police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and legal migration.
That is what we said in our Citizens’ Agenda paper of 10&#160;May.
Any step we take to improve our cooperation in security and justice matters must be matched with an extended protection of the individual citizen’s human and civic rights.
I have picked out only a few of the priorities of the Finnish Presidency.
By exporting our values, by promoting our interests in the world, we can strengthen our identity and confidence.
The world champion will be from the European Union, and the four best teams come from its Member States.
Mr Vanhanen, the meeting we group chairmen had with you in Helsinki was a good one, being effective, professional, transparent and unspectacular, for it is generally the case that failure is the lot of those who announce – or seek – something spectacular, for they cannot come up with what they promised.
Every link in this chain must be strong.
Experience shows that it is not just the presidencies held by the so-called big countries that are successful, but, very often, on the contrary, the smaller countries were.
Our group proposes that work on preparing the substance of this statement and the organisational aspects of it should begin under the Finnish Presidency, and we propose that a working group be set up to deal with the preparations at the political level.
It is not only the Summit that is to be held on 25 March, important though that of course is, and in respect of which the German Federal Chancellor has extended an invitation to Berlin, but there is also some sort of event to be staged in Rome, where the Treaties of Rome were signed fifty years ago, and I am given to understand that the Catholic Church wants to organise something.
I would be very glad, my good Mr Cohn-Bendit, if the Greens, with whom we are in friendly competition where the unification of Europe is concerned, were to get involved in the same way as business and the trade unions are, for this Europe is something in which we all share, and is not the property of any one political family; it is for that reason that everyone should get involved.
Something that you, Mr President of the European Council, will have to address is the relationship with Russia.
Mr President of the European Council, the President of the Finnish Parliament, Mr Lipponen, told the conference of parliamentarians that we, the Austrian Presidency, and the Commission organised in Brussels, that there is also to be a conference of Members of this House and members of the national parliaments.
This is something of which we are very much in favour, believing as we do that we in this House and the national parliaments must work much more closely together.
Mr&#160;President, you see before you an unhappy German group chairman, but a happy socialist one.
Their absence is excusable.
Indeed, there are those who say that we want to offer our people, who face this global challenge, the framework that Europe needs in order to keep its head above water in international competition, and what they need is more Europe.
In this Union of 25 – which will soon comprise 27 states – we cannot resolve the challenges that you rightly described with the means at our disposal; it is not possible.
I now read in a report from Reuters – I have no idea as to whether it is true or false; you can explain that to us – that you, after the meeting with Mr Vanhanen, what one might call the teambuilding in Helsinki, told a press conference that we could also enlarge on the basis of the Treaty of Nice.
You are right to say that we need the ‘passerelle’ clause, but that has nothing to do with any ‘cherry-picking’ approach to the Constitution.
We now have, in the European Union, governments – and that is bad enough – that are supported by right-wing populist parties, some of them openly racist and xenophobic, and these are sitting in the European Council – not as backbenchers in some parliament or other, but as active members of European institutions.
I myself saw an example of this during yesterday’s debate on Francoism, in which one of the speakers was a non-attached Member of this House, whose son is the Deputy Prime Minister of Poland; here, in this House, he openly defended the Franco regime.
Liberal values will be on the march with your Presidency.
Priorities like completing the internal market, particularly in services and the energy sector, are key goals for us in the months ahead, as are efforts to deliver a directive on the portability of supplementary pensions and promoting market openings for new technologies.
The latter will pay more long-term dividends than any government-funded initiatives on research and development, and provide the growth and jobs and prosperity that our Union desperately needs.
President-in-Office, the time has come to heed our call to apply the footbridge clause provided for in Article 42 and to make policy in justice and home affairs democratically.
But true transparency requires that the transposition, implementation and enforcement of legislation be given much more attention than it has to date.
The comitology decision, which gives Parliament the right of recall, giving us equal powers to Council to make sure the law is applied, is a very important step.
As Lönnrot did for Finland in the Kalevala, we need to draw on aspects of our common history to create a common consciousness.
For his people’s lasting pleasure, mighty songs for Suomi’s children. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your speech, Mr&#160;President-in-Office, has left me quite stunned.
It is the same trend, and, indeed, when you say that 'Europe is a combination of values and the capacity to take action', what do you think the relationship is between values and action?
At the moment, Europe is giving the impression that it is under Mr&#160;Putin's thumb, because it is afraid of losing its energy, and when we are afraid of losing our energy, we no longer have any energy at all!
In addition, you talked about illegal immigration, but, before we talk about illegal immigration, we need to discuss the need to organise legal immigration.
These are the issues you need to talk about if you want to save the rule of law in Europe.
In major political issues during the Presidency the Finnish Government will not obtain the backing of its own people.
An indication of that is the resistance to the Government’s proposal to ratify the defunct EU Constitution in the Finnish Parliament this autumn.
According to an opinion poll, just 22% of the Finnish people are in favour of ratification, as proposed by the government.
This Constitution will never come into force anywhere.
Its ratification is a waste of time, although that is what the Commission, among other bodies, wants.
Commissioner Olli Rehn, after all, has adopted a position on this on behalf of the Commission, although the matter does not fall within the Commission’s competence.
Some Member States, furthermore, have proposed to Finland that the Constitution should be ratified.
Neither is Finland showing any regard for the power of the people or democracy in France or the Netherlands.
According to an opinion poll, the Finnish people oppose any military alliance for the country.
The UN is being prepared for illegal wars with no UN mandate, even though, from the legal standpoint internationally, a precondition for legal military action is in fact a UN mandate.
Our group opposes these attempts at the militarization of the EU and involving the EU in illegal wars.
Civil servants in Finland are trained in dealing effectively with matters relating to EU enlargement, Structural Funds programmes, the REACH regulation, the Seventh Framework Programme on science and research and many other day-to-day issues on the EU’s agenda.
Our group actively supports the policy on Russia and thinks that Commission President Barroso’s proposal for a free trade agreement with Russia is an interesting start and one which the Presidency needs to respond to.
One of the key elements we in the European Union must focus on is our relationship with the countries to the east of the existing European Union borders.
Secondly, on the question of transparency and openness – and people often speak about transparency without fully realising or understanding what it means – the most transparent thing Parliament, the institutions and the Presidency can do is to deliver on their commitments.
The President of the Commission rightly referred to the importance of research and technology and innovation for the European economy.
I think some of the ideas your Presidency is putting forward on research and development will yield dividends for us.
I will not be holding my breath. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I ask that Mr Farage’s description of the President of the European Council as ‘not a democrat’ be recorded in the Minutes. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the statements made by the Finnish Presidency appear to indicate that it wishes, and I quote 'to restore the hugely deflated public confidence in the EU’s organisations’.
Although that is, of course, a very commendable goal, it is just a little strange that the source of such sentiments should be the Finnish Government which wants the Finnish Parliament to ratify the moribund European Constitution no matter what, even though this Constitution, following the French and Dutch referendums, is no longer of any legal or democratic-political value whatsoever.
That is in any case a bad start for restoring confidence, but it gets even worse now that the Finnish Presidency has announced that it would consider any breakdown in the accession negotiations with Turkey as, and I quote 'personal failure’.
Instead, they seek to restore and further develop the best possible friendly relations and economic contacts with our neighbour Turkey.
The fact that the Finnish Presidency is now personally committed to promoting this Turkish accession come what may is at odds with the overblown declarations about restoring confidence and respecting the democratic views in Europe.
In view of the fact that Turkish accession is being rammed down our throats, I would urge you to stop the nonsense about democracy and respect for public opinion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Prime Minister, Finland is taking over the helm of the EU at a time when the Union needs leadership more than anything.
That is why it was a pleasure to listen to Prime Minister Vanhanen’s message on Finland’s objectives.
Finland has proposed that the Union should put time and effort into innovation and competitiveness, transparency, energy, the Northern Dimension and external relations, as well as finding a solution regarding the fate of the Constitution.
Prime Minister, security is not created through isolation.
Closer cooperation is needed if we are to improve the security of the European people and global stability.
That time is here and now. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Finland’s success during its Presidency might be measured by how well Finland chairs the debate on Russia and negotiates with that country.
The energy issue has become a sensitive barometer of the relationship between the European Union and Russia, one which could also lead to conflict.
The Russians have begun to take a positive view of the Northern Dimension, but now have doubts about the new European Neighbourhood Policy, because they do not want to be compared with countries in the south or the northern Sahara.
The Northern Dimension must become an important forum for northern issues.
Russia cannot be forced into it, however, and we all have experience of that.
During its Presidency, Finland will not be like Mr&#160;Berlusconi: there will be less play-acting and a little more honesty. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Finnish Presidency will freshen up a tired EU.
History has shown that the presidencies of small countries have often brought with them a breath of fresh air.
Close, tangible cooperation with Russia is important for the entire EU, both economically and politically.
As a neighbouring country, Finland has a special interest in getting talks under way and making rapid progress with them.
Concrete action is expected of the Finnish Presidency in energy policy, environmental policy, and, in particular, cooperation in the Baltic region in all its respects.
Secondly, I would like to raise the issue of transparency.
The Prime Minister said that transparency is essential.
The EU must have the support and approval of its citizens, and, for that, transparency, monitoring and accountability are important factors. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr&#160;Prime Minister, I am sorry but your approach is more that of a careful civil servant or an apprentice rather than a leader, let alone visionary.
You barely acknowledged the importance of climate change.
The inclusion of new countries in particular needs a completely different approach from the one you just proposed.
You merely proposed more effective border controls, police cooperation and asylum procedures.
This is very discouraging indeed.
One internal challenge which we face is discrimination against minorities, such as homosexuals, and I hate all the fuss that was stirred up which the European Parliament intervened in on two occasions this year and asked the Finnish Presidency to do something about.
In the Council, do you intend to take forward the decision that was taken on the fight against racism and xenophobia?
In a few days’ time, the G8 will take place in St Petersburg, and, even though we find the venue very controversial and unacceptable, Europe must present those proposals there, as they go hand in hand with the concept of energy as a common resource of the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, in the debate on the programme of the Finnish Presidency I would like to draw attention to a significant obstacle in relations between the EU and Russia.
Finland, which has traditionally had good relations with Russia, needs to make headway on at least two matters.
The first is Russia’s use of fuel supplies as levers of political influence, both on the EU Member States, and on other countries.
Russia, which wants good relations with the EU, must put a stop to such practices, and this is something that the EU should demand at the next summit.
Secondly, Russia is applying for membership of the World Trade Organisation, in which the EU is a major player, yet she is blocking the import of many products to her markets, thereby infringing WTO standards.
Make the requirement for a referendum in every Member State a condition of acceptance by Finland, thus putting into practice the transparency you heralded.
Open up all meetings to the public unless a majority of the countries actively request this not to be done.
The Prime Minister signed the draft at the Convention with his own hand, in common with all the other elected representatives there.
The draft can be adopted by a simple majority of the 25 Member States.
I fully agree with the priorities of the Finnish Presidency and, in particular, with the emphasis placed on reviving the role of our institutions, both at European level and at international level.
On an international level, as Prime&#160;Minister Matti Vanhanen has declared, the EU is a community of values and its starting points are peace and stability.
I therefore hope that the Council will be able to support the requests that will come from Parliament in this connection, regarding the instruments that must finance international cooperation and the promotion of democracy and of human rights.
The new Presidency wants to develop a transparent and effective Union.
The initial presumption must always, in my view, be against legislating.
It certainly makes sense for two or three incoming Presidencies to get together to agree priorities and to pursue plans based on a longer-term programme.
Finally, can we please sort out the vexed question of the seat of this Parliament once and for all? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, The Finnish Presidency of the Council – as Mr Vanhanen has again demonstrated today – is one with a very sober approach, and, though it might sometimes be rather too cool in its utterances, I can say, thinking of the problems that it will have to deal with, that things are going to hot up quite a bit from time to time.
One problem to which both you and the President of the Commission alluded is the issue of Turkey.
Turning to South-Eastern Europe, I can do no other than confirm that we would also like to see you taking further steps to show all of them – including the Serbs – the road to Europe at this very difficult stage.
Firstly, where energy is concerned, a legally binding framework needs to be agreed on by Russia and the European Union, and, if not the energy charter – concerning which Mr Barroso has announced new initiatives – then it must be some other legally binding framework that is transparent to both parties and valid in both of them.
We both have interests in our common neighbours, but, while we offer them one thing or another, Russia often brings political pressure to bear on them.
I fully support your proposal to change cooperation in legal affairs so that we will now have majority decision-making.
By this I mean that we must not unduly compromise our freedom for the sake of our own security.
Mr Barroso, from one small country to another: have a good match tonight and may the best team win! &#160;&#160; Mr President, President-in-Office, as a representative of the European Free Alliance stateless nations, such as Scotland, Wales and Catalonia, I note that Finland, as well as leading the EU and celebrating a hundred years of restored independence, was the first nation in the world to grant full political rights to women.
As more and more small countries such as Catalonia, Montenegro and my own, Scotland, seek to reassert our right to independence, we look to Finland and the other small Member States of the EU as role models.
I would urge you to do an about-turn, and commit yourself to a truly civilian Europe, with no more billions of taxpayers’ money being spent on militarisation, and to act like a state that really is neutral. &#160;&#160; Although the debate about Europe’s future requires an ambitious and decisive presidency in the second half of 2006, this morning’s presentation makes me fear the worst.
By doing so, you, the Finnish President, prevent a fresh, ambitious debate about the future of the European Union from being initiated.
The Finnish Presidency, which trumpets its commitment to transparency, is keeping Europe painfully divided.
I would therefore call on the Finnish Presidency to display now the ambition and real decisiveness that are called for. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased that the Finnish Prime Minister mentioned more effective European institutions today.
In my view we should not restrict the competences of the Council, but increase those of the European Parliament as the body elected by the citizens, and restrict the competences of the Commission, in whose election the citizens have had no say.
I am pleased with the Finnish Presidency’s support for the idea of greater transparency for European institutions, as transparency is a vital issue.
When the President of the Council speaks of the need to work towards greater European competitiveness, I hope that this is not mere words, and that the Council will translate this promise into concrete action, for instance in the services sector, and that there will be an end to all the restrictions that the unfortunate Services Directive in its current form imposes in this field. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, you are not in the easiest of positions, Mr&#160;Vanhanen, sandwiched between an Austrian Presidency that had a respectable record and a German Presidency that is already attracting some significant attacks.
What we expect from you is that you use your influence in the Council to achieve more proactive developments in judicial and police cooperation.
To conclude, and this may be the only positive note in my speech, I would like to lend you my support in your government's declared desire to show greater firmness with regard to Turkey on the issue of Cyprus, because the Turkish invasion is the only barrier to reunification of the island.
As you can see, there is much to do if your Presidency is not to be a wait-and-see Presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the Finnish Presidency, which I assume will be carried out with the usual Finnish efficiency and professionalism.
Finland has a lot to teach us, particularly in relation to the importance of investment in high-quality education and also how to balance economic efficiency and social justice.
On Friday we, in the United Kingdom, will mark the anniversary of the horrific events of 7 July 2005, when 52 of our citizens were blown up in a terrorist attack.
We had another event on 21 July, which fortunately was unsuccessful.
Let us make delivery by Member States our absolute priority.
Similarly, on migration policy, let us have a fair, effective policy that links development and migration policy, one that makes our borders much more secure.
Let us, on energy, recognise that we have a single market.
I agree with Prime Minister Vanhanen that the Union must focus on the essential and do that effectively.
Research, product development and training are crucial.
Hopefully, the Presidency will quickly succeed in simultaneously introducing legislation and programmes so that the meagre resources contained in the financial frameworks can start to be used.
In practice it is the only area of policy in which the EU regulates the private citizen’s level of income.
Our largest industrial sector, the food industry, is also dependent on it.
Hopefully, the Presidency will succeed in protecting our agriculture at WTO talks, where it is the object of furious attack.
At the same time I hope that the preconditions for sustainable and competitive agriculture are assured everywhere in Europe, including the peripheral regions, in accordance with the decisions of the European Council.
I wish my country, Finland, every success in its Presidency. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there is no need to delude ourselves that anything will change during the Finnish Presidency.
It will continue to implement the same reactionary, anti-grassroots policy and militarisation of Europe for the next six months, as its programme confirms.
Tax relief for capital and new taxes for the workers within the framework of the development of European Union regulations.
We shall support any action by the working-class movement against this policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in recent debates I have heard two definitions of the Finnish Presidency.
The first was that if the EU does not actually regress in the next six months the Finnish Presidency will have been a success.
It is not like that, however: Finland has a lot more to offer Europe and the Europeans.
The especially important priorities, Russia and energy, are areas where Finland has much expertise.
They include REACH and the Financial Regulation and many other matters which are those very small steps which will help the EU to move forward.
It is in fact impossible to push forward enlargement which is too fast and against the will of the people and the Constitution at one and the same time.
Accordingly, it is time we established a new, common, definite idea of what the EU will like be in 10 or 20 years’ time.
That can only be done in cooperation with the social partners, which I hope you will take the lead on.
As I have emphasised this morning, my second appeal to you is that you combat crime, terrorism and human trafficking.
I hope that, using the clause, we shall see the Finnish Presidency ending up with a very clear result for all our citizens. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Prime Minister Vanhanen, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, I believe that the Finnish Government has set itself the right priorities.
As he can see, we in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe in the European Parliament have great confidence in the success of the Finnish Presidency.
We should like him to do something for the common European interest, for the European core, and thus also to set an example for the subsequent German Presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we have won the FIFA World Cup, but in political terms, too, the European Union is on the attack once more, it is achieving joint success, and it has increased its common objectives once again.
I would ask the President-in-Office of the Council to be a strong captain of his Council team and to increase teamwork with his fellow players – cooperation with Parliament, for example, was one of the reasons for the success of the Austrian Presidency.
I ask that he ensure that all citizens of the Member States learn of the transparency of the Council’s role as legislator; and that he advertise transparency and give EuroNews a slot in the schedules of all public broadcasters.
I recommend the President-in-Office to follow the example of the enlargement of the euro area, and that of the discussions on enlargement of the last six months.
When we say that Nice is not enough, we must make it clear that, before we embark on the next major enlargement – namely the accession of Croatia – we need a new constitutional treaty.
Finally, I would ask the President-in-Office of the Council to ensure that results are achieved with regard to the Services Directive, the Working Time Directive and the Television without Frontiers Directive, and also regarding cross-border payments. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech I will deal with three points from your speech and add a challenge.
Firstly, I would like to welcome the fact that the Finnish Government, on taking over the Presidency, has stood by its word and ratified the Constitution, which has now been supported by the majority of the States and people of Europe.
Secondly, with regard to the issue of security and the fight against terrorism, I would like to thank you for the support that you and other members of the European Council gave us at the beginning of the process of overcoming violence and achieving peace in my country, Spain.
Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, last week in Geneva I had the opportunity to meet Mrs Lehtomäki, Minister for External Trade and Development, at the negotiations of the Doha Development Round.
Prime Minister, I know this is a European not a Finnish project, but you are particularly well placed with your former President, Mr Ahtisaari, involved in the status talks on Kosovo and your former assistant, Olli Rehn, as the Commissioner for Enlargement.
Secondly, the EU is dysfunctional in the area of justice, home affairs and human rights.
Some of your priorities strike us as essential, including the issue of Russia and energy.
The Europe of results is closely associated with growth and employment.
What is currently in place is not working and will be a further disappointment for our citizens.
Lastly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I feel the period of reflection on Europe in 2020 that you have suggested is most welcome.
We have to start today to think about the Europe that we want in the future, and it is in this pragmatic, open and, hopefully, transparent vein that I have faith in this Finnish Presidency.
I hope that at the end of the Presidency I can come here with words of congratulation for you. &#160;&#160; – I shall not be going on the attack.
You said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we are living in a time of challenges, such as globalisation, climate and demographic challenges, and that we must look to the future with courage.
The Lisbon Strategy will help us to meet these challenges and to realise the knowledge triangle of which Mr Barroso spoke.
Finland is a successful example of economic competitiveness based on knowledge and innovation.
It is a shining example of modernisation and progress.
The Finnish Presidency is therefore in an excellent position, and has a major responsibility, to provide impetus to the Lisbon Agenda.
My second question concerns the policy on equality between men and women.
This is clearly highlighted by the debate on the service directive or Lithuania's membership of the euro area, which provides a clear indication of the current uncertainties and, unfortunately, the distrust shown towards new members, as well as the application of double standards.
The European Union's recent expansion, combined with current events, highlight how important it is to strengthen a common Europe's basic democratic values.
This is why progress must be made in the planned European Human Rights Agency's activities during the Finnish Presidency.
Finland, which pursues an exemplary minorities policy, must show us the way on this matter.
I also think it good that the Presidency has struck a balance between, on the one hand, flexibility and, on the other, social protection or security in the midst of change.
At the same time, such agencies are growing in importance all around Europe.
We have responded to it, but it has been blocked by the Council.
It is now time for the proposal to be unblocked so that we might obtain an agreement and a framework concerning these agencies.
This is also about achieving a balance between health and safety – no unduly long working hours – and, at the same time, flexibility.
I look forward to solutions in these areas and also share Mr&#160;Rasmussen’s view that solutions must be sought in cooperation with both sides of industry. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Vanhanen, ladies and gentlemen, .
The President will have our support.
Translating words into action on the matter of the Constitution and further engagement in the matter of EU enlargement are key issues at a time when the EU is in the throes of an identity and leadership crisis.
The issue of diversifying energy sources and supply lines is extremely important for the security of Europe’s energy supplies.
The European Union must establish a joint and uniform standpoint on the issue of oil and gas supplies.
Europe must become politically and financially involved in projects looking for new sources of energy and conduct a joint policy, based on solidarity, towards suppliers.
It will also be important to raise the issue of Belarus at international forums and in discussions with Russia.
I hope that the Finnish Presidency will bring us, in the end, the same feeling of freshness and relaxation as one gets after spending an hour or two in a Finnish sauna. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Finnish Presidency will not just be a transitional presidency, but a key presidency from the viewpoint of the EU’s most important strategy, the growth and jobs strategy.
This will decide the future of Europe, but you have to start somewhere.
A common position of the European Council is needed as early as July to allow Parliament to start work on the second reading in September.
However, what is important as well as the 7th Framework Programme is funding for research and innovation from national budgets.
A decision on the EIT is an important task for the Finnish Presidency.
Mr&#160;Vanhanen has expressed the desire to conclude the Services Directive at second reading in autumn.
I am confident that it will prove possible to reach a compromise on the Services Directive under the Finnish Presidency.
This is an expression of the common will to make a commitment to the community of values for the public.
After all, that is what we want to achieve – and Mr&#160;Vanhanen expressed this very clearly in his speech: we want to develop the community of values, determine Europe’s future and ensure not only that we have a free internal market, including for services, but also that there is respect for citizens’ rights, labour law, social legislation, consumer protection and patient protection.
That is what we want to achieve, and it is also the way to really ensure that citizens say ‘yes’ to Europe in future.
The matter of prime importance is the Constitution for Europe, and that is the best present that Mr&#160;Vanhanen could give himself on the 100th anniversary of the right to vote in Finland. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, Finland is the first Council Presidency since the enlargement of the European Union on 1&#160;May&#160;2004 to hail from the shores of the Baltic Sea, which the enlargement by eight countries has of course made a .
The Finnish Presidency is therefore in a position to develop strategic dimensions that are also connected with the Northern Dimension, as there is also a non-Member State bordering on the Baltic Sea, namely Russia.
Finland’s experience makes it particularly well placed to develop relations in this region that could be extremely constructive, and that also include issues such as security of energy supply.
My second point is that the Finnish Presidency, in cooperation with the Commission, must make at least the first attempts to achieve a new balance between enlargement and the European Union’s capacity to cope with this.
We must hold out the prospect of EU membership to many countries, but this cannot always mean full membership.
We must find other ways – and, in the Barroso paper, both the European Council and the Commission declared their intention to take essential initiatives in this matter.
That is why an enlarged EU renders it particularly necessary to take the approach of a constitutional treaty.
I am obliged to the President-in-Office of the Council for committing himself to the ratification of this Constitutional Treaty.
I think I can even say that this should be the position of all the Community institutions, in order to enable the Constitutional Treaty – with regard to which we need to be much more imaginative – to enter into force in&#160;2009.
Cherry-picking will be of no help to us here, as it would destroy the approach we have to take of explaining to the public in persuasive terms why we need a constitutional treaty – which gives it more rights and brings greater transparency.
That is why this Constitutional Treaty is so important. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Vanhanen, ladies and gentlemen, you, Mr&#160;Vanhanen, like the President of the Barroso Commission, often referred in your speech to the need to give a boost to the Europe of results in order to regain the citizens' trust, naturally without pitting this Europe against the Europe of values and of the Constitution.
For this reason, I very much welcomed the fact that you have included among the priorities of your Presidency the conclusion of the legislative process on REACH and that you have done so by including it in the ‘competitiveness’ chapter.
From this perspective, both the Council and Parliament have done an excellent job over the years of work that we have behind us, because they have reconciled their positions to a great extent and have made this instrument much more usable, and have done so, too, in an effort to boost innovation.
I am sure that, under your Presidency, an agreement at second reading will be possible.
I, on the other hand, am willing to make progress and I am sure that you will be too. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Vanhanen, Mr&#160;Barroso, as a representative of Sweden, which is not only a neighbouring country but also a sister country, I should like to say that the prospect of the Finnish Presidency fills me with pride and high hopes.
We became members of the European Union at the same time and are still counted as being among the new Member States, with all the freshness of approach that that can bring with it.
Finland is also an example for those of us who expect a lot from your Presidency.
I am thinking of Finnish energy policy, in which you can combine increased competitiveness and reduced dependency on surrounding countries with greater attention to the environment and to the Kyoto objectives.
I am thinking of Finland’s unique ability to handle relations with Russia, giving this Presidency an opportunity to lay the basis for a sound policy on Russia for the whole of the European Union.
I am thinking of our experiences of enlargement, which oblige Finland resolutely and single-mindedly to take the issue of continued enlargement forward, with not only clear demands being made but also a clear objective pursued, partly with a view to its being possible for Turkey to become a member of the EU.
With characteristic openness and single-mindedness, Finland should also, of course, ensure that it turns the European Union into a form of cooperation that is open, transparent and easily accessible to its citizens.
High demands are being made because a clear example has been set. &#160;&#160; Mr President, many in this House are of the opinion that the Union’s credibility in the eyes of the people needs improving.
For that reason, Finland, during its Presidency, wants to see confidence-inspiring action which has importance for people’s everyday lives.
The people have a right to expect cross-border cooperation to be implemented in all aspects of life, including, for example, the fight against crime, and not just the internal market.
Criminals move freely from one country to another and network across national borders.
It must also help to properly manage migratory flows, including effectively fighting illegal immigration.
This is a dramatic and topical issue in my country – you have mentioned the case of the Canary Islands – and in other countries of Southern Europe.
I therefore hope that during this six-month period this problem will be treated as a priority, and not just Russia and energy.
The Tampere European Council represented an historic milestone in the construction of the area of freedom, security and justice.
Mr President, the conclusions of the Seville and Thessaloniki European Councils stated that the issue of migratory flows should start to occupy a prominent place in the European Union’s relations with third countries.
The Union must demand that countries of origin and transit cooperate closely in the fight against the drama of illegal immigration and in the ordered management of these flows.
There are things to do in our countries as well, including putting an end to unilateral legalisation measures and improving the material and human resources at our external borders.
This is the common objective that we all share and I trust that the report that the Commission will present at the beginning of the autumn will confirm that date. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Prime Minister, Mr President of the Commission, I wish to make three points.
The Presidency needs three things to succeed.
The Finns have once again prepared themselves admirably.
The Finnish Presidency will once again be an excellent, objective one.
We also need a little luck with the agenda and I think we have some.
I will make the third and final point in English in order to get it across: it has to do with competitiveness and football.
In the World Cup the more competitive you are in football, perhaps you are slightly less competitive in the economy; the more competitive you are in the economy, the less competitive you are in football.
My proposal to Prime Minister Vanhanen for Euro 2008 is: please keep the Finnish economy competitive and push our team through to Euro 2008 as well.
Those two things can go hand in hand.
I tend to agree with many of your assessments and opinions regarding my speech and my style of presentation.
Nevertheless, this debate has showed that there are such passionate views on many of these European issues that perhaps it is going to take a cool head to reconcile them all.
You sit in the European Parliament for five years.
For the Council, the long-term aspect has to be established through mutual cooperation between the presidencies, because we need continuity.
We need the involvement of everyone in next spring’s 50-year anniversary festivities and declaration, and I have welcomed those ideas that have been put forward here in this part-session.
To his comments on the need for enlargement and a new treaty I reply that there is not the slightest conflict of opinion between Commission President Barroso and myself.
It occupies a position of importance in our programme and I mentioned it.
It is one path towards European success in global competition in the future.
We also have the right to express our views on it and we do so with reference to our own constitution and the consideration of matters and ratification procedures which it establishes.
Mr&#160;Crowley made special mention of new sources of energy, and I fully agree with what he said in his speech.
That is exactly what Europe needs, as with a lot of other things which are vitally necessary in internal and legal affairs.
We need common standards and common regulations, and we need common action very much along the same lines.
We need both cooperation between our countries and a clear mandate for the European Union.
Our reply is that energy policy should not be used as a weapon in global policy.
On the contrary, the EU line should be that energy policy is a normal part of business.
The energy policy between the EU and Russia in particular is part of a strategic partnership.
This partnership can serve to improve both the EU’s and Russia’s success globally.
Furthermore, everything that was said on the issue of climate change in the debate, including what Mrs&#160;Hassi said, will be taken into consideration.
As I said in my speech, they relate to both the effects on our competitiveness and the environment and the effects on social welfare.
Mr&#160;Pflüger described Finland as neutral.
He criticised the fact that we are leading the Union into military ventures and mentioned, by way of example, the operation we have begun in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Mr&#160;Rasmussen mentioned the extraordinary social summit which we are holding and the fact that in choosing between flexibility and security the people need to feel that they have security.
Finally in this regard, I will address Mrs&#160;Estrela’s question on equality.
Similarly, during our Presidency we will focus attention on such issues as the trafficking of, and violence against, women.
Now for the last 11 years, on the other hand, we have been part of the same community within the framework of the Union and we enjoy a very close partnership.
Hopefully there is something symbolic about the fact that Finland, the northernmost country in the Union, has wanted even to send a border patrol and a surveillance aircraft to the Canary islands to help and demonstrate solidarity, and show that the problems that we have in different parts of Europe, even with regard to illegal immigration, are shared by all of us.
Our vision of a Europe supporting real projects is very much built on the idea that we need to strengthen the conditions needed to create a Europe with a dimension of social cohesion and justice, a Europe with a political vision, a Europe that is willing to use its weight, to exert its influence and to promote its values throughout the world.
That is why we think it is important to follow these two paths at the same time.
To respond to the question I was asked regarding the link between enlargement and constitutional reform, I have said many times that Nice is not enough.
In an enlarged Europe – and we are already an enlarged Europe – we need to reform the institutions to make them more effective and more democratic, and to improve the coherency of Europe's actions in the world.
In addition, the Constitutional Treaty negotiated between the Member States was already designed for the Europe of 25, which gives added strength to the idea that a Europe of 27 or more Member States will need institutional reform.
With regard to the specific priorities of this Presidency, I would like to stress something that emerged very clearly from the debate: the importance attached to innovation.
As several of you emphasised here today, Europe has many excellent universities and research institutions, but it lacks the capacity to translate all this activity into more concrete results for the economy and for the competitiveness of our continent.
Finland can use its considerable experience and its specific authority to help us to produce concrete results.
Another field in which our actions are going to be judged over the next six months is that of freedom, security and justice.
There is, of course, an intergovernmental dimension – we could do more in terms of cooperation between the governments – but we also need a Community dimension in certain domains, such as the management of both legal and illegal immigration.
It is clear, in these circumstances, that we cannot separate legal and illegal immigration, and that we need a European approach in this area.
I think that, on this matter, all of us – the Finnish Presidency, the Member States and us – are going to be judged at the end of these six months on our willingness to produce, on the basis of the existing treaties, better results in terms of security and justice, including, of course, when it comes to immigration.
Another issue that Parliament regards as extremely important, and that is also a priority for the Finnish Presidency, is energy, and, in this field, we must make ourselves quite clear, particularly with regard to relations with Russia.
First of all, we are in favour of a constructive partnership with Russia with regard to energy, but, as was clear from the strategic paper prepared by the Commission, we do not simply propose to develop good relations with Russia, but also to diversify.
The solution to Europe's energy problems is diversification: diversification of the country of origin, the country of supply and the country of transit, and also diversification of our sources of energy, in particular by increasing investment in renewable energy.
So, the solution for energy is to diversify, and not to lock ourselves into a relationship with a single partner, however important that partner may be.
That is the precondition for developing a special partnership with a country with which we do, of course, want to build a relationship, a country that also wants to build a relationship with us.
It is true that we, the European Parliament and the Commission, have a five-year mandate, and that the various Presidencies each have a specific purpose, but there is sometimes a problem of continuity over time, as was also identified during the negotiations regarding the constitutional treaty.
Some of you gave in to the temptation to use the football World Cup to show that we can, in this field too, be proud of our results, but I think, as you have stressed, that, when it comes to the economy, competitiveness, our competition-based model and our values, we can and must produce more results.
I am sure that we will be able to do so during the Finnish Presidency. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; – Despite a slight Nordic twist here and there, the focus of the Finnish Presidency emphasises the old, recurring themes of the EU, with the accent placed on completing the internal market, liberalising the market for services, competition, the well-trodden path of the Bolkestein Directive; in other words, the priorities of the employers’ organisations, with UNICE at the helm.
We expect very little from this Presidency and are not prepared to give it the benefit of the doubt, as we are opposed to most of its policies. &#160;&#160; During its period the Austrian Presidency has faced some real challenges, now Helsinki has to face some of these aspects too.
One which is deservedly prominent among them is the future of the Constitutional Treaty, which requires more consultation and a higher profile.
Therefore, I greatly applaud the Finnish Presidency's ambition to bring about an EU which supports cooperation within its institutions and communicates more effectively with its citizens.
I also agree with regulating national veto rights in order to make implementation more effective.
I support Helsinki's policy on human rights, which highlights the need to adopt a united approach to defending human and basic civil liberties.
I feel it is important to adopt a common approach to preventing illegal immigration, especially the trafficking in human beings and worker exploitation.
As the situation in the region is still very serious, I would like, in this first speech of mine in the European Parliament, to focus on expressing the views of the European Union on the prevailing crisis.
Right at the start I want to say that yesterday in Helsinki the Finnish Foreign Affairs Minister, Erkki Tuomioja, discussed the situation in the region with Israeli Foreign Affairs Minister Livni.
The EU Special Representative, Marc Otte, has also been in the region this week and he has been in contact with various parties.
The Palestinian administration must also bring to an end the continued onslaught of Kassam rockets on Israel from Gaza.
Israel, for its part, must cease its military operation.
This did not just result in problems of the supply of electric power but also water supply and sewerage.
A speedy return to this path of maintaining contact and negotiations is very important.
It is only the path of negotiation that can lead to a permanent and lasting peace.
Although the chances of initiating a peace process once again seem very slight in the prevailing circumstances, the idea of a two-state model must be kept alive.
In its statement last week, the European Union strongly condemned these acts, and we have just heard what the President-in-Office of the Council has said.
All parties must abstain from any actions that are in violation of international law and we must insist that the Palestinian leadership do all in its power to end violence and terrorist activities.
The European Union has called for the immediate and unconditional release of Corporal Gilad Shalit.
But responsible politicians cannot give in to frustration.
The principal aim of my visit then was to bring Israel and President Abbas up to speed with the European Council and the Quartet decisions on a temporary international mechanism.
The mechanism is designed to provide immediate relief to the Palestinian people and to ensure that basic services are provided.
Discussions were positive, but there is no doubt that events in Gaza and the West Bank have greatly complicated this effort.
I am very grateful for the support of the European Parliament in this difficult endeavour and I am especially grateful for the many very valuable exchanges of views I was able to have with the committee chairmen and leaders in my discussions with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at the forefront in setting up this mechanism.
It is our collective responsibility as Europeans to help the Palestinians and to give peace a chance.
Donors cannot be a substitute for the responsibilities of the Palestinian Government, which must take real steps to comply with the Quartet’s principles and end the violence that threatens the lives of Israelis and Palestinians alike.
The events of recent days have undermined a fragile process that has just begun with the meeting of President Abbas and Prime Minister Olmert in Amman.
It remains to be seen whether this tentative agreement for a government of national unity will produce a leadership better able to meet its responsibilities.
The Palestinian Government must ultimately commit itself to renouncing violence, to recognising Israel and to respecting previous agreements as set out by the Quartet.
However, the other party must also make a move.
On the other hand, however, there have been occurrences that further detract from the credibility of President Abbas, and so it is increasingly difficult for us to find points of contact.
It is hard to say who was originally right or wrong, because the circle keeps turning.
Our conditions must be Israel’s right to exist as a state, and a viable Palestinian state.
Gaza has become a prison in which an entire population is being collectively punished.
The international community had finally come to an agreement to ensure that the Palestinians received the aid they needed to survive via the European Union, but all of that is now pointless since Gaza is practically isolated and nothing is getting through to an exhausted and humiliated population.
Indeed, if we compare the current situation with the way things were, say, in January of this year, they have only taken a turn for the worse.
The arms truce, which Hamas observed, has come to an end; the number of prisoners on both sides is on the up; violence perpetrated against citizens has increased; Gaza has become a prison for its residents and the humanitarian situation is tragic.
That is why I should like to start, on behalf of my group, by pledging our full support, both to the Finnish Presidency, you, Mrs Lehtomäki, your Prime Minister, your Minister for Foreign Affairs – whilst also congratulating you on the efforts that have already been made – and also to you, Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner.
If I can venture drawing the political lesson from your words, what strikes me as paramount from what you have said – and you seem to be in agreement – is that negotiations and diplomacy are the only way-out.
That appears to me as a clear message in the direction of those who at the moment say that they refuse all contact with the other party.
We support you in this, and needless to say, we remain faithful to the principles of the Quartet, the recognition of Israel’s right of existence, the renunciation of violence by Hamas, as well as respect for previous treaties.
It is not only that, contrary to both international law and humanitarian principle, the Israeli Government has destroyed electricity plants and water distribution networks: it has kidnapped and arrested 64 elected representatives.
At the same time we condemn the kidnapping of the captured Israeli soldier and we call for his swift and safe release.
But let us not forget, either, the 9&#160;600 Palestinian political prisoners, over half of whom are being detained without trial, nearly 400 of whom are under the age of 18.
That event was the agreement of Hamas and Fatah over the so-called prisoners’ document.
In recent weeks the international community has called upon Hamas to change and now, as it gradually begins to do so, we should recognise that fact, give credit for that fact and alter our own political response accordingly.
In agreeing that national conciliation document, Hamas has demonstrated that it supports the formation of a government of national coalition, that it supports an independent Palestinian state, within the 1967 borders, and that it is taking the first steps towards recognising Israel.
The Council must reaffirm its conviction, as it has done, that the negotiated two-state solution is the only one that will bring peace and security, but that means that the EU itself must live up to its responsibilities.
Together with the Quartet it must put forward concrete proposals about what it plans to do to help bring about that settled and peaceful resolution. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, we are calling for the release of Corporal Gilad&#160;Shalit and we are calling for the release of 9&#160;000 Palestinian prisoners&#160;–&#160;of whom 128 are women, 300 are adolescents and 900 are being detained without trial.
The Israeli army’s offensive on Gaza and the unprecedented seizure of a third of the Palestinian Ministers, of the President of Parliament and of many Hamas Members of Parliament, have nothing really to do with the desire to free that soldier.
I think that it is only right to begin with the words of the Pope, who has launched an appeal for the release of all of the kidnap victims and for negotiations to be held between Israelis and Palestinians, with the decisive contribution of the international community, and especially of Europe, in favour of a restoration of peace.
We welcomed the agreement between Fatah and Hamas on the prisoners’ document, which implicitly acknowledges Israel’s existence, but much more progress needs to be made, starting with the release of the Israeli soldier.
Europe has done well to launch an immediate appeal, with one voice, for moderation and peace, but more courage and more determination are required.
The international community must genuinely take the lead and assume full responsibility for becoming the guarantor of peace in the Middle East, by putting a stop to the violence and bringing Israelis and Palestinians back to the negotiating table.
To conclude, I should like once again to cite the Pope, who has reaffirmed Israel's legitimate right to exist, in peace, but who has subsequently appealed for the international community to genuinely support the people of Palestine so that they can overcome the precarious conditions in which they are living and can build a future for themselves, with the ultimate aim of building an actual State.
A second question to the Council and Commission concerns the functioning of European monitoring on the border between Egypt and Gaza at Rafah.
A prominent Israeli analyst has described this EU mission as a complete failure.
It is the gravest situation in the region since 2000, or even since 1967.
Without wishing to go into a detailed analysis of the most recent events, and without wishing to play the role of a judge passing sentence or of a jury deciding who is at fault, I need to say that the lack of stability in this region is a real threat to peace and order throughout the world, and therefore international intervention is required.
We must do everything to give a chance to the forces of moderation in both countries, to those who choose the difficult path of dialogue, rather than those who choose the easy path of violence. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Commissioner very rightly mentioned the agreement between President Abbas and the Hamas government on the basis of the proposal by the prisoners, which has been overshadowed by recent developments.
Each time there is a positive development towards peace, some extremist elements make sure they undermine it by an action such as the ambush in which two soldiers died and one was abducted.
We condemn any terrorist acts and we demand the release of the Israeli soldier.
A State acting in that way is no better than a terrorist organisation.
If the voices of reason are speaking out in Israel to condemn these crimes, why is the Council struck down dumb?
The European Union, which spent EUR&#160;3&#160;000&#160;000 on observing the Palestinian elections, has been slow in reacting to the kidnapping of 64 members of the government and of the democratically-elected legislative Council, and is not calling for their immediate release.
Yes, I condemn the firing of Kassam rockets, yes, I want to see the release of the soldier Gilad, but I also want to see the release of the 339 Palestinian children held in Israeli prisons.
Yet is it still our ambition to help the Palestinian State to build its democracy?
That is what you get when you drop shells on a busy street in Gaza.
The Israeli Prime Minister says that the lives of Israelis are more important than those of Palestinians.
We make the Palestinians jump through hoops, but we let the Israelis get away with bloody murder. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last week the whole Parliament was treated to a very grand press release from Mr Adamos Adamou, MEP.
Fortunately, a Google news search shows that there has been no response to the suggestion at all.
Regrettably, the joint Hamas declaration with Fatah of 27 June, allegedly implicitly recognising Israel, reportedly remains an ambiguous document and Hamas does not clearly renounce violence.
In the past, millions of euros of our taxpayers’ money have been donated in aid to the Palestinian Authority with little to show for it in terms of securing a lasting peace as envisaged in Oslo in 1993.
I personally, although accepting the democratic victory of Hamas – after all, Hitler was also elected democratically – continue to regard it as a banned terrorist organisation, as does the European Union and the USA, and therefore would never countenance supporting any funds for it until it convincingly changes its charter and terrorist ideology.
The recent Passover suicide bombing in Tel Aviv was publicly supported by the Hamas PA Government, which is an outrage.
Nevertheless, the European Union, through the Quartet, must remain committed to lasting peace in the Middle East with a two-state solution whereby a viable, democratic Palestinian State can live in peace and security side by side with Israel within internationally recognised borders.
In fact, Hamas took the side of those who spread violence and terror.
It happened just after the new Israeli Government was sworn in, and to each action there is a reaction.
Today’s scenarios have not been scripted by the Prime Minister of Israel and the President of the Palestinian Authority, who have attempted to keep the dialogue open, but by the Iranian President and Hamas extremists brought in from Damascus and terrorists of all shapes and sizes.
I appeal to the Council and Commission to bring greater pressure to bear on both sides in this conflict, but particularly on the Palestinian Authority.
One constant concern is the possibility of the conflict in the region undergoing a sort of ‘iraqisation’: kidnappings and executions of hostages, such as that of 18-year-old Eliahou&#160;Asheri, which hardly anybody has mentioned, who was shot in the head because he was hitch-hiking in Jerusalem.
France and Egypt are currently in the best position to find a solution which I hope will be imminent for Gilad Shalit and for the Palestinian people.
I would like to reassure Mr Davies by stressing here that, for each of us in this House, a Palestinian life is worth as much as an Israeli life.
Our dearest wish – which is unfortunately little more than a dream – is to see Europe work together on this issue in order to achieve a return to the negotiation table. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe that everything has already been said about the conflict and its origins.
I believe that the situation is much worse today than a year ago, because we no longer know whom to help and how.
Then there are also the people, the ordinary citizens, whom we do not know how to help.
The Council of Ministers’ decision to cut aid and to endanger the Palestinian people was a serious mistake.
Not only has this policy of using the humanitarian crisis for the purposes of blackmail had no positive effect whatsoever, but it has actually led to suffering.
We are once again in a cycle of violence in which wrong is clearly being done by both sides; rockets fired into Israel, disproportionate reprisals by the Israeli army, the seizing of the soldier Shalit, who of course must be released, as everybody here has said.
Furthermore, as President Brok said, the Quartet must allow intervention on the ground.
Moreover, as the Minister responsible for development cooperation, I think that the deteriorating humanitarian situation is especially serious, as I said in my opening speech, considering that the situation was not very good even before this latest phase of the crisis.
This conflict is a huge challenge for the European Union, and the Council is firmly committed to supporting every means to find a solution to it.
As I see it, the position taken is a very balanced one, unlike what has been suggested in some of the speeches here.
The Council wishes to stress that, to ease the crisis, both sides must take the necessary adequate action.
It is a vicious circle.
It is true that the Syrian part of Hamas has a great responsibility here.
However, the Israeli military incursion into the Gaza Strip and the destruction of the civilian infrastructure there punishes Palestinians collectively and puts civilian lives at risk.
Electricity and water supplies must now be restored quickly and with Israeli assistance.
The arrest of elected law-makers threatens the institutions of the Palestinian Authority that are needed for the creation of an independent, democratic and viable Palestinian State.
We have reiterated our commitment to a negotiated, comprehensive, just and lasting settlement in the Middle East.
The common goal of the G8 remains the creation of a viable, democratic and sovereign Israel and Palestine living in peace and security.
We want to achieve that and therefore we want to continue our efforts, even at the most difficult times. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; – How much more must the Palestinian people suffer, how many more children must be killed before the international community finally wakes up and demands that Israel stop the abominable crimes which it is committing every day?
We condemn the arrest of ministers of the legal and democratically elected Palestinian Government and our fellow parliamentarians.
Israel must stop the undeclared war and the blocking of humanitarian aid and must restore the infrastructure it has destroyed.
The Quartet must immediately apply the temporary aid mechanism to the Palestinians.
The international community, the ΕU and the Quartet must insist on returning to the negotiating table and must demand respect for the roadmap by the Israeli Government and respect for all the agreements signed on the promotion and safeguarding of peace by both sides. &#160;&#160; – Faced with the upsurge of Israel’s criminal onslaught against the Palestinian people and its institutions, the EU has once again held Israel and the Palestinians jointly responsible for the situation in a statement by the Council Presidency.
The EU has not issued a single word in condemnation of the current Israeli military aggression, which judging by its extent appears to have been a long time in the pipeline, with Israel simply waiting for an excuse.
This criminal military action forms part of a long-planned Israeli strategy to destroy the Palestinian Authority, its institutions and its structures, including those that meet the people’s most basic needs.
Israel’s strategy is to annexe occupied territories – as evidenced by the building of the wall – and to undermine the conditions required for building a sovereign, independent and viable Palestinian state.
This is why solidarity is needed towards the PLO and the Palestinian people. &#160;&#160; The situation in Palestine is critical.
However, his abduction should not be used by Israel as an excuse for extreme action in Gaza and the West Bank.
A clear statement from both sides that a negotiated two-state solution is the only viable future for the region would go a long way to improving the present situation. &#160;&#160; Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
This morning’s debate was slightly prolonged because of the Finnish Prime Minister’s speech, which lasted 45 minutes.
These inaccuracies are found in Amendments&#160;20, 22 and 24(1).
Based on this morning’s debate, I expect the Commission to raise the issues of human rights and the environmental situation in the Urals in relation to the Mayak and Chelyabinsk reprocessing plants with President Putin on site. &#160;&#160; The rapporteur could have indicated that he wanted the Commission to reply, but that was not the case.
The report proposes that, in the last quarter of the year, the Council Presidency draw up a list of the international events planned for the following year, along with the assistance that will be required.
The report also proposes that the Presidency produce a review of the assistance provided during the previous year, containing a list of the problems and difficulties experienced by the Member States and recommendations as to how such difficulties can be resolved.
The necessary measures must be taken to ensure that security and law and order are maintained during international events attended by large numbers of people from more than one Member State, and that illegal acts may be prevented and combated. &#160;&#160; We are issuing our opinion today on a proposal for a decision on strengthening cross-border police cooperation with regard to meetings attended by large numbers of people from more than one Member State, including large international sporting events (the football World Cup, the Olympics, cycling tours etc.), but also religious events, State visits or international political meetings or summits.
During events: cross-border cooperation and assistance amongst national police forces.
The recent attempts to prevent people from taking part in international events and demonstrations taking place for example alongside European summits, in protest at neoliberal and militarist policies or expressing solidarity with people fighting against imperialism, are very fresh in the mind.
I especially welcome the idea of adding an unanticipated event attended by large numbers of people from more than one Member State to the list submitted to the Council Presidency during the previous year.
This proposal is solely aimed at improving cooperation between the different Member States in this area by establishing a uniform, transparent and effective framework for the exchange of information.
It is primarily aimed at maintaining law and order and security and preventing and combating criminal offences during international events attended by large numbers of people from more than one Member State.
On the other hand, we now have a juxtaposition of multiple forms of police cooperation: Schengen, Europol, Eurodac, CIS, many forms of bilateral cooperation and now the Prüm Convention, too.
In any case, we must also ensure that sufficient attention is paid to the protection of personal data. &#160;&#160; – New measures to strike at the grassroots struggle at national and European level are proposed in the report on the strengthening of cross-border police cooperation at international EU events.
It insultingly provides for a 'calendar of international events' to be held every year in order to programme and organise cooperation between the repressive mechanisms of the ΕU used to combat grassroots movements.
The people of Europe have first-hand knowledge of the murderous action of the EU's repressive mechanisms in Gothenburg, in Genoa and in other countries.
The Greek Communist Party voted against the report.
It will help to develop a movement of resistance from the working-class and grassroots movement at national and European level to defend grassroots freedoms.
This derogation is due to expire on 31 December 2006, and in a Communication from the Commission to the Council on 30 June 2006, the Commission indicated it did not believe an extension to this derogation to be justified.
The knock-on effects could seriously damage the 30 000 people employed in the boat industry, the 70 000 people whose jobs are supported by marine tourism and the GBP 700 million spent by boaters every year.
The UK requires a final five-year extension to address these issues. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to speak about the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of technical requirements and administrative procedures in the field of civil aviation.
This regulation provides for a range of technical provisions that will have a far-reaching impact on safety, which in general terms is to be welcomed.
Some regulations on emissions, flight time limitations and administration are inadequate, however, and should be viewed in the broader context.
Any moves towards further taxation on fuel or services would limit free competition among new airlines and airports.
These amendments were as follows: - No provision in the present regulation can be used or invoked, within the framework of relations between the Member States, to undermine the rights, and the salaries, working conditions, qualifications and training of the various strata of civil aviation personnel; - a reduction in the flight duty period – a maximum of 160 hours in a period of 28 consecutive days, distributed as evenly as possible throughout this period and a maximum of 40 hours in a seven-day period, with two rest days – so that the flight and cabin crew are able to guarantee safety. - certification of qualified cabin crew, with an appropriate, valid licence that is accepted by the relevant authority, which certifies that the person concerned has the appropriate qualifications and skills to carry out the duties allocated to them.
I take this amendment to be, among other things, an indication of the very particular need on the part of all parties for safety in the air.
Given the increased frequency of flights and the huge number of passengers flying nowadays, harmonisation of safety standards at the highest, scientifically supported safety level is imperative, in order to create a level playing field within the enlarged EU.
On that basis, I support a medical and scientific evaluation of the impact of such a law two years after this legislation comes into force.
I believe that this report clearly stipulates that this regulation can in no way constitute a legal basis to watering down existing safety protection in Member States.
Nuclear waste is transported the length and breadth of Europe in convoys that cost the taxpayer millions, entail a high risk of accidents, and are an ideal target for terrorist attacks.
The proposed directive focuses only on Member States who are active participants in the production of nuclear energy.
I agree with the rapporteur’s proposal for Europe to enhance its performance via the creation, sharing and financing of knowledge.
Major obstacles continue to prevent agents in the sector from working together both within and outside national borders.
However, the EU still continues to lag behind the US and Japan.
I welcome this report, which attempts to improve the EU’s performance in three main areas.
Secondly, Europe is failing to share its knowledge.
The idea that research and innovation should play a central role in the new economic model currently lacking in Europe strikes me as crucial.
Europe has failed to respond adequately to the evidence that technology and investment in material and human resources in the area of research and innovation are vital components in development and growth, particularly given the current state of affairs in the world economy.
This point, which is expressed in the resolution before us, along with a number of other proposals – for example on redefining research and innovation strategies – justifies my vote in favour.
The SMEs play a key role in this context in that they act as a conduit between the universities and the business sector.
The main factors standing in the way of meeting the goals set by the Lisbon Strategy are well known: poor performance by the Member States, fragmentation of the labour markets, inefficient, inadequate use of human resources and reduced mobility of Europe’s workforce.
Accordingly, I regret the fact that the Member States are not lending the necessary political and financial support to the creation of a flexible workforce capable of adapting to the new realities of the labour markets, and that they do not accord their researchers the prestige they deserve.
On the one hand, it gives prominence to negative aspects, including the emphasis on issues of competitiveness and competition, and on measures aimed at industrial restructuring and modernisation, in the face of ‘fierce international competition’, the impact of which we know is terrible.
It also, on the other hand, contains proposals that we tabled in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, including the proposal to call on the Commission to refuse Community aid to companies which, after receiving such support in a Member State, transfer their manufacturing operations to another country without completely fulfilling the agreements entered into with the Member State concerned.
Like the rapporteur, I am in favour of developing a coherent, European-level industrial policy that will enable us to meet the challenges of globalisation head on.
Although the EU is an economy essentially based on the services sector, it remains an industrial power on the world stage.
It therefore makes perfect sense to develop European-level industrial competitiveness strategies, and to promote European entrepreneurship and corporate social responsibility.
I am convinced that the future of European manufacturing lies in increasing the added value and the quality of products, and in a qualified, flexible workforce.
I also welcome this report as it highlights the importance of increasing the regional concentration of manufacturing.
The European Parliament has today once again proved its sensitivity to cultural matters, because the cultural and religious heritage of Cyprus is not strictly speaking a Cypriot matter – it is a European matter.
The European Union embraces all the cultures of all the Member States of the Union. &#160;&#160; The next item is the interim report (A6-0213/2006) by Mr Fava, on behalf of the Temporary Committee, on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners [2006/2027(INI)]. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament constantly has to tackle a high-minded and difficult task: making its personal contribution to combating terror.
We have another equally difficult task: investigating the truth, including the truth about the abuses committed over the past few years in the name of the fight against terrorism.
When we talk of extraordinary rendition, which is the theme on which our committee has focused, we are talking about an arbitrary act that certain countries want and others accept in the name of the fight against terrorism.
We are reserving the work conclusions reached in the past few months, and those that we hope to reach over the next few months, for the concluding report; but it is now our duty to inform you of a vast and general range of offences, involving various European countries and different levels of responsibility: some have been complicit, some have covered up the illegal operations and some have simply looked the other way.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to make every effort to discover the plain truth on the facts and responsibilities, to ensure above all that these events and abuses are never repeated on European territory or to the detriment of European citizens, and I believe that this is the ultimate aim of our committee.
The issue is the implementation of fundamental rights in Europe and action against terrorism.
All action taken against terrorism must be in compliance with obligations under international law, and no compromises on these, where it concerns human rights, refugee or humanitarian issues, can be accepted in the name of action against terrorism.
With reference to the interim report under discussion, I would nevertheless like to emphasise that the Treaties do not bestow competence on the European Union in such matters as these, and national intelligence is not within the scope of application of the Treaty, because the Member States have unanimously decided to reserve the task of monitoring the work of national intelligence services for themselves.
This obviously does not mean that the Council has adopted a passive stance regarding the matters raised in the report.
On 21&#160;November the European Union Foreign Affairs Ministers discussed this information at a session of the General Affairs and External Affairs Council.
As a result of this discussion, on 29&#160;November 2005, the Foreign Affairs Minister for the country to hold the Presidency at the time, Jack Straw, wrote to US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on the European Union’s behalf, trying to discover the US Government’s views regarding these allegations.
On 5&#160;December the US Secretary of State made a detailed statement on the matter, prior to her European visit, according to which the United States considered that international agreements were binding on its own actions and that the United States respected other countries’ sovereignty and that it did not transport detained persons to countries where they would be tortured, under interrogation or otherwise.
The European Union Foreign Affairs Ministers and Secretary of State Rice discussed the matter again later on during the latter’s visit to Brussels.
Since early this year there has been intensive dialogue with the United States at various levels and in different assemblies regarding these matters.
The European Union has repeatedly asked the US Government to allow United Nations human rights reporters full access to Guantanamo Bay.
EU Foreign Affairs Ministers have stated that the European Union is still seriously concerned about Guantanamo Bay, and the topic has been discussed with the United States on more than one occasion.
As the country to hold the Presidency of the Council, Finland will naturally continue to keep alive the debate on human rights in dialogue with the United States.
From the very beginning, the European Commission has made its contribution with conviction, a fact that I believe the committee chairman, Mr&#160;Coelho, can corroborate.
It assisted and vigorously supported the request from the temporary committee to obtain the Eurocontrol data, which, as emerges from the report, have provided some of the most important evidence for identifying certain facts.
Furthermore, I have tried three times to impress on the Ministers of Home Affairs in the Member States the importance of collaborating with the European Parliament temporary committee and with the Council of Europe, in other words of ensuring that enquiries and national checks make progress in countries where this has not yet happened.
I can tell you in advance that at the next Council of Ministers on 24&#160;July, the first to be held under the Finnish Presidency, I will repeat my invitation to the Ministers of Home Affairs in the 25 Member States to continue to collaborate with the temporary Parliamentary committee.
I acknowledge and agree that the European Parliament temporary committee does not claim to be a sort of ‘European super-court’ and this is a very important factor in identifying institutional responsibilities.
However, I maintain that the items indicated in the report are useful tools that must be assessed in detail.
Some elements have already been assessed because they were already available to the many national judicial authorities involved in enquiries, some of them highly detailed, that started a long time ago.
I can tell you now that, in this respect, the Commission is ready to discuss this with the temporary committee in the next work period, since finding a European definition, for example for ‘State aircraft’, could be a step forward in this area, which, as you know, is currently insufficiently covered by national legislation.
I would have been pleased to see in this report recognition of the fact that, if today we are meeting to discuss the CIA problem, it is thanks to the US press, the US Congress and the US people and not thanks to the report writers.
It is surely not acceptable that people should be abducted from EU territory or from states that are desirous of joining our Community, flown halfway round the globe and tortured in prisons in such places as Kabul, which has been shown to be what happened to Khaled El-Masri, himself a German citizen.
The fact is that this is where the end does not justify the means, and that is what must come between us and the approach adopted by the Bush administration and the CIA.
We also find ourselves facing the question that the governments in the EU must answer, namely that as to precisely what a secret service – which is what the CIA is, albeit one from a friendly state – is permitted to do on our soil, and in what manner it may act.
I would also like to thank Mr Coelho for his assiduous and steady chairmanship.
In some Member States there is not even a definition of terrorism, so terrorists can escape conviction and imprisonment.
I hope Mr Gawronski and his friends are knocking on the doors of those national capitals which have not implemented the framework decision on terrorism.
Let us be clear: what we are saying in this report is that we have heard testimony and seen corroborating facts, such as flight logs, which attest to extraordinary renditions having taken place in Europe, and it is highly implausible that governments or their agencies had no idea what was going on.
Once allegations are no longer speculative but are shown to be credible, as is the case, then under European and international human rights instruments Member States have a positive obligation to investigate and to punish anyone responsible for human rights abuses.
I hope that in private the Presidency is saying something different to its 24 EU government colleagues than it is saying here.
I am not reproaching them, but I am accusing the Council and Member States of being guilty of creating a lot of hot air and rhetoric about the EU as a beacon of human rights without delivering the results.
I believe that this cooperation between the Council of Europe and the European Parliament points the way for future cooperation in the defence of human rights.
Most of the victims of these transfers were illegally arrested from the very outset, some of them having been abducted, and all of them were taken from one country to another in an unlawful manner.
Many of them have since disappeared.
Those victims who testified to our committee spoke of torture and other inhumane treatment.
In the final analysis, it can be said that this practice was intended to ‘outsource’ torture and make it more difficult to establish where the responsibility for the violation of human rights lay.
There are many who say that it cannot be determined with any precision how many people in total were arrested, abducted and taken to other countries, and they may be right, but, by the very same token, it is also true that we can regard enough instances in which human rights were violated as proven, and about these the report has things to say in very blunt terms.
In so doing, these states disregarded other provisions of this Convention that gave them the right to search aircraft where there were reasonable grounds for suspicion that the plane was being used for illegal purposes.
The Member States of the European Union are bound by various international treaties, in particular – as made quite plain in Article&#160;6 – by the European Convention on Human Rights.
The European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly emphasised that every state is under a positive obligation to intervene, investigate, and take legal action against the persons responsible, whenever people need to be protected from torture and other forms of inhumane treatment.
Just a few days ago, following its Guantánamo judgment, the Supreme Court of the United States told us that, between 2001 and 2003, more than half of the prisoners in Guantánamo were taken there from Afghanistan, which means that Europe was the place of transit for over two hundred prisoners, European airports were used for stopovers, and US and NATO bases in Europe were used as outposts.
We have investigated the facts in great detail and have ascertained that, as John Bellinger and Condoleezza Rice have said, US intelligence activity has been carried out with the involvement of national governments.
John Bellinger and Condoleezza Rice have explicitly stated that there has been no breach of national sovereignty.
An Italian policeman has confessed and today the deputy head of the Sismi, the Italian intelligence service, has been arrested.
The same applies to Commissioner Frattini, who should clarify this point.
Not all of these cases are blatantly breaches of international law.
The US Government interprets the Convention against Torture differently, which is its right.
The committee on this convention has not questioned this interpretation, which is backed by many years of practice, a Senate decision and Supreme Court judgments.
We should underline the key role of the fight against terrorism in world security, and the positive results of collaboration between European and US security services.
In confronting terrorism, Europe and America are sometimes forced to step into a legal void.
The American practice is closer to the traditions of military rule, which in my view is more suited to these circumstances, but which leads to legal acrobatics.
If we want to avoid such disputes and conflicts between Europe and the US, we have to add new regulations to international law.
It is no coincidence that the lines of division on this report are based not on its merits, or even on nationality, but on ideology.
It is fundamentally a division between socialists and conservatives.
In deciding to terminate the work of the Temporary Committee we will be doing a great service to the societies of our countries, and that is what I appeal for. &#160;&#160; Mr President, our interim committee has failed to pin anything on the CIA in terms of its involvement in torture or associated illegal activities here in Europe.
If the inquiry is to continue, it would be preferable if it were to be conducted by the national bodies that competent in this area. &#160;&#160; – Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr&#160;Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr&#160;Frattini for his excellent work with our committee, and I hope the Council will follow his example in the second period of our work.
This document could not be accused of not containing the kind of conclusions found in a final report.
Thirdly, I wish to point out that in the hearings, there were 70 testimonies made, 50 hours of statements given, two foreign missions undertaken – one to the United States and one to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia – and thousands of documents analysed.
As things stand, I feel that quite apart from the fact that the committee has justified its existence, illegal acts have taken place in Europe that need to be assessed in terms of their scale and the extent to which the Member States were involved.
Furthermore, control of air space and airport facilities needs to be stepped up, the democratic control of the activities of the secret services should be strengthened, as Mr&#160;Frattini said, and the activities of foreign secret services on European soil needs to be more closely monitored.
After all, we do not want this thorough, dedicated work to be mistaken for some kind of political propaganda. &#160;&#160; Mr President, 11&#160;September this year will mark the fifth anniversary of the terrorist attack against America.
A legitimate fight against terrorism goes hand-in-hand with reflection on the means used to conduct this fight, on the state of democracy, the rule of law and on civil liberties in situations where special services are given special authority and where general surveillance is carried out.
A new kind of community is arising on both sides of the Atlantic – a community of lawyers, journalists and politicians from different sides of the political scene, activists from humanitarian organisations and citizens who are against the recent infringements of human rights and political and civic freedoms by some European governments and the US Government.
Last week the Supreme Court in the USA pronounced the special military tribunals appointed by President Bush in November 2001 by way of a decree, bypassing Congress, as illegal and contrary to the Geneva Conventions and the American system of military courts.
The ruling of the Supreme Court is proof that we are not condemned to a tragic choice between security and freedom.
The Temporary Committee appointed by Parliament on 18&#160;January this year has completed the first stage of its work.
The report was based primarily on around 50 hours of hearings involving lawyers, journalists, representatives of non-governmental organisations, alleged victims of special rendition proceedings, representatives of the governments of the Member States and representatives of the European institutions.
I would also like to stress that in its interim report the committee does not once mention the name ‘Poland’, unlike Dick Marty’s report before the Council of Europe in June this year.
However, our report does assert the need to ascertain whether there is proof that secret prisons are operating in some European countries, as some journalists and bona-fide non-governmental organisations claimed in the course of the investigations.
What is particularly worrying is, as Senator Marty’s report points out, Warsaw’s unwillingness to cooperate seriously with the European institutions.
The Temporary Committee should now proceed with the rest of its 12-month mandate, during which it should make official visits to various countries, including Poland. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like first of all to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Claudio Fava, and the team from the secretariat that has supported him in his wonderful work.
Because, just like archaeologists who gradually go on digging up small items through small excavations and then put all of that information together to produce a map of a city that had been hidden and the precise whereabouts of which nobody knew, the Commission, with the invaluable support of other people, of NGOs, in cooperation with the Council of Europe etc., has managed to draw up that map, to uncover and bring to light that hidden city, which is a plan designed for the systematic violation of the fundamental rights of the citizens on the theoretical premise of protecting our fundamental rights; we should protect our rights and our security by violating the rights of others.
That is something that could not have happened without the active support or deliberate passivity of the Member States of the European Union.
That is our conclusion.
We are therefore still awaiting coherent explanations from the Council and the Member States so that we may know the truth and guarantee respect for the European Union's fundamental values, for which we are all supposed to be fighting. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to congratulate and praise the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Fava, and I would like once again to express our full support for his report's fundamental approach.
As the report stresses, it seems extraordinary to us that the governments should not have known what was happening, and I would like once again to express my surprise at certain governments’ – including mine – repeated denials of facts that CIA officials themselves have demonstrated and acknowledged.
The report’s conclusion is clear: the work we are doing is necessary and must continue.
It is true that we are neither investigators nor prosecutors; we have neither the power nor the means to carry out this action or these investigations, but we can ask the relevant question and raise important issues.
Let me put it bluntly: every government has the duty of protecting its citizens from the violation of their human rights by others; failure to do anything is a gross violation of human rights.
Mr&#160;Marty of the Council of Europe is quite right to say that it is a fundamental duty incumbent on governments to actively investigate all human rights violations that are committed on their territory or against their citizens.
They have to demonstrate that their conduct has always been correct and that they have acted in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights and the fundamental values shared throughout the EU.
That is why our committee cannot yet declare the case closed.
We must not allow governments to bury their heads in the sand, and that is true whether we are talking about the government of my own country or the government of Macedonia, a candidate country that has tried to put one over on us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I think everybody in this Parliament supports the fight against terrorism.
The strategies pursued by America in Iraq and in the broader Middle East in recent years have arguably generated a greater level of sympathy for terrorists.
I am an Irish Member of this Parliament and we in Ireland know how terrorism builds and grows and how, by making the wrong decisions, governments can strengthen terrorist organisations.
The interim report before us today points to the undeniable fact that rendition flights have taken place in Europe.
If we are going to fight terrorism, we must all work together within the law.
The committee still has much work to do and it is seeking support from Parliament to continue its work for a further six months.
I hope that Parliament will give this committee the extra time it needs to bring its work to a conclusion.
However, the American Government must implement new strategies if it is going to win the war against international terrorism.
There are so many examples of how not to do it, but it is only through enlightened policies and through those of us who believe in democracy and human rights working together that terrorism can be fought and permanently eradicated. &#160;&#160; Mr President, since the outrages of 11&#160;September 2001, the world has changed.
The fight against terrorism is a consequence of them, and human rights for terrorists should not compromise the effective protection of our families and societies.
In civilised countries verdicts are not issued without evidence, but the committee has taken upon itself to do so.
Let us forget about European anti-American bias, and let us join the real fight against terrorism. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have had 50 hours of hearings and nothing to show for it.
I sent a copy of Mr Fava’s report to a former staffer of mine, Sally McNamara, who is now the international relations director for a major Washington public policy institute, the American Legislative Exchange Council.
I hope that our rapporteur will take note of these comments.
It seeks to present unsubstantiated allegations as fact.
Whether we like it or not, the war against terror is real and it is now.
The US has taken a lead in this war.
It is unfortunate that its interim report, which we now have before us, is as yet neither even-handed nor complete.
I can live with the fact that the groups in this House attach different values to the statements made to the committee, but it is a fundamental requirement of any balanced report that it should include all statements, including those that do not tally with the committee's preconceived ideas.
Completeness demands, then, that the statements by Mr&#160;Solana and Mr&#160;de&#160;Fries at their respective hearings to the effect that they were not aware of any breach of the law on the part of any Member State, be included in the report along with the fact that no evidence has been provided, to this day, of the existence of so-called secret prisons in the European Union.
The justified interest in the investigation of the accusations that have been made must not result in a one-sided approach to the assessment and evaluation of the facts.
When Parliament and we in the Temporary Committee on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners began our work, I for one did not have very high expectations of what we could achieve, as a lot of the alleged practices had taken place quite a few years ago.
Our work has produced results aimed at making Europe safer and human rights more secure.
In this area, the expulsion from Sweden of the Egyptians Mohammed Al Zery and Ahmed Agiza following a decision by the Swedish Government have pointed to solutions of the kind we do not want to see any more of.
The CIA’s solutions are unsustainable, both in the short and the long term and for both the EU and the rest of the world.
The committee needs more time.
Mr&#160;Frattini has some interesting thoughts on the security service, necessary future controls on aviation and getting the balance right in combating terrorism. &#160;&#160; Mr President, that side of the House still seems to be very sceptical about the evidence.
The security policy we adopt here in Europe should therefore apply our own standards, our own methods and our own conditions.
Finally, I think it is essential that we, as a matter of urgency, start a parliamentary dialogue with the Americans to discuss security and human rights and the way in which we can, together, on the basis of shared values, fight the monster of terrorism. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one of the issues we are supposed to be looking at is whether the European Union and our own Member States are the good guys in this.
In terms of facts and the political consequences that we should be drawing from this, it is almost irrelevant whether there have been two or three renditions as we were told in the US by the US Administration, or whether the facts unearthed so far reveal two or three renditions, or whether we have found more.
We have been told that the law is inadequate in this new era of greater threat.
However, we also need to question whether we are using the law we have effectively and fairly in accordance with international human rights obligations.
This is another reason why we need the committee to continue. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, like Mr Dick Marty in the Council of Europe, Mr&#160;Fava has the courage to coordinate an investigation with a very clear objective: to establish the truth.
I believe that we must support and encourage this investigation so that it can carry on to its conclusion, until the truth is fully established. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the report we are dealing with today is built on assumptions and allegations the truth of which the temporary committee has no authority and no tools to verify.
Irrespective of the fact that Mr Javier Solana clearly stated to the committee that there was no evidence of the colourful stories we were being told, the report accuses EU governments both of violating human rights and of lying.
What we are really dealing with are two different concepts of the war against terror: the European Parliament model, which believes in fighting terrorism with resolutions and dialogue and, on the other side, the model of the responsible governments, which want to monitor suspected persons, control transfers of illegal funds and, where necessary, arrest terrorists before they can act.
It states that the rules of cooperation between national security services should be established at EU level, that effective parliamentary scrutiny of national intelligence services should be at European level and that the Commission should immediately legislate to harmonise laws on the surveillance of non-commercial civil aviation.
The report and the minority opinion expressed agree that some illegal detentions and transportations may have taken place.
The existing legal means are draconian enough.
While their report is blatantly ideological, ours is more political; Senator Marty’s report was based not on facts but on circumstantial evidence, but it still went much too far in accusations.
We cannot build up an indictment against whole countries based simply on conjecture, suspicion, circumstantial evidence or hunches.
This report is an element in the broader debate about relations between the EU and the USA, about boundaries for the legitimate fight against terrorism and about transatlantic cooperation.
The report cannot be separated from the political context.
If there is the will to do so, this autumn the committee will visit Poland and will be welcomed there, because Poland and the Polish people have nothing to hide. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is an astonishing report.
In it there is a yawning gap between the evidence collected and the opinions formulated by the committee.
In the report, the committee makes extremely grave accusations, for example, that in Europe ‘inadmissible violations of fundamental human rights have taken place on several occasions’.
On the other hand, it can only confirm exactly four cases of the procedure described as the illegal transfer of persons suspected of terrorism.
No evidence is provided anywhere of use of torture against the suspects, nor is any proof provided of the existence of detention centres in any country where suspects might be held – I mean within the European Union – and, in view of this, we should ask ourselves whether the four cases of rendition of terrorist suspects and several hundred flights by CIA aircraft – and they are something we knew about before the committee started its work – allow the committee to come to such radical conclusions.
I get the impression that the committee is building its own virtual view of reality, and instead of taking the occasion to give EU citizens a view of reality is for some reason, undoubtedly political, putting forward its own virtual view as though it were real, and thereby misleading the citizens.
We cannot defend our values by abandoning them and I suspect that some of the people involved in today’s debate would much rather we abandoned our values just to prove themselves right.
Illegal renditions by US agents have taken place.
Some EU Member States’ services have colluded in those renditions, either passively or actively.
The cross-referencing of witness statements and Eurocontrol records has established that some EU states have serious questions to answer and have so far refused to come clean.
This inquiry must therefore continue.
Parliamentary investigations are necessary, particularly in countries like my own, Ireland, where it has been established that 50 CIA flights have landed at Irish airports and that the aircraft used to transfer Abu Omar illegally from Italy to Egypt, via Germany, also landed at an Irish airport.
There are many legal systems in which circumstantial evidence can be used as the basis of a trial, and there is circumstantial evidence that is so weighty that it virtually constitutes proof.
This is a situation we have found ourselves in in a number of cases.
The investigation to uncover this international parastate must proceed and be extended, despite the reactions of all those who wish to play down and cover up this scandal.
I am truly sorry that some fellow Members in this House refuse to see the facts and the data and prefer the path of ideological fanaticism and prejudice, in contrast to their counterparts on the same wing in the Council of Europe.
It is clear from the information that the heads of the secret services knew about the activities of US agents and possibly certain people in positions of responsibility in the governments knew and turned a blind eye.
It is not possible for 32 aeroplanes to have made over one thousand flights over five years which no one knew anything about. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to say at the outset that I am fully against flights of rendition.
From an Irish perspective, I am pleased that this report does not come up with any findings against the Irish Government, and this is in line with assurances given by the US authorities.
I totally refute what my colleague Mr De Rossa said here today.
They should establish the facts before they speak in such a manner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, torture is always wrong and counterproductive.
Many of the prisoners transferred in November 2005 from the European black site prisons are now in unknown black hole prisons elsewhere.
The EU has a responsibility to ensure that these prisoners do not suffer further torture.
The UN and the Red Cross should have compulsory access to all prisoners everywhere and the UN should have a daily-updated register of all prisoners in all UN member states.
The EU and EU Member States should also provide more finance for the care of survivors of torture. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the false prophets protecting human and civil rights have multiplied recently.
Today these people are trying to create the impression that democracy’s greatest problem, the greatest problem facing human and civil rights, are not dramatic events that affect millions of people in places such as China, for example, but a few unregistered flights by US aircraft over Europe.
Tomorrow will see the European People’s Party making another attempt to introduce balance into the report and to include in it the conclusions to which the committee actually came.
The real test for you will be whether you will vote in favour of the facts and of what was actually said in the committee, whether you want to have broad majority support for this report, or whether you want to leave it as it is – one-sided, tendentious, and failing to set out the facts that actually emerged from the committee’s hearings. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this debate forms part of a wider discussion about the best way of fighting international terrorism.
One thing that is paramount in this has also been clearly encapsulated in Mr&#160;Fava’s report, namely where he states that we can never win the battle against international terrorism if we sacrifice the very principles we seek to uphold in the fight against it.
There is no doubt that extraordinary renditions via European airports have taken place.
Moreover, the investigation clearly showed up the serious loopholes in our legislation and in our monitoring practices.
Either way, it is clear that security forces in some Member States are working outside the reach of proper and effective governmental control and scrutiny.
The UK response has been the adoption of shoot-to-kill policies on the basis of guidance from the security forces in the war on terror, which has seen an innocent man killed in my own country and another lucky to be alive.
Governments have underlined the importance of leaving no stone unturned when justifying the intolerable suspension of civil liberties in the name of national security, rendering certain sections of our population subject to unrelenting, imbalanced scrutiny.
This is where this House must step in for the good of all our citizens.
The Fava report, substantiated by little evidence because of the obstacles put in the way of the committee by many EU governments, is not in itself sufficient to prove the political dependence of Europe.
Nobody wants to protect terrorists and nobody wants to show out-and-out anti-Americanism, but we cannot help but acknowledge that there have been breaches of human rights and repeated violations of the sovereignty of Member States throughout the EU.
After all, the way suspects are treated is, in effect, at the very heart of the values in which we in the EU share.
In particular, I would like to see a more realistic reflection of the number of cases in respect of which evidence has been gathered, of the remarks of the terrorism coordinator Mr&#160;De&#160;Vries, Mr&#160;Solana and Mr&#160;Bellinger and also the clear statement that no proof has as yet been found for the existence of secret prisons in Member States.
I think that that would enhance the credibility of the Commission’s work and, with it, support in the plenary.
We are all in favour of the war on terror, but what it calls for is broad support, popular support, in Europe, so if we want to wage this war, we need support from the people, who have no less interest in the rule of law being upheld than we do.
We must explicitly uphold the rule of law as an essential element in the European Union, and this is a point that Commissioner Frattini constantly, and rightly, makes.
Now, though, we have to get back to the rule of law, which is absolutely necessary if war is to be waged on terrorism with any success, and one of this committee’s essential objectives is to ensure that the war on terror can, in future, be waged effectively and in accordance with sound legal principles. &#160;&#160; Mr President, action against terrorism has eroded human rights and is eroding the protection of ordinary citizens’ privacy in Europe and outside it.
A recent report on human rights produced by the International Helsinki Federation states that in the last three years the human rights situation has deteriorated globally.
The EU must work on the basis that terrorism is to be opposed through legitimate means and in a way that respects both international and national law.
If that is true it is very dangerous. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the important purpose of the report that we are discussing is to establish the responsibility of individuals or organisations for possible offences committed in breach of human rights.
This report, however, cannot and must not become an instrumental act of accusation against the United States and other countries involved in the front line in the fight against terrorism.
In the first place, the Italian Government and the security services organisation have always stated, at all parliamentary sittings, that they had no connection whatsoever with the events leading to the capture of Abu Omar and so far nobody has been able to prove the contrary.
Secondly, last Monday Abu Omar was again arrested in Cairo because he was considered a threat to the security of the Egyptian State.
Third, the Milanese mosque in Viale Jenner, well-known even outside Italy because it has been involved in investigations into terrorism, today expressed satisfaction at the arrest of the two representatives of the military secret service.
I am also astonished at the rapporteur’s one-sided defence of civil rights in this matter, where, in contradiction to European legal culture, arrest is conflated with conviction, a confusion that the rapporteur did not make, however, in the case of Abu Omar.
This was a flagrant breach of the freedom of the press, in particular because the procedure was directed against a newspaper that is highly critical of the government and involved in combating terrorism.
Many lives have been saved through the sacrifice of the police, the armed forces and the security services. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the setting up of our temporary committee has allowed us to ascertain beyond doubt that the CIA has indeed seized people on Union territory with a view to transporting them to countries where they could be interrogated.
Laws exist to protect our citizens, but these practices are not acceptable in our democratic societies.
We must send a clear message to the US administration: we are prepared to cooperate in the fight against terrorism but provided that the rule of law is adhered to.
That is why we urge national parliaments to take up this issue, in order to shed every possible light on what has really taken place on their territory.
Finally, I am pleased with the work that our temporary committee has done and I congratulate our rapporteur most warmly on his high-quality and tireless work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a great deal has already been said about the importance of values based on human rights.
Respecting these values is the duty of all the institutions, countries and citizens of the European Union.
If we want this principle to be used with respect to persons accused of terrorism, we cannot give a negative example ourselves.
In my view Mr&#160;Fava’s report was biased, and based primarily on doubt, conjecture and circumstantial evidence.
The report confirms only two previously known facts, the Italian and the Swedish cases, which are already being dealt with by the relevant domestic authorities of these countries.
Only such action would provide legal protection for all those we suspect or may suspect of terrorism.
We should ensure that the laws and procedures in the fight against terrorism, even in the area that is by nature kept secret, still provide sanctions and punish breaches of human rights and dignity.
Thanks to the determination and rigour of the US press we know that at least 480 people are in the sinister prison at Guantánamo, with no legal guarantees.
Some of those prisoners have passed through Europe under illegal detention; other kidnapped people have been released and have spoken to us here.
Crimes against human rights cannot go unpunished, and must never be forgotten, as happened in the case of other flights by former dictatorships in Argentina and Chile.
Certain governments, the Spanish and German Governments, for example, have offered to cooperate with the committee chaired by Mr&#160;Coelho, and that is something we should be grateful for. &#160;&#160; – The interim report before us today is the fruit of the work of a committee that unfortunately opted to make up for a lack of investigatory powers by pulling out all the stops to issue political judgment on the activities of the USA’s allies in Europe.
It irks me that the majority of the committee has drawn subjective, distorted conclusions from a few facts and from a huge number of unsubstantiated rumours.
If there are suspicions that human rights have been violated in EU countries, they should be investigated by the judicial systems of the Member States.
Rather than unsubstantiated denunciations of the US secret services, the EU’s political authorities should be focusing on how to prevent terrorism effectively and how to meet their responsibilities as regards world security, in close cooperation with the allies and in compliance with the fundamental principles of international law.
I firmly believe, Mr President, that Parliament should take the opportunity to amend the report to ensure that our work is credible.
Otherwise, I will have no option but to reject this temporary committee report, along with the entire Czech contingent from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which has agreed on this course of action. &#160;&#160; – The Martin and Fava reports confirm that a gang that does not care how it achieves its aims and disrespects the essential values of justice and human rights has infiltrated the Administration of our US ally and has managed to forge the active and passive complicity of our governments and state services in the practice of rape, kidnapping, torture, and other crimes against people suspected of acts of terror, but who have yet to have charges brought against them, let alone face trial.
The US Supreme Court has recently said that in the prisons of Guantánamo and Kabul, where so-called unlawful combatants are festering, Washington is not only holding them unlawfully, it is keeping them in prison in breach of both US and international law.
This committee of inquiry, led with professionalism by Mr&#160;Coelho and Mr&#160;Fava, can and should demand the parliamentary oversight of the Member States’ security services and detailed inspections of airport authorities in order to stop extraordinary rendition.
I have participated in the vast majority of hearings held by the committee to date, and I have listened with interest to everything the relevant invited guests had to say.
The key was to ascertain whether the persons detained had been subjected to torture during interrogations and moved to third countries against their will.
In the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats we take a critical view of the approach adopted by the rapporteur, who likes to interpret suspicions as hard evidence.
Unless the left accepts realistic amendments that contribute significantly towards establishing the truth, I will have to consider whether I can support the report in its current form. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we usually say, if you want to find the crime, follow the money.
In this particular instance, you have to follow the aeroplanes.
In the second instance, in a rare case of hasty cooperation between governments at European level, an agreement riddled with holes was signed with the USA, known as the transfer of Passenger Name Records or PNR, not only without adequate proof of the need for the measures, but also with barely any fundamental safeguarding of binding American obligations for the secure and legal use of our data.
The European governments are today directly obliged, both individually and in cooperation with each other, to take all the necessary measures which will ensure that illegal CIA flights are not repeated.
I thank you and, on behalf of all of us, I especially thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Fava, on his excellent work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, time and again this Chamber has condemned terrorists and therefore it is needless to extend the rhetoric on this horrible phenomenon.
I shall just say that we cannot forget the tragedy of September 11; we cannot forget the London bloodshed; we cannot forget the Madrid massacre.
However, at the same time, we cannot forget that human rights are a cornerstone of modern European political philosophy.
Therefore, despite our understanding of the USA’s role in combating terrorism, we cannot shut our eyes to certain activities that are contrary to European principles, values and rules.
I appeal therefore to the rapporteur and to the other political groups to accept certain basic amendments proposed by Mr&#160;Gawronski, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, so that this House votes unanimously on two main points: firstly on the condemnation of terrorists and secondly on the protection of human rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the final speaker from the Socialist Group, I would like to commend not only my previous colleagues and the rapporteur, but also the balanced approach we heard from Mr Coelho and the interesting comments by the Commissioner on greater transparency and reform of the intelligence services.
The previous speaker spoke about 7/7 and London.
The people who have written to us are not anti-American; they want anti-terrorism to be strengthened because human rights are being strengthened.
No, I do not, because we are waiting for the Member States and for those who have not spoken to finally speak.
We are telling European citizens that we will talk about the minute legislative detail, but are we also telling them that, when they are concerned about transparency and human rights and allegations they know very little about, we as a Parliament cannot deal with that?
On our side of the House, we want to see the report extended, because we believe we have the right approach. &#160;&#160; Mr President, unlike Mr Moraes I was opposed from the very start to the Temporary Committee on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners, and it should stop right now in its tracks.
It is an expensive exercise, duplicating Senator Marty’s efforts in the Council of Europe, and one driven by a political desire by the left and liberals to bash America, and the CIA in particular, in their efforts to fight global terrorism.
In a hazardous project as widespread in the west as fighting terrorism, inevitably some mistakes and excesses may have occurred, but in my opinion there was no systematic US policy for extraordinary renditions to torture abductees in third countries.
Furthermore, there is no proof whatsoever of the existence of CIA detention camps in Romania or Poland.
Simple renditions of illegal combatant terrorist suspects through EU territory are a proven fact, but not necessarily illegal under international law where torture is not involved.
In any case, I agree with Alan Dershowitz, Harvard Professor of Law, when he argues that there exists a vast black hole in international law as regards combating terrorism, with categorisation of detainees anachronistic and the rules governing how such detainees are treated currently dangerously blurred.
With things as they are, it strikes me as reflecting a rather idiosyncratic scheme of priorities for all the European institutions to devote their attention to CIA flights up to the point where the main thing we know is that we know nothing.
If we want ourselves to be taken seriously, then we should dissolve this superfluous committee at once and, in short order, move on to thinking more about ourselves than about the possible misdeeds of a state that is our strongest ally and will – I hope – remain so in future.
It is with all these considerations in mind that I will be voting against the anti-American resolution with which we have been presented. &#160;&#160; Mr President, six months ago we set up a temporary committee to investigate allegations of extraordinary rendition flights by the CIA and the involvement of EU countries.
There have been many hours of hearings and debates in the committee since then and now we have our first interim report.
Even if we are reconsidering evidence already exposed by the Council of Europe, we need to be realistic.
I believe that the report should have given more recognition to the fact that more evidence is needed to draw definitive conclusions in regard to certain issues, such as the possible existence of ‘black sites’ in EU Member States.
It is unfortunate that the debate on whether or not to support this report has been reduced by some to a polarising of positions, a pro- and anti-US stance, or even a left versus right divide.
It is not anti-American to criticise extraordinary rendition or to push to establish facts, particularly if there are accusations against EU Member States in this regard.
I include the US in that.
I can confirm that the European Commission is ready to continue working with this Parliament’s temporary committee on the many fundamental issues that have been addressed.
Mrs&#160;Ludford has touched on the theme of the implementation of anti-terrorism legislation by Member States, a central issue on which we certainly need to work.
As you will know, unfortunately five EU Member States have not yet even transposed the European framework decision on combating terrorism; you also know that only seven out of the 25 States have ratified the Europe-United States agreement on extradition, an agreement which, if it were to come into force, would certainly clarify the legal framework precisely regarding the transfer of prisoners.
Some speakers, such as Mr&#160;Swoboda and Mrs&#160;in't&#160;Veld, have mentioned the possibility and the need to work together for improved security and greater freedom.
Furthermore, I believe that the Guantánamo judgment handed down by the US Supreme Court proves that the system for legally supervising guarantees and rights under the US democratic system does indeed function and provides a reassuring basis for our joint work.
That is a piece of information on Italian laws of which Mr&#160;Catania is aware, but of which many of you are not. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The national authorities are responsible for this sort of enquiry.
The Council assumes that current cooperation between private companies like SWIFT and the US authorities will be in accordance with applicable law and in compliance with fundamental rights.
The Council, like Parliament, is a legislating body and, as such, it would like to draw Parliament’s attention to a proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on information on the payer accompanying transfers of funds.
This regulation is being discussed by both Parliament and the Council.
Article&#160;14 of the proposed regulation states that anyone providing payment services must respond immediately and thoroughly to requests made by the authorities responsible for the prevention of money laundering or the financing of terrorism in the Member State in which they are located and which concern data to be disclosed on the payer accompanying transfers of funds and storing this information.
The Council believes that this Community act, in line as it is with fundamental rights, will strengthen the legislative framework needed to prevent flows of dirty money which come about through transfers of funds and which can harm the stability and reputation of the financial sector.
On 6&#160;December 2005 the Council agreed on the general conception of the proposal.
We will be closely monitoring the legislative work to prevent, , illegal and unjustified activity against the financing system.
The Commission is also debating the Commission’s Proposal for a Council Framework Decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
The framework decision aims to ensure that personal data on European citizens has a high level of protection.
That requires common regulations, so that we can determine the legality and quality of data being processed by the competent authorities in the Member States.
Although the proposal will not apply to the financing system directly, it will provide for the protection of personal data and may also be important for a case that is being dealt with.
At present, it seems that there was a transfer of financial information between private companies from the EU to the United States.
National authorities are primarily responsible for the proper application of the data protection rules.
I trust that European Member States will take all the necessary action to ensure that their national data protection legislation is properly applied and strictly enforced.
I observe that the Belgian Prime Minister has already asked the Justice Ministry to investigate and that the Belgian Data Protection Supervisory Commission is being equally active in assessing the circumstances under which this particular transfer has taken place.
As my colleague, Mr McCreevy, stated on Monday before this Parliament, the regulation on information on the payer accompanying transfers of funds, on which you will vote tomorrow, contains the appropriate safeguards on data protection and access by competent authorities to such data.
Let me finish by stressing once again my commitment to the fight against terrorism and to the identification of methods used to finance it, acting, of course, within the full rule of law and in accordance with our fundamental rights. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs&#160;Lehtomäki, SWIFT, the Society for Worldwide International Financial Telecommunication, has stated that it, acting upon a request from the American Department of Finance, passed on to the American authorities a limited amount of information concerning international money transfers.
According to the statement by the Belgian data company, moreover, cooperation with the authorities is intended to prevent misuse of the international financial system.
The Belgian Government – according to press reports, at any rate – is already investigating whether the US administration’s research activities were in breach of national law, and this is something to which Commissioner Frattini has just referred.
The Belgian minister for justice has also set in motion investigations into this matter, and her department is, in the initial stages at any rate, the right one to be investigating this sort of thing, for, according to current law, it is the Belgian legal system that must take action and make inquiries.
Even if we still do not have a European document regulating data protection within the framework of police activities, existing legislation requires respect for national legislation in the case of any exchange of data provided for in the context of public security.
Such exchanges must, moreover, be authorised by the Member States.
Although it may not have the legal or political tools to take a decision regarding this scandal – by which I mean the SWIFT affair – which has followed on from that involving clandestine flights, there is nothing to stop it affirming its moral virtue and saying publicly what it thinks about it - something that, as far as I know, it has still not done.
In Europe, and more specifically in the EU, we have progressively constructed a state governed by the rule of law in which any transfer of personal data to third countries must, of absolute necessity, obey national or European rules.
The first of these rules states that any transfer must be authorised by a judicial authority, and no one else.
Neither a State nor a bank is the owner of the information of which it makes use.
I would point out that the legal instrument exists, and I would recall what Mrs&#160;Roure said just now to the effect that it would be a really very important step if we were to succeed in sorting out this matter under the Finnish Presidency.
Parliament really does need to put a stop to this type of thing.
In this area, too, the United States now needs to decide which side it is on. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we would be making a mistake if we regarded the SWIFT matter as an isolated event.
The systematic surveillance of the lives of European citizens has now become commonplace and we are facing what George Orwell called ‘Big Brother’, in the name of the fight against terrorism.
I think that this must be prevented from happening in the name of the credibility and the very future of Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Mr&#160;Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, I was concerned at the allegations published in the New York Times about a secret programme whereby the database of the SWIFT organisation – through which most of the world’s financial transactions pass – was intercepted by the CIA.
We must restate our determination, on both sides of the Atlantic, to combat terrorism resolutely and effectively, but this must not be at the expense of full respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law.
In other words, these are operations relating to public security and the activities of the Member State in its area of criminal law.
I do not know if this was lost in translation, or if Mr&#160;Frattini actually told us today, that in his view Directive 95/46 applies in this case.
In any event, the Member States must protect these data.
Although I do not want to draw direct comparisons between this case and the issue of CIA flights, the SWIFT case is not an isolated one, but an example of the way in which the Americans, in particular, hope to fight terrorism.
In this case too, we should ask ourselves whether all the rules have been complied with.
Above all, however, we want to prevent a situation in which we all operate in some kind of grey area, with the creation of a legal vacuum in which even the citizens no longer know where they stand.
The draft resolution contains a number of pertinent comments in that respect.
We in the European Union must speak with one voice and ensure that, together with our ally, we fight terrorism on a legal basis. &#160;&#160; The press have been writing about the US Government’s data mining of private financial records held by SWIFT, but they have not informed us whether this concerns SWIFT in the USA or whether it also applies to Europe.
Firstly, the European Parliament cannot engage in a serious debate about this issue merely on the basis of press coverage and vague statements.
Secondly, it has to abide by its treaties and be aware of its areas of jurisdiction.
We know that the Belgian authorities have launched an investigation into this, but do not yet have any results.
The Socialists and a number of other political groups think otherwise.
They have submitted a joint proposal for a resolution in which they state that US authorities have access to the records held by SWIFT and that this was an instance of the USA violating fundamental provisions on personal data protection.
Similarly, they have disregarded the fact that the Belgian Government is in charge of investigating the case and that the European Parliament has no role to play at this stage.
So, in order to preserve the dignity of the European Parliament and out of respect for EU’s , we, members of the Group of the European People’s Party and European Democrats, have adopted our own resolution in which we call everyone’s attention to the rules of the game and in which we say that we should only have recourse to such resolutions when we can operate with incontrovertible facts.
I support the views of Commissioner Frattini and call on Members of the Parliament to support our resolution as it complies fully with the and the ethics and standards of conduct of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the SWIFT scandal, in conjunction with the problematic recital of the recent decision by the European Court of the otherwise correct rejection of the transfer of Passenger Name Records agreement, highlight an exceptionally dangerous grey zone which is starting to arise around the use of sensitive personal data to combat terrorism.
To be specific, any third country, not just the USA, now appears to be able, merely by citing even fictitious reasons of national security, to define: - firstly, the decision-making level in the European Union; in other words, if decisions will be taken at Community or national level; - secondly, which European legislation will apply and - thirdly, the level, therefore, for permitted access, use and protection of the data of millions of innocent citizens, which are collated and kept – listen to this – by private companies, not even by the police authorities, and for private reasons.
I and other Members would like to know what role the Council and the European Central Bank played and how aware they were of the secret agreements made by SWIFT and the United States administration, since the duty of transparency should not apply solely to our dialogue and debates in Parliament, it also has to exist outside this House.
The Presidency takes a very serious view of this, and, as has been said, it is the responsibility of the National Bank of Belgium to oversee SWIFT and we also now await with interest what the Belgian authorities uncover.
It happens that on US territory, in accordance with US legislation, data transmitted for commercial reasons is used for security purposes.
That would leave the first pillar part, that is the transfer between two private parties for commercial reasons.
A third aspect would still be missing: transfer between a Member State and a third country, that is not data transmitted from the European Union to a third country, but by an individual Member State directly to a third country.
If we look at these three points together, which, quite honestly, do not make for a controversy with the United States of America, but they do concern all third countries, we will be able to get a precise handle on that grey area. &#160;&#160; – I have received five motions for resolutions1 in accordance with Rule 103 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 6&#160;July 2006, at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0312/2006).
The Justice and Home Affairs Ministers are holding a preliminary discussion on these matters at their informal meeting in Tampere on 21 and 22 September 2006.
The talks are to be continued in Council sessions in October and December and at the European Council in December. &#160;&#160; I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for that reply.
In the six weeks since I tabled the question, things have moved on a lot.
The dialogue in itself is not an opening for negotiations on new commitments.
The first workshop held for the Convention dialogue gave all parties the opportunity to present their ideas on advancing development goals in a sustainable way by addressing action on adjustment and realising the full potential of technology and market-based opportunities.
New ideas were proposed on future action, to be discussed in greater detail.
The workshop leaders, Howard Bamsey of Australia and Sandia de Wet of South Africa, reported to COP12 on the workshop and have promised that the report will be available by August 2006.
Whilst recognising that the discussions by the working group entailed an examination of the additional obligations of the parties mentioned in Annex 1, which were confirmed as changes to Annex B of the Kyoto Protocol, the working group’s deliberations also stressed the importance of bearing in mind the work that was already under way and the results achieved in this area by other bodies and processes under the Convention and the Protocol.
The second session of the working group will be during the second session of the Parties serving as the Conference of Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, with further development of the working group’s action plan as the aim.
The situation is to be reassessed after the 12th Conference of Parties in Nairobi, where both these new action processes will be discussed and the first review pursuant to Article&#160;9, paragraph&#160;2, of the Kyoto Protocol will be carried out. &#160;&#160; – Thank you, Minister, for giving me such a very precise answer.
I hope that we can be in active contact with the European Parliament during the process, because Parliament has shown a very keen interest in these issues of climate, which is welcome considering how important this is for our future. &#160;&#160; President-in-Office of the Council, I appreciate your well-informed reply to the previous question enormously.
The European Union urges all parties to participate constructively in the process for determining Kosovo’s status and would remind them that progress in the implementation of standards in Kosovo will be crucially important for taking this process forward.
There is still a very wide range of opinions on the subject, but the technical discussions on status have also been necessary and useful.
Finland welcomes the notion that the EU’s absorption capacity has not become a new enlargement criterion but an issue that demands serious attention within the European Union itself.
Experts agree that the hostage-taking in Iraq is perpetrated by a large number of criminal and terrorist groups for a multitude of reasons – but more often than not the motivation is financial.
Particularly worrying therefore are the recent indications that a number of EU Member States have paid enormous ransoms to criminal and terrorist groups in return for the freedom of kidnapped nationals.
The European Union and the United Nations have repeatedly condemned the taking of hostages.
International cooperation, and in particular cooperation within the EU, is a very useful tool in dealing with such cases.
The relevant practical forms of action include united political support and action on the part of the EU in kidnapping situations, preparing for hostage taking situations in joint pilot projects and crisis exercises, the reinforcement of national crisis groups using experts from other countries, and a Member States’ check list of options for joint action.
In a few special cases there has already been practical cooperation, but it would be useful to clarify the basis for cooperation further.
We will work hard and we hope that a solution will be found. &#160;&#160; – It often becomes apparent to us that our governments are very poorly informed about the background to kidnappings; first we are told that they are carried out by terrorists, only for it often to turn out that the motivation for them is merely criminal – quite different, in other words.
This strategy and cover various aspects and dimensions of migration, for example, legal immigration, the prevention and control of illegal immigration, human trafficking and people smuggling.
As regards the action that the Union has taken in response to recent events in the Canary Islands, I would like to suggest that the honourable Member take a closer look at the answers that were given to oral questions H-0440, H-0455, H-0460, H-0473 and H-0478/2006.
This number of questions and answers shows that this is an important issue and the debate on it and measures relating to it must be continued. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much for your reply, Madam President-in-Office of the Council.
The Hague Programme relating to the domain of freedom, security and justice confirms the importance of integration policy in promoting the stability and cohesion of our societies.
In November 2004, representatives of the Council and the Member States reached some conclusions on the drafting of common basic principles for integration policy for immigrants.
The common basic principles state that integration is a dynamic, two-way process of mutual understanding and accommodation by all immigrants and residents of Member States.
Accordingly, Member States are urged to take account of integration policy and include both immigrants and nationals of Member States in it.
Frequent interaction between immigrants and Member State citizens is a fundamental mechanism for integration.
The common basic principles state, in particular, that shared forums for intercultural dialogue, information on immigrants and their cultures and the development of living conditions in urban environments enhance the interactions between immigrants and Member State citizens.
The importance of integration in connection with access to Community and Member State territory and the need to improve action in this field have been cited in several initiatives, such as the Commission Communication relating to the Policy Plan for Legal Immigration.
During the Finnish Presidency, the work of the Council will be made significantly open, as the debate on legislative matters in the codecision procedure will be open.
The Council will consider proposals for harmonisation if and when the Commission makes them.
We have to remember that on 1&#160;December 1997 the Council adopted a resolution on a code of conduct to apply to business taxation in order to tackle any harmful taxation measures that would or could impact significantly on the location of economic activity in the Community.
The working group set up to consider the practical aspects of the code makes an assessment on the basis of the criteria set out in the code of conduct whether taxation measures adopted by one Member State constitutes harmful competition or not.
According to the Commission, such a tax base would be used to promote the Lisbon Strategy to a significant extent, because it will help to make the internal market more effective, which would lead to an improved EU competitive position in global markets.
The initiative does not go into the issue of tax rates, but a tax base.
Taxation is, as I stated in my original answer, an important matter both for the functioning of the internal market and competition.
In a statement which the President of the ECOFIN Council gave at the spring meeting of the IMF’s International Monetary and Financial Committee, he reiterated the Council’s position on global imbalances, saying that in the medium term the enormous current account imbalances cannot be sustained and it is the combined responsibility of all the major players involved to address the problem.
Within the context of international cooperation, a macroeconomic and structural policy that aims to maintain growth should be practised to facilitate due rectification of current account deficits and surpluses.
An open, multilateral system of trade is an essential prerequisite for greater continued growth.
Increased national saving in the United States and domestic growth in Asian countries, in particular, are crucial in any attempt to correct global imbalance.
The communiqué in April 2006 of the International Monetary and Financial Committee echoed this view, which partners at global level generally accepted. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mrs&#160;Lehtomäki, I note that, notwithstanding talk of the medium term, we are now in the short term.
With regard to reviewing the procedures, I would like to state that Finland, during its Presidency, wants to return to the practice where questions are answered in the order in which they have come to the attention of the Council, and the Presidency does not, therefore, intend to answer them by subject matter.
It will also be the task of the Presidency to submit to the European Parliament written replies to questions which are not dealt with during Question Time owing to a lack of time.
The Commission managed that, but very often the Council answers take three months.
The reason very often given to us is that it takes time to get the answer agreed by all the members of the Council.
In real terms, you are able to give answers off-the-cuff to supplementary oral questions.
Perhaps there could be a deadline for getting the answers from the other Council members so that you can then give us the answers within the timescale in our Rules.
Although the Presidency speaks on its own behalf, it has to be and wants to be in line with other Council members.
That is why it is important to get comments from other Member States.
I – and we, as the Presidency – are more than willing to make best use of all the experience and practical arrangements and recommendations that might come up during the Presidency.
I would also just mention that, personally, I find it a challenging experience to answer these questions. &#160;&#160; Questions which had not been answered for lack of time would receive written answers (see Annex).
That concludes Question Time. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on - the oral question by Doris Pack on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Gisela Kallenbach on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Hannes Swoboda on behalf of the PSE Group, Erik Meijer, Ignasi Guardans Cambó, Jelko Kacin and Henrik Lax to the Council, on visa policy towards the countries of the Western Balkans (O-0063/2006 B6-0315/2006), - the oral question by Sarah Ludford, Jelko Kacin, Henrik Lax and Ignasi Guardans Cambó, on behalf of the ALDE Group, to the Council on visa facilitation for the countries of the Western Balkans, (O-0077/2006 B6-0320/2006), and - the oral question by Sarah Ludford, Jelko Kacin, Henrik Lax and Ignasi Guardans Cambó, on behalf of the ALDE Group, to the Council, on visa facilitation for the countries of the Western Balkans (O-0078/2006 B6-0321/2006). &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the countries of South-Eastern Europe, as they move towards the European Union, must reform themselves; they must adopt standards and work together on a regional basis, which means, in practical terms, that they must be reconciled with one another.
Even our counterparts in the national parliaments of South-Eastern Europe have to apply for a visa every time they want to attend meetings of the Council of Europe.
Over 70% of the young people in Serbia, Bosnia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Kosovo or Albania have never ventured outside their own region or their own country.
It was with the help of our European Union that Bosnia and Herzegovina managed to secure its borders, and the neighbouring countries are doing the same, so let us take off our blinkers and help to do away with these unnecessary and humiliating barriers. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Madam&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Mr&#160;Vice-President of the Commission, even though the Members of this House who are speaking in today’s debate are from different countries and different political groupings, what we all agree on is that more must be done to bring this region, which runs the risk of becoming a black hole in terms of European unification, closer to the European Union.
We do indeed, then, hope that the Finnish Presidency will continue what the Austrian Presidency – although it did not initiate it – certainly stepped up, and we also put our hopes in Commissioner Frattini, who has shown himself to be very knowledgeable and very willing.
I hope that you will both be very pro-active in bringing this about, not only so that these countries may be helped, but also so that we may be helped to build up, with the young people of the Balkans and of South-Eastern Europe, a Europe in which we can all share. &#160;&#160; Citizens of the countries of the Western Balkans experience significant problems in travelling around Europe.
This serves, in effect, to illustrate the sheer misery of our current visa regime.
In order to speed up the process of Europeanisation in the Western Balkans, we need a vastly more flexible approach, except in the case of criminals, of course – they are very resourceful and will find their way everywhere.
I am talking of ordinary people who would like to experience Europe and European values in practice, and preferably while they are still growing up, receiving an education and building a set of values.
These are the least developed parts of Europe and these people have to invest a huge amount of time and a lot of money, not to mention pride, when applying for visas.
We know, too, Commissioner Frattini, that you and your fellow Commissioner Mr&#160;Rehn are strongly supportive of this process, but it is proving tough going and several Member States are standing in the way.
Any and every delay isolates those people who have pinned their hopes on European integration, and, as my fellow Members have already said, it hinders the economic development that is so urgently needed.
It is obvious that, for example, the mobility of youth and students needs to be facilitated.
This is a way of lending support to the notions of access to information, open democracy and social development.
One important goal of future flexibility on visa requirements will be to promote and facilitate contact between young people in the Western Balkans and the rest of Europe.
The EU has nominated the countries of the Western Balkans as possible candidate countries.
That will require the Western Balkan countries to introduce significant administrative reforms in, for example, greater security of documentation and the fight against organised crime and corruption.
At the Thessaloniki Summit in summer 2003, the European Council stated that the issue of visas was important for the countries of the Western Balkans.
Since then, the Commission has discussed with each Western Balkan country the necessary administrative preparations to make the visa regime easier and, in the long term, waive visa requirements altogether.
In January 2006 the Commission issued a communication on the Western Balkans in which it set out a large number of proposals also to make the visa regime easier in accordance with the Hague Programme.
The Council is committed to the implementation of the proposals on the Thessaloniki agenda, and has also stated that it supports the Commission’s proposals.
One important step forward in the area of increased mobility is the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on local border traffic, due to enter into force soon.
The visa flexibility agreements will be separately negotiable Community agreements within the framework of the Schengen rules.
This way the Union will also benefit from the arrangement because the countries in the Western Balkans will at the same time undertake to readmit citizens of third countries who have passed through them illegally on their way to the EU.
The countries of the Western Balkans have bilateral readmission agreements with many Member States of the Union, so we assume that negotiations at Community level will also go smoothly.
The Commission has already put forward proposals for talks both on visa flexibility agreements and readmission agreements with Macedonia, in the former Republic of Yugoslavia.
The working groups will try to deal with the proposals as quickly as possible for a decision to be taken by the Council.
The General Affairs and External Relations Council, in its conclusions of June this year, hoped that the mandates for visa flexibility and readmission agreements would be adopted this year, so that talks on visa flexibility could be brought to a conclusion with all the countries in the Western Balkans by the end of next year.
The Commission endorses the European vocation of the countries of the Western Balkans, because it considers the region to be strategic for Europe.
They are especially concerned about the level of security in terms of preventing corruption, preventing and combating organised crime, and the different types of trafficking, including, unfortunately, the trafficking of human beings in the region.
We will ask these countries to collaborate more closely with Europe in order to improve the conditions for combating organised crime and corruption.
In this context, one measure that we feel is useful for exerting pressure on some Member States, which have raised objections over the past months, is the request that these countries equip themselves as quickly as possible with passports that conform to European standards, that is which comply with the rules of security as regards combating the falsification of passports and identity documents.
I think that countries in this region have the political will to do this.
I have personally met all the Ministers of Home Affairs and the Prime Ministers of the countries in this region and I can tell you now that, before 15&#160;July, I will apply to the Commission for mandates to negotiate visa facilitation agreements for all the countries of the Western Balkans.
I have reason to believe that the proposal will be announced on 15&#160;July to the Council of Foreign Affairs Ministers, the first Council under the Finnish Presidency.
I strongly hope, or rather, after talking with the Ministers representing the Presidency, I am quite sure that, by the end of this year, there will be a concrete possibility of the largest possible number of mandates to negotiate visa facilitation agreements being approved.
This will mean not only that, as from 2007, the countries of the Western Balkans will benefit from a facilitated visa regime, but also that these countries will not have to bear the increased cost of a visa, which is rising to EUR&#160;60, which has already been decided by the Council.
However, I should like to express the particular concern that, three years after the decisions by the Thessaloniki European Council, there has been no progress in changes to the visa system.
I believe that what the President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner Frattini have told us today is, of course, positive but, Commissioner, we cannot wait until the end of 2007 to complete the procedure for changing the visa system.
It is a problem of the strategic credibility of the European Union.
It is a problem of contributing to peace, to stability, to cooperation, to the strengthening of the European integration of the countries of the Western Balkans.
However, I fear that 2007 is far too late.
I believe ultimately that the European Union must send a strong message, say no to the ghettoisation&#160;... &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mrs&#160;Lehtomäki, Mr&#160;Frattini, the fact that the western Balkan countries are being walled in by visa requirements is a tragedy for those countries, whose people have been able to travel freely in Western Europe for 20 years.
For those of us still able to do so, it is almost impossible to understand what it means suddenly to be placed behind a border that cannot be crossed without a visa.
In today’s knowledge-based economy, mobility is just as important a requirement as access to modern information technology.
That must be our starting point when the EU formulates its visa policy.
As Mrs&#160;Lehtomäki also said, the EU needs a clear plan for simplifying the visa procedure and for finally getting rid of the visa requirement.
It must be made clear to the countries that are our neighbours what conditions they have to fulfil in order, firstly, to see visa procedures genuinely simplified and, secondly, to see the compulsory visa requirement one day done away with.
One of the obvious goals of the EU’s bilateral visa agreement must, however, be to facilitate mobility for all, and not only for certain categories of people.
On behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, I should like to see a more ambitious visa policy, genuinely simplified procedures for the Balkan countries and, indeed, for everyone, and the clear objective of abolishing the compulsory visa requirement.
Our aim is for the first agreements to be signed during the course of this year.
Visa flexibility is a very real issue that affects ordinary people and which can strengthen rapprochement with the European Union in the countries of the Western Balkans.
I would like to highlight the very good cooperation that has prevailed between our two institutions, especially in the last ten months.
As a result, the European Parliament and the Commission have succeeded in convincing even the most reluctant Member States to make a major breakthrough in terms of parliamentary control.
If the compromise package is endorsed by Parliament tomorrow, Parliament will have a right of veto on the substance of most implementing measures.
We will further improve transparency and access to comitology documents.
We will make sure that the period for consultation only starts when Parliament has received all language versions.
We will screen all existing acts adopted under codecision, and, where appropriate, make proposals for adaptation before the end of next year.
Finally, as stated in the trilateral declaration, we have agreed to adapt 25 codecision instruments as a matter of urgency.
The Commission will make the corresponding proposals before the end of the year.
The two reports by Mr Corbett were adopted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs by an extremely large majority, but I wish to say a few words about the sole amendment tabled, in view of your vote tomorrow.
I believe that this amendment goes in the wrong direction.
It undermines the mutual trust that has guided the three institutions during the negotiations.
Mr Daul and I, having been involved in these negotiations, felt we were the victims of this plot.
We have before us technically two reports for procedural reasons, but they concern a single package: the proposed revision of the 1999 Council decision on comitology and the joint declarations which, because they constitute a sort of interinstitutional agreement, are subject to a separate report.
My constituents back home in Yorkshire would be asking me what comitology is.
The systems change slightly, but it is quite normal to confer powers on the executive, not least to deal with technical details and complex matters once the main legislation has laid down the general principles.
In many cases those committees have the power to block the Commission and refer the matter back to the Council.
We now receive every document that is sent to a comitology committee.
However, up to now, our fundamental objections have been unanswered.
With this agreement there is a transformation of the situation: henceforth Parliament will be able to say no to any implementing measure of a quasi-legislative nature adopted through the comitology system, and if we say no the measure cannot be enacted.
The Commission will either have to put forward a new proposal or table new legislation under the codecision procedure.
That is a huge step forward for Parliament – and not just for Parliament – in terms of the accountability and transparency of the whole Union system.
Nonetheless, there have been some issues with which we have been ill at ease and where we had to negotiate to ensure that our position was fully safeguarded.
That will give us adequate time to consider these matters.
With very loose control over how they were exercised, it was quite normal that we wanted to use sunset clauses as a way of reasserting control if need be.
We recognised that as part of the negotiations, because the other institutions felt very strongly about it, but also, in my opinion, because as a parliament we realised that we will not need to do so.
That is why my group and our committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, rejected the amendments to which the Commissioner referred.
Commissioner Wallström referred to the package of 25 measures that will be adapted urgently, with a proposal by the end of this year.
But we have no undertaking from the Council to act within any given timetable, so we as a Parliament will have to watch that very carefully.
Its position is completely different to the Commission’s position of a few years ago and I think Commissioner Wallström can take much of the credit for that.
The Commission has moved to a position where it was very supportive of our position.
I would like to thank the British and the Austrian Presidencies: the British Presidency that initiated the resumption of the Council’s consideration of this matter, the Austrian Presidency that took it forward so ably.
We went through many meetings together over a six-month period.
There is nothing at all personal about what I shall say about it; all I want to do is counteract some misconceptions that are becoming current.
We are not debating this issue today because the Commission wanted us to, nor, indeed, out of any desire for it on the part of the Council, which, lamentably, left the Chamber before the debate began.
We are discussing this issue because the committees that have to work with these agreements – and on this there are major differences in this House – decided that we would.
Reference has been made to the British Presidency’s putting this subject on the agenda, and that it indeed did, and because – and this is where comitology comes into it – certain Committees of this House, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs being one of them, were no longer willing to write out a blank cheque and to delegate something without having the right to check up on what was done with it, and that is what we are talking about today; not about giving this House a present, but about something that is the least that it is entitled to in a democratic process.
Any parliament is perfectly entitled to place time limits on legislation, and I think it intolerable that the Commission or the Council should make statements of that sort or try to deny this House that right.
I would just like to remind the Council that, with reference to the draft Constitution and in the debates on it, it went so far as to agree to the delegation having the right of call-back, yet today, it wants nothing to do with it.
For example, the committees – and here I am talking about my own – received the first consultative draft from the Commission as late as just before the summer break; after the summer break, the eight-week deadline had expired, and we were then told that our decision was expected in three months’ time.
Mr&#160;Corbett spoke of the situation of the people of Yorkshire.
Far be it from me to discourage him, but I should nonetheless like to convince him that he still has a little bit of work to do in bringing each of the Members of this House around to the idea of the crucial importance either of comitology or of the results obtained within the framework of the negotiations that have just been completed.
On this point, I place my faith in his powers of persuasion.
I should very much like to thank not only our negotiators, Mr&#160;Corbett and Mr&#160;Daul, for the result at which we have arrived, but also Mr&#160;Radwan and all the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, without whom these negotiations would not have been begun.
We are regularly questioned about the need to monitor the way in which the Member States apply or implement the legislation on which we deliberate in this House.
We shall also have to review the European Parliament’s Rules of Procedure so as to adapt our procedures to these new rights that we have to be able to exercise in full.
Everyone will be delighted this evening with the outcome of the negotiations.
That being said, I should like now to return to three issues that, in my view, remain unresolved.
The first is that of the status of European Parliament observers within the Commission’s expert committees.
The fact is that if we want to exercise in full this oversight and right of call-back where comitology is concerned, we need to be able, under the same conditions as the representatives of the Council, to follow on a day-to-day basis the work of the competent committees where implementation is concerned.
The present package has three consequences for Parliament.
Finally, the change will force Parliament to sharpen up and upgrade the way the committees sift and scrutinise the product of comitology.
Parliament recently took legal action against the Commission for exceeding its powers in comitology.
Parliament will have the right to block future comitology decisions by a majority of Members.
I am glad about that. &#160;&#160; – I too am suffering at the moment because of the game between Portugal and France, not, incidentally, France and England, as Mr&#160;Corbett predicted.
This debate on the democratic control of regulatory acts signals a new era for European democracy.
Parliamentary control of regulatory acts already provided for in a Constitution in waiting is more than putting the democratic power to legislate on a par with the democratic power to control.
It is the consultation procedure that still applies to our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, and, now that it is considering the organic farming regulation, we can once more see how the Commission is attempting to encroach on the Committee’s powers, but we are unable to tackle these attempts head-on, and that must change.
We have injected more transparency and more democracy into the procedures.
From now on the European Parliament should be in a position to delegate implementing powers in all conscience to the Commission without giving up its legitimate rights of scrutiny.
With these substantially improved control rights we see no need for the legislator to set a time limit for the delegation of implementing powers to the Commission.
On the contrary, I believe that this package should provide a stable solution for the future.
This will be done in several ways: firstly, thanks to the Commission’s forthcoming alignment proposals; secondly, via the promised upgrade of the comitology register; and thirdly, through the revision of our 2000 bilateral agreement on the procedures for implementing the comitology decisions.
Ceuta, Melilla, the Canaries, Lampedusa and Malta have become tragic symbols in the task of managing migratory flows, particularly from the South of the world.
Since Monday, nearly 1&#160;000 men have attempted to land and have landed in the Canaries.
The countries of Africa cannot resolve the problem of migratory pressure on their own.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I recently led a delegation of MEPs in the Canaries.
It is true that the European Union is proposing aid and protection at the borders, but there are still men and women thronging the beaches.
The meeting on migration, which will be held next week in Rabat, is a first, very encouraging step.
Finally, representatives from the countries of Africa and Europe are going to get together around a table in order to find some solutions.
The codevelopment policy that Europe is due to put in place tomorrow must become more effective, more intelligent and more secure, so as to assure us that the funds allocated will benefit the people, and them alone.
In an area without internal borders, such as our Schengen area, coordination and information-sharing among the various national immigration policies of the 25 Member States are crucial.
The first important stage in achieving that aim is to improve the exchange of information among the Member States.
My report concerns the establishment of a mutual information procedure in the areas of asylum and immigration.
The main points developed are as follows: all of the Member States will have to supply information concerning their present national legislative state of play.
It is important to make progress and to add a political dimension to this administrative level.
I have always been in favour of more transparency in decision-making procedures, but not in this particular case.
Nevertheless, political discussions on the future measures and draft laws under way must remain confidential.
Otherwise, governments will refuse to submit their current projects to us and to discuss them with us, and we will never have this information.
In concluding the first part of our joint debate, I should like to thank all of the shadow rapporteurs with whom I have worked effectively over the last few months.
I hope that, together, we will demonstrate our will, during tomorrow’s vote, to strive towards greater cooperation among the Member States at EU level.
As regards the integration of immigrants, I should like to congratulate our fellow Member, Mr&#160;Lambrinidis, on his work and his will&#160;-&#160;and I stress, his will&#160;-&#160;to find compromises between all of the political groups.
Integration policy represents a mutual commitment on the part of host countries and of legally resident nationals of third countries.
Immigrants also need to have access to civic education classes and to programmes on equality between men and women in order to become better acquainted with the values of the host country.
The reports presented this evening deal with the immigration and integration policies within the European Union.
These very sensitive issues are at the centre of countless questions and debates that mobilise governments, citizens and elected representatives.
Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the management of migratory flows will take place at European level, because, together, we must build a safer, more prosperous and fair Europe. &#160;&#160; , – Mr President, I am convinced that the smooth integration of immigrants into Europe is a challenge tantamount to the successful enlargement of Europe.
However, in contrast to policies for the smooth integration of candidate countries, the European Union has committed precious few officials or resources over recent years to the major challenge of immigrant integration.
The EU Council, to its credit, firmly stated its commitment to immigrant integration at Tampere in 1999 and reinforced its position at the summit in Thessaloniki under the Greek Presidency in 2003.
Congratulations are also owing to the Commission and Franco Frattini in person, for the exceptional working paper on immigrant integration published a few months ago, with emphasis on the common basic principles of Groningen.
Schools, businesses, places of worship and the other institutions of a local community do the hard work of bringing newcomers and natives together on a daily basis.
Thus, while local, regional, and national authorities should determine the precise integration measures implemented in each case, the Member States as a whole must pursue effective integration strategies whose outcomes advance the Union’s common interests.
My report stresses that immigrant integration implies both obligations and rights for immigrants and for the citizens of the Member States.
The report points out, among many other things, the importance of adopting positive action to integrate immigrants into the education and employment structures of the Member States and into the structures of the political parties in the Member States.
It stresses the importance of making provision for naturalisation rights for all long-term resident immigrants, especially for the children of immigrants born and raised among us.
In other words, it would be wrong and would benefit no one.
In an EU whose internal borders are largely open, migration can – and may – be regulated only with reference to the other Member States and on the basis of joint responsibility, something that Mr&#160;Gaubert made quite clear in his report.
Mr&#160;Lambrinidis’ report shows how support for efforts at integrating immigrants is another important component of a rational and coherent migration policy, but it appears from the Commission’s document – which I have to say is excellent – that all the European Union can do is lay down the framework conditions for this.
We should all care about the things we see happening in Malta, the Canary Islands, Lampedusa, Ceuta and Melilla; all the Member States, the Commission and this House, should help the countries concerned right now, without delay and without bureaucracy.
We, whose concern is with the framing of internal policy, are prepared to play our part in bringing them about. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to put the question presented on its behalf by Mr&#160;Schulz and Mrs&#160;Roure.
I would like to say that these two reports make an important contribution to resolving the problem of immigration.
In other words, what are we in the European Union doing to prevent immigration from being the only source of income for the inhabitants of many of these countries?
Secondly, given that it is not going to be possible to resolve the problems of the developing countries in the short term, what measures are we taking to protect our external borders, including a legal immigration policy of course – which has been laid down in the Hague programme since December 2005 – so that those citizens who want to come to work in our Union, if the jobs are available, can do so in a legal fashion?
There are currently a series of border countries, and not just in the South of Europe, but also in the centre of Europe, which are having to endure an excessive burden in terms of caring for these illegal immigrants on a humanitarian level.
We must integrate immigrants into our societies.
An immigrant, or the children and grandchildren of immigrants, have the right to live as people, under the same conditions as all other citizens of the Union.
In certain countries of the European Union, such as Spain, Italy, Portugal and Greece, this is what happened during an era when time spent abroad was seen simply as a step towards returning to the country of origin and strengthening its economy.
I hope that Commissioner Frattini will help us in this regard – we have a great task ahead of us – and that the Union's institutions, the Commission, the Council and Parliament, can implement the immigration policy which is so essential at the moment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, all the Council’s fine words, as enshrined in the Tampere programme and confirmed in the Hague programme, have borne very little fruit to date.
Although clearly, national agendas are seriously undermining the European agenda in this respect, it is to those agendas that the Member States are very much committed.
The fact that a Commission proposal is needed to get the Member States to cooperate more effectively in the area of data exchange typifies the Member States’ passivity where the establishment of a common asylum and immigration policy is concerned.
As Mr&#160;Gaubert said a moment ago, this data exchange is of major importance and quite simply a matter of necessity.
Commissioner Frattini has already indicated this and presented a comprehensive package of measures in this respect.
As my questions are set out in black and white, and as my time is limited, I will not repeat them here, but I do expect a clear answer, certainly in connection with the passerelle provision.
After all, political courage means that you have to have the correct instruments at your disposal if you want to give visible form to your convictions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to speak briefly on the issue of integration.
We know from a number of pieces of research and projects done under the Equal Programme – not least the strand on asylum-seekers – that the message coming through very clearly is that integration starts on day one for new arrivals and it starts the day before for host communities.
We know, however, that large numbers of illegal people are actually people who have overstayed their visas; they have not entered illegally.
We also know that there are large numbers of people who are semi-compliant, because rules are not clear or are difficult to access.
When I look at the policies of some Member States that are now considering drawing unskilled workers from new Member States and not using third-country nationals, I am not sure what message that sends out.
For example, one of the main keys to European action is the principle of solidarity between Member States of the Union.
The second aspect of the principle of solidarity is precisely that to which Mr&#160;Gaubert’s report, which I very much liked, is devoted.
It is a report based on a proposal that I put forward in 2005, when I became aware of the need to provide a firmer basis for exchange of preventative information by each Member State that legitimately wished to adopt immigration initiatives, where these initiatives had an impact on the other Member States.
Establishing a consultation mechanism is another way of applying the principle of solidarity.
First, a challenge that is both global and European.
For example, we can organise intervention that focuses on migrants’ countries of origin in order to encourage investment and the restructuring of the agricultural system or the environmental fabric, which is very often devastated and blighted.
This work will be developed at a global political level, represented by contribution of Europe, which, I hope, will really speak with one voice, at the United Nations sitting in September, commonly known as the .
The second theme is combating the trafficking of human beings, as mentioned by Mrs&#160;Klamt.
We now have very clear information on traffic flows, on the origin of the traffickers and even on the price charged to each desperate individual transported with no guarantee of reaching their destination alive.
In this context, we are working on readmission agreements.
The third theme is legal immigration, which I see as an opportunity and certainly not a danger.
Allow me to say that it would be irresponsible to welcome immigrants without integrating them because we would thereby increase their frustration and their sense of isolation.
And in talking about integration, we cannot confine ourselves to the capitals of Member States.
The European Integration Forum will deal precisely with this aspect and I hope that this Parliament will support it by approving the European Integration Fund.
It is obvious that, if we wish to beat illegal immigration, we need to stop undeclared work, because undeclared work means exploitation and is also a factor that attracts further illegal immigration.
They are not actions implemented by individual Member States working together, but are coordinated by a European agency.
Lastly, the seventh theme is aid to the immigrants’ countries of origin and of transit.
For the first time, at this conference the African countries and Europe will meet to develop a common action plan.
I think that the future will see the African Union and the European Union implementing a strategic programme and I think that this can really make a difference. &#160;&#160; – We have all recently witnessed the failure of numerous European societies to integrate immigrants.
We therefore need to take measures both at national and regional and at European level which will bridge the gap between immigrants and host societies.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs decided to call on the Member States to introduce secure legal status and a secure package of rights to support this development: - by signing and ratifying the UN Convention 1990 recognising the rights of all immigrants, irrespective of their legal status; - by reversing social deprivation and adopting a package of clear legal rules for all migrant workers; - by taking measures to promote the education and information of immigrants on their social and employment rights; - by guaranteeing individual resident's and work permits and strengthening the information and participation of host societies in the integration process.
I am delighted that the report by my honourable friend Mr&#160;Lambrinidis adopts many of the ideas of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteurs, Mr&#160;Gaubert and Mr&#160;Lambrinidis, for taking action to lay the basis for a common, modern EU immigration policy.
Such joint actions should not only help to resolve problems relating to the latest waves of immigration, but also with the integration of the European-born children of immigrants.
The transition from words to deeds requires not only a good legal basis and mutual exchange of information, but above all funding.
But even this motion for a resolution has aroused some controversy, mainly as regards the political rights of immigrants.
Conferring political rights, and therefore the right to vote in local elections, is a decision which, according to the principle of subsidiarity, lies within the competence of Member States, in most of which such a right is conditional on having nationality of that country.
As a Parliament we may have the right to make political recommendations, but we should remember that we cannot force Member States to incorporate such provisions into their national legislations.
A further important point is that we cannot allow the legal status of citizens of the new Member States as regards access to labour markets, services, education and housing in the lands of the ‘old 15’ to be worse than the situation of legal immigrants from third countries.
I congratulate the Commissioner for taking the time to attempt to act on the Commission communication of September 2005 and to give us real policies with which we can progress.
Of course the Council has to be a willing partner too and we are hoping that the Finnish Presidency might repeat the discussions at the Tampere Council, which were extremely progressive.
The Lambrinidis report is a progressive and positive addition to the new debate on integration in this House.
All these things are important, but ultimately we should stop thinking that integration is not for the European Union.
The Community is letting in more and more emigrants from almost all the developing countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America, and so far, there is little expectation that the scale of this phenomenon will decline.
As we do not have a labour market development strategy covering the whole Community, including migration from developing countries, this report will partially fill the gap.
People are running from Lithuania, while employers are seeking immigrants from third countries.
As the Vice-President said, if we want to help poor countries develop, funds set aside by the Community must not be directed towards food products or financing the budget, but, first and foremost, the creation of small business and jobs.
According to some reports, 3&#160;000 people are thought to have died over the last few months trying to reach the Canary Islands.
Yet, as all the reports attest, the majority of population movements are headed for the countries of the South, and not for those of the North, and the number of asylum claims in Europe has halved over the last 15 years.
The Union and its Member States have an increasing influence on development aid.
That strategy puts the lives of twice as many people at risk – those whose only chance of survival is to leave their country, and those who are forced to take ever greater risks in order to enter Europe.
Yet, freedom of movement, and more specifically the freedom to leave one’s country, is enshrined in the international standards.
Rather than guaranteeing respect for the fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers, namely the right of access to asylum procedures, the principle of non-refoulement or the right to a private and family life, Europe is multiplying the strategies aimed at shifting this responsibility onto third countries.
Worse still, the Member States do not hesitate in violating their own obligations, for example by referring to the readmission agreements and sending people back to countries in which their safety is not guaranteed.
The project to create so-called ‘regional protection’ areas in countries such as Belarus is also in keeping with this idea.
Finally, the Member States are playing an active part in making the policy of imprisoning migrants and asylum seekers an everyday occurrence, and are going as far as to fund secure detention centres in third countries such as Libya and Mauritania.
I have heard Commissioner Frattini confirm the need to patrol our coastlines.
I do not think that migratory flows have a very high demographic impact and we should, therefore, avoid talking about an invasion of immigrants and should try to develop a common policy for the entry of immigrants.
I think that this new method of looking at immigration can help Europe in its constituent process. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I realise that the problem of illegal immigration in the Mediterranean, seen from here, Strasbourg or Brussels, in the heart of the European continent, may appear to many to be a marginal issue to be addressed with the cold, formal language of bureaucracy and with the complicity of Community policy, which, at times, can be cynical and hypocritical.
Too little, Commissioner: we need decisive action and your statements this evening have given us the right to hope.
I have two questions for Commissioner Frattini.
The two proposals before us are important and useful.
Immigrants must be integrated, but we must not forget that this works both ways: host countries must strive to integrate them, but they must also do their bit in the drive towards integration.
I wish to highlight the importance of the Gaubert report aimed at establishing a web-based information system on this issue.
It is thus in the Union’s interest that the Member States implement effective integration strategies the results of which serve the common interest.
Immigrants contribute towards the economic, social and cultural wealth of the European Union.
I say this before this House during the football World Cup, minutes after the semi-final between France and Portugal.
One issue I would like to draw attention to is that at the level of political integration, true integration of the immigrant population in Europe can be achieved on the basis of a new legal and political identity, on the basis of a European constitution, which would guarantee a European identity to all social groups in Europe, over and in addition to their national identities.
In addition, the legal status of integration and special European funds will guarantee proper integration of all social groups within the European Union.
This requires courage and vision on the part of European leaders and the citizens of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr Lambrinidis on his excellent report.
The proposal to call on Member States to encourage political participation by immigrants is particularly important.
We believe that long-term resident immigrants should have the right to vote in local and municipal elections.
It is regrettable that not all political groups fully support such measures, without which, in our opinion, immigrants will remain politically and socially isolated.
The Commission should therefore undertake a legal review of Member States’ current practices in this area.
We shall all have the opportunity to see how the local elections are conducted in our host city, Brussels.
All non-EU citizens who have lived there without interruption for five years will have the right to participate.
I hope that event will be an example of good practice, to be adopted by all Member States in their election laws. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, immigration is not a scourge and multiculturalism is a fact which we need not to tolerate but to welcome, and not with words but with deeds.
Fundamental integration should not be interpreted as the integration and full assimilation of immigrants, nor as an offer of privileges which uphold and maintain a discriminatory system which may strengthen racist and xenophobic behaviour.
The objective of integration presupposes a two-way relationship of offer and dialogue, exchange and interaction, understanding and mutual respect of the citizens of Europe as a whole.
It is impossible, without the safeguarding of equal access to employment, to state education and to the national health system, in an environment which is not characterised by divisions between immigrants and non-immigrants, for the citizens of Europe, irrespective of origin, to benefit as a whole from the prosperity of an advanced social and economic area.
To close, I want to remind everyone that integration is not only an objective for immigrants, but the duty of each and every one of their fellow European citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, any society needs an influx of fresh blood, but there is the question of the impact of newcomers on society.
That is due, at least in part, to the EU, as powerful fishing fleets armed with licenses granted by the votes of this House plunder their waters, reducing people already badly off to abject poverty.
Migration is mainly economic and the pressure to migrate decreases as the prosperity of undeveloped countries improves.
Unfortunately, for all its fine words, the EU stands in the way, consumed with protecting European producers.
A new criterion for legal immigration should also be the needs of the host country, as France recently proposed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Frattini, I congratulate you, but only you.
It would be superfluous for us to carry on singing a monotonous song of arguments to explain the crisis that this human tragedy is bringing to the affected countries as well as its effect on the dignity of migrants.
The Union has done too little too late, and when one sees that the Union has not made much progress in dealing with illegal immigration, one begins to doubt the extent of the concrete action it will take in this regard.
We augur that we will see words translated into action, so that as President Barroso said this very morning, we will change our gear in order to perhaps finally make the step from reflection to action. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that problems associated with migratory flows cannot be resolved at national level.
The Union deals with capital and the movement of commodities, but does not pay attention to those who see Europe as a dream of a decent life.
I therefore support greater transparency and the broad thrust of the proposals put forward by Mr&#160;Lambrinidis.
This is what must be changed, and footballers should not be exempt. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the current discussion on the integration of immigrants in the European Union is a consequence of the immigration policy to date.
Multiracialism and multiculturalism within society also means multiplicity of conflicts.
An error in the old policy is the fact that for many years it restricted immigration from the countries of Eastern Europe, whose populations are culturally close to the rest of Europe.
We in Poland despair at the large number of young people who are now leaving the country, but after World War II Western Europe abandoned that part of Europe to communist rule.
For decades we were deprived of the opportunity for normal economic development. &#160;&#160; Mr President, sustained immigration is a fact for many Member States, and when managed, it has aided economic output, although it would be foolish to deny that, on occasions, problems of a social or other nature ensue.
I should like to take the opportunity of this debate to condemn unreservedly a series of racist attacks that have occurred in my constituency of Northern Ireland.
It is not acceptable for some countries to engage in so-called regularisation of their illegal immigrants and thereby qualify them for free movement to other Member States. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, you are aware that last week the influx of irregular immigrants alarmingly exacerbated the situation in Malta.
If things continue like this, the number of people who arrived last year, which was a record year, could be doubled.
Last week there was a riot, as my colleagues mentioned, with four hundred immigrants escaping from a detention centre and making a protest march towards the office of the Prime Minister, asking to be sent to another European country.
This evening I would like to give Commissioner Frattini a message to deliver, and I also hope that some Council official takes note of it and mentions it to the Finnish Presidency.
Here in this Chamber we have talked about so many things; this great European Union values the rights of all, even those who launch attacks, except those of thousands of people held in Malta.
Commissioner Frattini, if this European Council, this European Union really does want to avoid being hypocritical about Malta, it must remove these people, who have been held there for months or even years.
Malta is not in any position to solve the problem.
Let us have these prisoners transferred out of Malta to other far larger EU countries. &#160;&#160; Almost three months have passed since this Parliament approved a very important resolution.
The resolution listed the problems which Malta is facing as a result of illegal immigration.
A resolution which offered plausible solutions, but which has unfortunately been ignored by both the Commission and the Council of Ministers.
The problem we have before us today is much more critical and acute than it was at that time; unfortunately, the Commission's efforts up to now have been at a minimum and almost without any effect, and we cannot say that we have seen any positive steps taken since that time.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Members from Malta are right in that we have had to face a series of similar situations; but they are aware that recently a Commission technical mission went to Malta and made contact with the government there.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12:00. &#160;&#160; I want to take this opportunity to bring to the attention of the European Parliament the plight of both the Maltese and the irregular immigrants in Malta.
But we have been left to our fate.
I am sure that then, like a jack in-the-box, the principle of solidarity will re-emerge. &#160;&#160; In every EU country today, there is the same admission of failure regarding the integration of what has become a universal form of ‘population-swelling immigration’.
The solution is not, as the report proposes, to create yet another European fund, which is dedicated, this time, to the integration of third country nationals, or to create additional programmes emphasising the promotion of immigration and diversity within the EU, or to encourage immigrants to take part in politics, particularly by granting them the right to vote in local and municipal elections.
Nor is it to ask the Council to use the ‘bridging clause’ in accordance with Article&#160;67(2) of the Treaty, in order to confer on Parliament codecision powers relating to integration and legal immigration.
The European strategy must be confined to the drafting of partnership agreements with countries of origin in favour of a return policy, and, lastly, it must be focused on strengthening its controls at its external borders. &#160;&#160; We welcome the Commission's proposal because the aim of introducing a mutual information system in the area of asylum and migration is to avoid tensions between Member States and reinforce cooperation.
Handling coordination at a political level may create a forum for governments to reach agreement before making decisions, and therefore, bring laws in Member States closer together.
One can hardly believe it when one sees that, on account of its initiator, the Interior Minister, Mr&#160;Sarkozy, France is the champion of selective immigration and of positive discrimination in favour of visible minorities, as opposed, I imagine, to the 'invisible' European indigenous majority, and when one knows that foreigners living illegally in France are housed in reception centres or in hotels, are fed and have their children schooled and that they benefit from free state medical assistance, which is not the case for ethnic French people who, for their part, very often have to fend for themselves when it comes to finding somewhere to live, putting food on the table and working.
The problems experienced by immigrants are the same throughout Europe.
Fifteen years later, our integration problem has lost most of its acuteness.
Estonia’s experience shows that the establishment of clear rules of the game and the association of integration with definite and tangible benefits can help overcome greater difficulties.
Many of the measures suggested in the report are necessary.
We should definitely involve representatives of immigrant groups as broadly as possible.
This will also be our last meeting before the International AIDS Conference which will take place in August in Toronto.
As you know, Toronto will offer the Commission a first rate platform to express its vision for dealing with the scourge of HIV/AIDS.
The European Commission obviously remains very concerned about the problem of HIV/AIDS.
The countries most affected are still the poorest countries of sub-Saharan Africa, where the rate of infection is not falling and where the disease continues to undermine any prospect of human, social and economic development worthy of the name.
Faced with this tragedy, the European Commission is more determined than ever to vigorously support its partners in Africa and elsewhere.
First of all, the fight against HIV/AIDS cannot be dissociated from the fight against other diseases that are also linked to poverty, notably malaria and tuberculosis.
Furthermore, HIV/AIDS brutally exposes all the biggest challenges for development: limited access to social services, exaggerated inequalities – whether social or between men and women – bad government and corruption, as well as the persistently extremely low level of economic and technological development.
The only way that HIV/AIDS can be combated successfully is if the leaders of developing countries address all these problems at the same time.
This integrated approach to HIV/AIDS is the principal driving force for the Community’s action, and it also forms the basis of our approach in concert with the Member States, and also with our other partners at the heart of the international community.
The main financial instrument to which the Commission has recourse is the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, which devotes around 57% of its resources to the fight against HIV/AIDS.
Since the creation of the Global Fund at the end of&#160;2001, the Commission has contributed up to EUR&#160;522&#160;million, or 11% of the total contributions.
This approach is in accordance with our priority, which is to let our partners take control of their own policy and thus their own destiny.
We are of course involved in an ongoing political dialogue with our partners regarding the use of these funds.
This dialogue also aims at encouraging them to implement an integrated approach – I mean, in particular, by including questions regarding human rights and good governance.
In addition to these efforts through the Global Fund and through bilateral action, the Commission is actively participating in international forums for dealing with poverty-related illnesses – I am thinking in particular here of the World Trade Organisation, of the United Nations General Assembly special session on HIV/AIDS, of the G8, and of conferences like the one in Toronto as well.
The Commission has played a decisive role in making sure that on these occasions the European Union speaks with a united voice on this question.
We are engaged in research ourselves, in cooperation with industry and with the research centres of Member States, and our efforts are in particular directed towards finding microbicides and vaccines.
We have also launched a partnership to coordinate the research programmes of Member States in order to accelerate clinical testing and thereby to ensure that medications may be put onto the market more rapidly.
We are also glad to see increasing contributions from private foundations, such as the Bill Gates Foundation, to the fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
The creativity of these solutions, as well as the increasing involvement of the private sector, give me cause to hope.
I am delighted to be able to continue to collaborate with the European Parliament in order to turn this objective into reality.
We all know those figures that we quote in every debate, the 40 million people living with AIDS, the 20 million who have died from AIDS, the 12 million AIDS orphans, the 2.5 million children living with AIDS, but there are new aspects.
Only one in twenty HIV-positive children are receiving the treatment they need, and the Global Movement for Children recently reported that four million children are desperately in need of Cotrimoxazole, the antibiotic costing just three cents per child per day that could prevent life-threatening infections in children with HIV and those born to HIV-positive mothers.
Closer to home, on our doorstep, we see the figures in Eastern Europe and Central Asia, where the numbers infected have increased almost 20-fold in less than a decade, and between 2003 and 2005 the number killed by AIDS has almost doubled.
Lastly, we need to see investment in research.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament was relieved when the High-Level UN meeting on HIV/AIDS in New York recently stated that there needs to be a great deal of catching-up if the objective of universal access to the prevention of HIV, its treatment and attendant care for all people is to be achieved.
The 6% for human and social development within the new development cooperation instrument is, to our mind, just a little too low.
Fourthly, we would very much welcome it if the Commission were to provide active support to those developing countries that commit themselves to prioritising basic health care and the fight against HIV/AIDS.
As the UN report on AIDS states, we know what needs to be done in order to stop AIDS in its tracks.
The UN’s 2006 report on AIDS shows successes being achieved in all countries where enormous efforts are made at prevention, but it also shows that there are massive deficiencies in the prevention and combating of HIV/AIDS.
Efforts at informing young people are still inadequate, and that really is very disturbing indeed when one considers that there are more young people alive now than ever before, and that young people are more vulnerable to infection than other age groups.
My second observation is that I agree, of course, with Mr&#160;Bowis who argues in favour of strengthening research in this area.
It is clear that research will ultimately enable us to gain a great deal of time in our efforts to eradicate this terrible evil once and for all.
Therefore, when we give the states in question the means to reinforce their service capacities in a general sense, then it is quite understandable that this money will also help to meet the Millennium Goals.
I should also say that a number of Member States of the European Union set a good example in London and have made real efforts concerning the sums.
I agree with you that we must provide more significant support to benefit those countries which especially make particular efforts, even if AIDS does not, unfortunately, recognise borders.
Moreover, as you know, the 10th European Development Fund provides a special instalment which is, precisely, intended to supply additional means in a significant quantity relative to the initially planned sum, depending on governance, on performance and also depending on, for example, investment dedicated by partner countries to the fight against AIDS.
In any case, it seemed to us that it was even more important for the international community to have a truly coherent communal strategy, based on a methodology that would be consistent across the board in order to deal with the problem as a whole.
The Commission’s policy has been to try to make payments into the Global Fund in order that there might be a 'thinking head' capable of generating a global strategy.
Besides, I am not the one who decides – the administration submits its conclusions to me, and it is, unfortunately, not possible for me to study each application individually.
If we could truly succeed with this common programming initiative, in other words collectively agree on common objectives and decide on how to share out the work between us, then I think we would be much more effective, particularly in fighting the terrible disease of AIDS.
Therefore, if we had a common programme, we could then perhaps implement a more refined strategy that would engage in a more direct way with the specific aspects - and even local aspects - of this problem. &#160;&#160; I have received six motions for resolution(1) to wind up the debate tabled under Rule 103(2).
The debate is closed.
