This was expressed clearly in the declaration by the Presidency on behalf of the EU on 18 September, and also in the EU's positions stated at the meeting of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in September and within the framework of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in July.
It is the parties themselves which have the key roles in the Transnistrian peace process.
The European Neighbourhood Policy Action Plan between the EU and Moldova is the instrument that will enable the Union to lend purposeful, long-term support to Moldova.
In its conclusions of 17 October, the EU appealed to both Russia and Georgia to do their utmost not only to improve their bilateral relations but also to concentrate their efforts on finding a peaceful settlement to the conflicts.
The current situation in South Ossetia is tense.
On 12 November a referendum will be held in the region for the purpose of consolidating the region's independence.
The EU Member States and the Commission made a significant contribution to the Donor Conference on Economic Rehabilitation for South Ossetia, which was held in Brussels in June.
A significant international programme on economic rehabilitation will be started in South Ossetia this autumn, using funds collected at the conference.
The latest espionage scandal, however, has acutely exacerbated the already strained relations between Georgia and Russia.
During its visit to Tbilisi on 2 October the EU Troika also stated that the EU is prepared to help Georgia resolve its conflicts by means of the European Neighbourhood Policy.
A joint ENP Action Plan between the EU and Georgia has just been drawn up, which the EU-Georgia Cooperation Council will adopt formally at its meeting in Brussels on 14 November.
The ENP Action Plan also contains a separate section on the resolution of the conflicts in Georgia.
The forthcoming Foreign Ministers' Permanent Partnership Council on 3 November and the EU-Russia Summit in Helsinki on 24 November will enable further discussions to be held on these issues.
Let me also mention that the OSCE played a very helpful role in refusing to observe and recognise the referendum in Transnistria and also in returning the Russian officers from Georgia to Russia.
We are highly concerned about the crisis in relations between Georgia and Russia, especially the continuing tensions between the two countries.
We have made a significant financial contribution to assist a peaceful settlement, including a EUR 9.5 million economic rehabilitation programme in South Ossetia.
I think the European Union as a whole has a very important role in supporting any peace settlement.
Earlier this year we also witnessed the failure of negotiations concerning the status of Transnistria in the 5+2 format as the Transnistrian authorities withdrew from these negotiations.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, we are faced with a number of ongoing, frozen conflicts in the common neighbourhood which the European Union shares with Russia.
Both events are incompatible with the commitment to finding a political solution to these conflicts within the framework of the OSCE.
I think that the EU should hold firm to a plan of negotiations in a multilateral framework whereby the territorial integrity of Moldova and Georgia should be taken as read.
The active support Russia is giving the regime in Transnistria and the referenda, as well as the support to the separatist movement in South-Ossetia and Abkhazia do not, unfortunately, fall within this category.
On 10 October, Transnistria rejected a compromise plan put forward by the OSCE, under the leadership of the Belgian Foreign Minister, Karel de Gucht.
Instead, the deadlock between Transnistria and Moldova will continue to threaten both political and economic stability in this part of Europe.
At the same time, I also call on Moscow to espouse more progressive policies in settling this dispute, because a more constructive approach on its part would demonstrate that Russia is serious about establishing a responsible and reliable partnership with the European Union.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, not long ago we were applauding the peaceful revolution in Georgia and encouraging its young leaders to establish true democracy in their country.
That is why we must strongly urge the Georgian authorities to take a conciliatory approach and to constructively relaunch the peace process in South Ossetia.
For example, when, in Lahti last week, he compared South Ossetia to Kosovo, Mr Putin was adding fuel to the flames in the Caucasus, at the very time when he was expected to re-establish trust by normalising relations with his neighbours in Georgia.
I will not even mention the unilateral Russian embargo or the ongoing deportations of Georgians in Russia, which are evidence of a desire to destabilise Georgia.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the European Union we believe in, the European Union of our dreams, the European Union the citizens of Europe want must surely be a Union that defends certain specific values, and does so on the international stage.
In the last few days, we have learnt that works by Georgian artists exhibited in Moscow are being damaged.
I call on the European Union, and on this House, to show unequivocal support for an independent, self-governing Georgia, which has every right to feel safe in a united Europe. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I speak on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party.
The social system in the Republic of Moldova is open both politically and socially, and characterised by co-existence and tolerance.
The conflict over Transnistria is a conflict between Russia and the EU.
First of all, the Transnistrian regime does not seek independence, but rather union with Russia, which lies 800 km away.
Most of them are Moldovans, making up 40 percent of the population, with Ukrainians at nearly 28 percent, and the Russian ethnic group occupying third place.
Fourthly, respecting the integrity of Georgia's territory, the lawfulness of the issue of Russian passports in Abkhazia and South Ossetia should be reviewed, in order to prevent a repetition of the Transnistria scenario.
In this matter, it should and must rely on the solidarity of the Member States of the European Union.
We have been talking in this Chamber today since the morning on relations between the European Union and Russia.
The sheer scope of these relations is reflected in the fact that now even at this point in the proceedings it is EU-Russia relations that have figured prominently in Members' speeches.
The summit held between the EU and Ukraine the day after tomorrow in Helsinki will undoubtedly feature talks on these issues.
The basic principle that the European Union will endeavour to promote a peaceful solution to the crisis between Georgia and Russia and can do so in many ways applies to this crisis in just the same way as it does to many other crises around the world.
With regard to the question of macro-financial assistance, we have just prepared a package of EUR 45 million that will be allocated to Moldova, because it is highly important that we give them special assistance.
We have encouraged the Member States to set up a joint visa application centre in Chisinau.
Let me also say that if there is a possibility of coming up with a mandate at the end of this year, then the visa fee would stay at EUR 35 and not go up to EUR 60, which would be very important for the very poor people of Moldova.
