&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 1&#160;December 2005. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is a good opportunity for the President to make a statement on the death penalty.
I say that this is a good opportunity because, as you know, on 10 December — two days ago — we celebrated the anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights.
In 76 countries, however, the death sentence remains, and, in 24 countries, although it is effectively abolished, since there have been no executions for 10 years, it remains on the statute books.
According to Amnesty International, in 2004, 7&#160;400 people were sentenced to death and in 25 countries almost 3&#160;800 people were executed.
The United States is therefore the only democratic country that still applies the death penalty in a significant manner; 3&#160;400 people are awaiting execution in its prisons.
One significant fact is that 120 people sentenced to death have been released before execution because their innocence has been proven.
I wished to remind you of this situation, because I believe that we parliamentarians must work to convince our counterparts in all countries that the death penalty must be abolished, because for us Europeans life is an inalienable right and nobody can be deprived of that right regardless of the crimes of which they are guilty.
Thank you very much for your attention. &#160;&#160; The final version of the draft agenda, as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of Thursday 8 December 2005 pursuant to Rules 130 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have a request to make in relation to the agenda for Wednesday.
I find it unacceptable that a Head of State should come out with utterances, in more or less plain and frank language, questioning the right of a state, and of a whole people, to exist, and going so far as to incite a breach of the peace in the region and the opening of the door to violence in it.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe has made a request calling for the title of the debate ‘Detention of monks and closure of a monastery in Tibet’ to be replaced with ‘The Human Rights Situation in Tibet and Hong Kong’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would be pleased to justify the request very briefly.
My group had sought a motion on Hong Kong in view of the recent statements there by the government of the territory, which suggest that there is not to be any movement towards universal suffrage.
China needs to understand that this attempt to build democracy in Hong Kong would also bring great benefits to China itself.
With this in mind, we endorse this request. &#160;&#160; The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe is also asking that the title of the debate on ‘Ethiopia’, as it appears in the debates on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, be replaced with ‘Ethiopia and new border conflicts’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my Group should like to propose changing the title to: ‘Ethiopia and new border conflicts’.
I have personally received detailed information on the activities of the mothers and wives of political prisoners from Mrs Gisela Sánchez Verdecia, the wife of Cuban prisoner Antonio Díaz Sánchez, whom I have symbolically adopted together with my colleagues, MEPs Peter Šťastný and Milan Gaľo.
I would like to express my deep solidarity with this group of Cuban women in their valiant fight for the liberation of all political prisoners.
Let us put a stop to national self-interest and to the anachronistic benefits enjoyed by certain Member States.
The European project and the solidarity we require with our new partners depend on our doing so. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, a cement carrier, the , sank on 2 December off the port of La Spezia, in the Poets’ Gulf, which is a magnificent gulf in the Mediterranean.
The possibility of carrying out a post-incident technical investigation to ascertain the causes of the incident and those responsible should therefore be reviewed, and this case should also be considered within the Erika II policy package, so that it can genuinely be said that those responsible for carrying out the checks will themselves be checked. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, even though the report on the request for defence of immunity and privileges of my colleague, Mr&#160;Gollnisch, will be debated shortly, I take the liberty of bringing up a particularly topical point.
In these conditions, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you not to plumb the depths of absurdity by adopting this report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to draw your attention to an episode which took place last week in Miami in the United States and on which I believe that, as a Chamber, we need to take a stand.
I therefore believe that, as a Chamber, we need to condemn such action and do our best to ensure that any legislation passed by this plenary is in favour of the citizen and not in favour of the use of violence. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the ‘Women in White’, who have been awarded the Sakharov Prize, as has been pointed out here this afternoon, have not been able to use the tickets that the European Parliament has made available to them so that they could come to pick up the prize on Wednesday, because they have not been authorised by the Cuban Government, which is a flagrant violation of these people’s rights and ignores, Mr President, the majority will of this Parliament.
Their only crime has been courageously and peacefully to defend the rights of their relatives and I therefore believe, Mr President, that we, as representatives of the European Parliament, should make every effort to ensure that they can be here and collect the Sakharov Prize on Wednesday. &#160;&#160; Mr Salafranca, you may rest assured that the Presidency and all the bodies of Parliament have done everything they can to put pressure on the Cuban authorities and ensure that this permission is granted.
Minutes before entering the Chamber, I spoke once again to the recently appointed Cuban Ambassador to the European Union, who has presented his letters of credence this morning to the Presidency-in-Office of the Council, and I hope to be able to speak to the Cuban Foreign Minister this afternoon.
This is particularly true as regards the situation in Poland, where unemployment stands at 20% and Polish people have lost their jobs as a result of the removal of obstacles to the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital.
Such musings are truly paradoxical in the run-up to Christmas, particularly in view of the fact that Christian values are being rejected, along with the knowledge of the truth that sets us free.
I hope that this truth will be fulfilled, and that this Christmas and New Year will be filled with hope and love. &#160;&#160; Mr President, at this time of looming budget crises and an increasingly depressing outlook for the Hong Kong talks, I would like to bring to the attention of the House an EU success story.
As a proud Scot, I would like to see a specific Scottish presence in cyberspace and I believe your own country, Mr President, has shown us the way with the ‘puntCAT’ designation, which you so recently achieved for Catalonia.
I would like to lend my support to the ‘.sco’ campaign, as a wider presence for Scottish language and culture in cyberspace could only be helpful for us.
The OSCE also contradicted the previous statement of the Members of this House following last year’s parliamentary election, which concluded that the Kazakh electorate is now sophisticated and beyond coercion or intimidation.
On 20 December, in Brussels, we will speak to you once again.
The Commission announced the objective of introducing, as far as possible, a gradual approach to the recovery of fish stocks that allows fishermen to pursue their activities.
The fisheries sector, particularly in Portugal, has already been severely hit by, among other factors, the increase in fuel prices.
I therefore call for Community-level measures to be implemented in order to safeguard the future of the sector, not least because this is a common policy for supporting the income of fishermen, in particular those involved in small-scale coastal fishing. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, work began several days ago on the construction of the Northern Gas Pipeline.
The construction of this gas pipeline could cause an environmental disaster in the Baltic region.
I propose that a parliamentary committee should be appointed to investigate the issues surrounding the construction of this gas pipeline, as well as the threat that it poses to the environment and to the energy security of many EU Member States. &#160;&#160; You are aware of the procedures in place for calling formally for the creation of such a committee.
The European Union cannot develop further without solidarity. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make an appeal to the Union’s institutions, be they the Commission, Parliament or the Council, because the Italian Court of Appeal – which is, accordingly, a high judicial authority in Italy – has just considered, in a judgment issued following an act of aggression by an Italian towards some young Colombian girls, that the term ‘dirty nigger’ did not constitute a racist insult, but merely a generic show of hostility.
It is pointless telling you that those words are particularly alarming.
I believe that the Member States must not be party to acts of torture carried out in non-EU countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to make some remarks concerning the enlargement of the WTO.
Since then, no authorisation has been given to go and visit these women and this man in prison in Libya.
Since then – and this is my final point – four weeks have gone by in the lives of this man and these women who have been accused and tortured and who, for seven years, have been waiting to be treated fairly, in accordance with their human rights.
Mr&#160;President, for as long as they remain imprisoned, we must go on pointing this out. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, almost 18&#160;months have passed since the last elections to the European Parliament.
Enough time has therefore gone by for us to have formed opinions on the way Parliament operates, and on the role and significance of the European Union.
Decisions were taken on this matter while the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was still drafting Parliament’s opinion.
A large part of the responsibility for this dismissive treatment of Parliament and its Members lies with the main groups in the House.
A situation has arisen in which the work carried out by Members from small or new Member States is increasingly meaningless.
Members from these countries find it enormously difficult to get their names onto the list of speakers, and their proposals and amendments are more often than not rejected, either by the leading delegations within the House or by the European Commission.
This gives rise to some fundamental questions, such as where we are heading and what the point of our work is. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the last few days, dumbfounded European citizens have been following accusations about the CIA's secret detention centres in Europe, about the kidnapping of terrorist suspects, about secret flights by American aeroplanes and about torture chambers.
It is, at the same time, ironic that these discoveries coincide with the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Nonetheless, this is the first time that two of the most important rights – security and freedom – have clashed in the international arena to such an extent and intensity, crushing human rights between them.
The European Parliament, the institution that represents European citizens, has at the very least an obligation to raise itself up to its full height and safeguard the feeling of freedom and security of the citizens of Europe. &#160;&#160; Forgive me for interrupting you, but the time scheduled for these speeches has run out. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on a point of order, may I suggest that you extend the time available for this one-minute speech? &#160;&#160; Yes, I believe it is right to do that, but we have already done so: we have already extended it for half an hour; we can extend it further, if necessary, but we have already, rather than half an hour, extended it for three quarters of an hour in fact.
Members who have not been able to speak will have priority next time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I do not propose to prolong this issue, but I believe that the rules you are implementing in relation to these one-minute speeches are undermining their effectiveness and importance to individual Members of this House, many of whom, because they come from small delegations, have little or no opportunity to put on record constituents’ current concerns.
I will write to you about my concerns on this, but I believe in the importance of the one-minute interventions.
I would appreciate it if you would be open to amending the way in which this matter is being handled. &#160;&#160; Mr De Rossa, I am prepared to change the rules we have established.
I should also like to thank him for his courtesy and cooperation with the committee’s inquiries.
The committee felt that the circumstances in which he had used the words complained of by the French prosecutor were not circumstances where it could be said fairly and squarely that he was only exercising his mandate as a Member of this House or carrying out his duties as a Member of this House.
That being the case, it was not within the remit of the committee to enquire any further, and the committee made its decision on that basis.
I decided not to shirk my responsibilities in order to tell Mr&#160;Gollnisch, publicly and quite frankly, why I will not defend his immunity.
Mrs&#160;Wallis’ report is balanced.
The request for defence of immunity, which was put together with your consent, Mr&#160;Gollnisch, is halfway between a call for help with no legal basis, given that this procedure does not in any way threaten to prevent you from carrying out your duties, and, as I see it, a baffling attempt to shirk your responsibilities, just as though you were at last overcome with panic at the thought of what you knowingly triggered off and clearly no longer control.
There are various members of the Legal Affairs Committee who deal with immunity cases, but I believe that this case was a particularly difficult and delicate one, which demanded very careful consideration on the Committee’s part; nor do I believe, if I read the signs rightly, that this was particularly easy for her personally.
I would like these remarks to be taken as honouring her memory. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the report by Mrs&#160;Wallis on Mr&#160;Gollnisch’s request for defence of immunity is, both in its form and its content, truly scandalous.
It is scandalous because the legal rules and the settled case-law of our Rules of Procedure and of the Committee on Legal Affairs have never before been so warped and violated.
It is scandalous because the matter presented before the Committee on Legal Affairs was the subject of unprecedented politicisation and political pressure on the part of Mr&#160;Gollnisch’s political opponents.
It has taken no less than four draft reports, all differing each time in their conclusions and reasoning, to come up with the report presented before us today in plenary, which is not, I might add, the report of which the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs had voted in favour, as the reasons behind the decision proposed by Mrs&#160;Wallis have subsequently been amended.
The written invitation to Mr&#160;Gollnisch’s press conference mentioned, next to his name, his status as a Member of the European Parliament.
The majority of the press reports referred to his status as a Member of the European Parliament.
The settled case-law of the Committee on Legal Affairs in relation to opinions voiced by Members of the European Parliament tends, in this case, towards the systematic protection of immunity.
Make no mistake: if this report were to be adopted in plenary, the freedom of expression of all Members of the European Parliament would be restricted and subject to the discretion of others; a new interpretation of the waiver of immunity for opinions voiced by Members in the course of their duties would be adopted; and Europe’s oh so precious democracy and fundamental values would lose their hauteur. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that it should at last be possible for us to voice our opinions on Mr&#160;Gollnisch’s immunity, as this series of postponements of our vote has lasted too long.
The first, and by no means least important, reason is that Mr&#160;Gollnisch did not make the incriminating remarks as a Member of the European Parliament.
The second reason is that, in the case in point, the values of the European Union that we, as Members of the European Parliament, are supposed to defend, have been scorned.
That is a bit rich when viewed in the light of the extremely shocking remarks he made in, I am convinced, full knowledge of the blows he was dealing to our democracy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Article 7 states that I cannot speak in the debate.
I do not intend to speak in the debate, but Article 7 allows me nonetheless to correct an inaccurate allegation.
If you will allow me, Mr&#160;President, and without my speaking in the debate, the outcome of which is, in any case, a foregone conclusion, I should like, as provided for by Article 7, to speak for three minutes on the basis of Article 145 in order to voice my opinion on accusations directed at me personally.
I believe that these two clarifications are, Mr&#160;President, extremely important.
It will be interesting to see what Mr&#160;Toubon has to say on the subject of my immunity.
That is all I had to say to this Assembly. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the recommendation for second reading on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators and repealing Directive 91/157/EEC (5694/5/2005 – C6-0268/2005 – 2003/0282(COD)) – Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
Rapporteur: Joahnnes Blokland (A6-0335/2005). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the report on batteries and accumulators has been adopted by a large majority in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
First of all, Amendment 42 confines the cadmium ban to portable batteries; the ban does not, therefore, apply to any industrial batteries whatever.
These alternatives have been widely available for nearly 10 years.
The Council’s common position remains vague in some aspects of the definition of portable batteries.
Amendment 12 specifies a maximum weight of 1 kg for portable batteries.
Moreover, Amendment 12 makes the link with consumer applications as defined in the directive on electronic waste.
In order to avoid both a loophole and an overlap in the definitions, the Committee on the Environment has proposed in Amendment 13 a mirror definition of portable batteries by way of defining industrial batteries.
The Committee on the Environment is of the opinion that Amendments 12 and 13 afford most clarity about those definitions.
I take the view that we must uphold producer responsibility and am therefore opposed to Amendment 44.
Amendments 18 and 40 ban the integration of batteries and introduce the requirement that batteries should be easy to remove.
Moreover, this provision is superfluous, since the directive on electronic waste already stipulates that batteries should always be removed before electrical appliances are collected.
In its proposal, the Commission introduced the concept of a ‘closed-loop system’, on the basis of which all batteries would have to be collected and recycled and their metals re-introduced into the economic cycle.
At the same time, the proposal aimed to contribute to a proper functioning of the internal market for batteries and create a level playing field of all economic operators involved.
The Council also considered that the proposed closed-loop system would be difficult to achieve in practice and favoured a ban on the use of cadmium in portable batteries.
The Commission has accepted the overall package of the common position as a well-balanced package, on the condition that the level of environmental protection should not be lowered compared to the policy measures contained in the Commission’s original proposal.
However, the Commission remains convinced that the dual legal basis in the common position is the right approach and will not give rise to problems foreseen by some in Parliament.
Let us be frank about this: as the Commission impact assessment states, only six Member States currently have a national system of collecting small batteries for recycling – Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Holland and Sweden.
The report now calls for higher targets: 40% after 6&#160;years and 50% after 12&#160;years.
We believe that any such moves need to comply in the first instance with the common approach to impact assessment, recently agreed between the Commission, Council and Parliament.
Finally, as far as the legal base is concerned, we support the proposal that the directive should be based on Articles&#160;175 and 95.
He has tabled many amendments supported by our group.
This directive has as its priority objective the reduction and avoidance of waste batteries, but we cannot overlook the fact that it is also an example of product-oriented legislation for the internal market.
The fact that it has Article 175 as its sole legal basis could result in varying standards and hence in distortions of competition and of the market.
It is for that reason that the Liberals support Articles 95 and 175 as a dual legal basis, and in so doing we are doing as the Legal Affairs Committee has recommended.
In both the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and the Council, a ban on cadmium and mercury was adopted only in relation to portable batteries.
In the case of rechargeable batteries and accumulators, which amount in any case to only a very small quantity of waste, we have to consider other characteristics as well, such as energy efficiency, useful life and, of course, the price that the consumer has to pay for them.
Let me conclude by considering the collection targets.
In Germany, over ten years of all-out effort have enabled us to achieve 35%.
It follows that it is important that we review the collection targets in six years’ time and, in so doing, learn from the experience and best practice in the Member States.
It is about an environmental issue, and Article 175 is the natural legal base.
Swedish consumer organisations have looked at nickel metal hydride batteries after 500 chargings.
It is new battery technology that benefits the consumer and is good for the environment.
In contrast, old technology makes things worse for consumers and the environment.
What we are concerned with at present is batteries, and cadmium in batteries needs to be got rid of. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the process of storing and releasing energy requires the presence of many metals and toxic compounds that play a part in the functioning of batteries and accumulators.
Battery collection schemes have been a success in several Member States thanks to diverse and long-standing endeavours.
Poland is starting from a much less advantageous position where such collections are concerned, however, as it is less advanced in terms of technology and information provision.
At the same time, however, some of the changes could make accumulator manufacturers in the EU much less competitive than manufacturers outside Europe who do not have to comply with such restrictive regulations.
The end result of this could be a threat to the environment and to the health of users, in particular young children. &#160;&#160; –The primary aim of this directive is to minimise the negative impact of batteries and accumulators and their waste, in order to help protect the environment and improve the quality of the environment.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for raising this issue and for producing the report.
The primary emphasis of the directive should be on the stimulation and development of research for suitable substitutes, not on the restrictive prohibition of batteries containing dangerous substances, such as lead, nickel, cadmium, or zinc.
Our decision must be based on scientific knowledge, and we should carefully consider the consequences before taking it.
Finally, I would like to voice an opinion on the issue of legal basis.
Of course, it is necessary to protect the environment, but reliance on Article 175 as the sole legal basis may lead to unfair competition through the application of different legal standards in different Member States.
With our current waste material technologies, these substances, when burned or disposed of, will sooner or later find their way into our bodies, accumulate and cause severe diseases.
The current practice of a few Member States in this respect is strongly questionable.
Like other sectors, the REACH Directive excludes batteries, on the grounds that a suitable directive must precisely enable us to gauge the work done by Parliament.
I therefore call on you to accept Amendment 4, tabled by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, which proposes that, in the event of an alternative technology for industrial batteries appearing on the market, a revision of the directive be got under way.
To this end we would need to set up a system of verification. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr&#160;Blokland, and to underline the enormous significance that a directive on batteries and accumulators and spent batteries and accumulators holds for environmental protection.
There are many instances of metals similar to those used in batteries and accumulators being found during tests carried out on people living in environmentally sensitive areas and on the water sources in such areas.
Legal and financial measures must be put in place to promote the collection of batteries, and we must foster a culture in which the public acquires the habit of doing so.
In particular, technical progress must be promoted in the field of battery production, in order to ensure that batteries are safe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Blokland deserves our warm thanks for this good, thorough and careful report for second reading.
This alteration now further renders harmless, reduces and, to some degree, prohibits these materials and their percentages by weight in batteries of whatever kind.
It has to be admitted that the collection quotas are very high, and the demands made on industry, the general public and the trade very considerable.
The debate as to whether it makes more sense to define collection targets in terms of weight or number of items strikes me as purely academic.
I have no objection to the joint legal basis using Articles 95 and 175 of the Treaties, or to the Council’s Common Position.
We need a study on this issue before we move to any further legislation.
We need to get targets down to a level that countries can meet at some point in the future and work out how to get there.
Certain batteries would therefore, in all likelihood, become de facto casualties of the ban, such as those used in breathing apparatus systems employed in toxic atmospheres, lamps for individual or collective use in the mining sector, and so on. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to thank Mr Blokland for his very interesting report.
Clearly, the present directive of 1991 leads to insufficient results in this field, precisely because it does not contain any firm targets for collection and recycling.
Secondly, I should like to urge all parties involved to take on their share of responsibility.
Finally, I should like to appeal for legal certainty for the sector, as regards the use of cadmium in both batteries and power tools, for which I propose a transitional period of four years.
I hope that many Members will be able to endorse this package. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to start by extending warm thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Blokland, for the work he has done.
As a substitute for that, I prefer to back the Common Position and Mr Krahmer’s Amendment 45, which make provision for a review of the derogation from the ban for nickel-cadmium batteries in power tools after four and seven and a half years respectively.
While there are already, in many areas, technological alternatives to nickel-cadmium on the market, nickel-metal hybrids being one example, these alternatives cannot as yet be regarded as equivalent to nickel-cadmium, as demonstrated, , by various differences, for example the fact that the lifetime of nickel-cadmium batteries is longer than that of their nickel-metal hybrid counterparts, and they are less susceptible to faults and defects.
Nickel-cadmium batteries can be charged up more quickly and discharge themselves much more slowly when out of use.
I will close by expressing my support for Articles 95 and 175 as a dual legal basis. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur.
If it is possible to collect batteries in some Member States, then what is stopping the others from increasing their efforts?
The text submitted to us for adoption refers to a minimum recycling objective per inhabitant per year of 160&#160;grams; in 2004, this proportion stood at 245&#160;grams per inhabitant in Luxembourg.
Indeed, the directive aims at achieving both a high level of environmental protection and contributing to the proper functioning of the internal market.
Indeed, the articles laying down provisions for the environmental protection are based on Article&#160;175 of the EC Treaty.
The articles laying down provisions related to the proper functioning of the internal market – namely Articles&#160;4, 5 and 18 of the proposed directive – are based on Article&#160;95 of the Treaty.
The Commission believes that setting collection targets in the proposed directive is necessary: firstly to ensure a minimum level of environmental protection in all Member States and secondly to monitor the efficiency of the national battery-collection schemes.
It is important that the collection targets are ambitious in environmental terms, but they should also be achievable, realistic and cost-efficient.
The Commission thus in principle supports Amendment&#160;26 but reserves its opinion on Amendment&#160;56.
I believe that the European Parliament and the Council can now start moving towards agreement on this file.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; In some Member States, such as Hungary, the collection of spent batteries and accumulators may be a newly introduced activity, but at the same time, it is also a long-term environmental protection investment.
This proposal is an essential complement to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive – known as ‘MiFID’, which is most probably the most important piece of EU legislation recently adopted in the field of European securities law.
This proposal responds to a justified and legitimate request expressed by the industry and supported by all Member States and securities regulators.
A series of improvements and clarifications concerning the various deadlines have been made, during negotiations in the European Parliament and the Council, to the text proposed by the Commission, and cooperation has been excellent between the three institutions.
These technical rules are complex and will not be adopted before May 2006.
This codecision proposal is about extending the date of entry of MiFID, not about the wider question of the powers of the Council and the European Parliament in the comitology procedures.
Discussions are under way in the Council and I understand the European Parliament is working on its negotiating position.
So, with the greatest respect, and in full understanding of Parliament’s overall position, I consider that the amendments put forward on comitology and on the sunset clause are neither necessary nor appropriate in the context of this proposal.
The same can be said about the comitology procedure and the sunset clause.
Firstly, it is intended to amend a Parliament and Council directive on markets in financial instruments.
It follows that the changes we are making to the directive on markets in financial instruments are of form rather than of substance.
I have to tell the Commissioner that I find his first objection incomprehensible.
We hope that the Commission will exert appropriate influence on the Council – indeed, we rely on it doing so.
There is a procedural issue here: you are aware of the conditions in which the European Parliament accepted the Lamfalussy Process.
Something tells me that, for the first time, the European Parliament, as a result of having examined the level 2 measures contained in this directive, will have the opportunity to exercise its rights in full, hence the importance that we give, in this text, to pointing out the conditions in which the European Parliament can, through the sunset clause and the right of call back, intervene again following the implementation of the level 2 measures.
In other areas, I believe that the overall balance in this directive between transparency and opening up to competition is a sufficiently serious matter for Parliament to use all the resources necessary to examine, in credible conditions, the proposals that will be made at level 2 by the Commission.
It is for this reason, Commissioner, that I hope to be able to take advantage of your spirit of openness towards this Parliament and of your willingness to engage in dialogue with it so that I might, at the time when this directive – which is a directive aimed at changing the timetable – is adopted, fully reassert Parliament’s rights in a procedure in which, quite frankly, Parliament’s intervention has always focused on the principles and has never led to an extension of the deadlines, although we can quite imagine the difficulties involved in the other levels intervening on such a complex issue.
We would then need fewer amendments to directives before they come into effect. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the June List supports the proposal concerning the internal market’s four freedoms.
We shall therefore vote in favour of the report.
Parliament is again trying to increase its own power at the expense of the Member States.
The Commission must not be some kind of federal government, and it should in the first place be supervised by the Member States.
They are our main allies in the service of the public interest and in preventing us from being guided by a handful of large market operators or national markets that serve their own interests, which, sadly, was what did sometimes happen at the time when the groundwork for this dossier was being done.
This means that we must be able to continue to play our role.
While the Commission considers that the amendments relating to comitology are legally inappropriate in this context, the Commission will accept them to allow an adoption of this proposal in a single reading.
I understand that this issue will come back and that you will continue to include these amendments in future proposals.
In response to soaring demand and in order to discourage speculation, the Autonomous Government of Valencia adopted a land development law called the (LRAU) in 1994.
The European Parliament has since received thousands of petitions against the application of precisely that law.
They feel powerless in the face of a situation that is highly complex, since it should be remembered that legal and political responsibility in this area is shared between the Spanish Government as regards land law, the autonomous community of Valencia as regards local legislation concerning planning rules, and the municipalities which, on the basis of both Spanish and regional legislation, implement the programmes which they deem legitimate.
I also valued the attention paid to us by the Valencian authorities and their willingness to cooperate.
The problem, however, is that we cannot overstep our authority because we absolutely cannot give the citizens false hopes that will inevitably be dashed.
It already started to respond to our calls on 21&#160;March, by opening infringement proceedings against the Kingdom of Spain for failure to comply with the directive on public procurement.
Our response depends, and has depended, on our temperaments and on our commitments.
I am tempted to tell the European citizens affected by the LRAU that we have heard them, that we are appalled by the situation and that we are here not to judge, but to try to bring pressure to bear to ensure that they are all listened to and respected, and that, in the end, a fair and balanced solution will be found.
I would like to thank all those involved for their work and valuable contributions to this difficult and delicate debate.
Mrs Fourtou’s report touches upon a number of important topics which have attracted the political attention of this House.
The Commission, within the limits of its competences, has looked into this matter mainly from an internal market perspective.
The Commission therefore decided to launch infringement proceedings against Spain on this issue and sent a letter of formal notice on 21&#160;March 2005.
However, the draft new law that was submitted to my services does not correct all problems identified.
In view of this lack of progress, in a few days I plan to send a letter to the competent authorities in Spain asking them to take appropriate measures to remedy the situation.
Therefore, you can count on my commitment to ensure that EU public procurement rules are respected, both in the letter and the practice, of whatever legislation is approved in the future.
Mrs Fourtou’s report also raised a number of other issues of concern, but as they fall outside the scope of Community competence, the Commission is not in a position to address them. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, as a member of the second European Parliament delegation which visited the Spanish authorities in Madrid and the regional and local authorities in the autonomous region of Valencia in June 2005 and met with groups of petitioners, I am obliged to state publicly that all the key players demonstrated an excellent willingness to cooperate with the MEPs and confirmed their understanding and concern for the legitimate, but not for the illegal claims of the citizens.
Unfortunately, when the Fourtou report was voted on in the Committee on Petitions, amendments were slipped into the text which touch on the principle of subsidiarity, together with complaints not accompanied by the relevant proof.
Moreover, we too are trying in turn with our series of amendments to improve the unacceptably didactic and overbearing tone, especially of paragraphs 6 and 11, which are insulting to a Member State.
The amendment to paragraph 11 in particular highlights the more general problem of excessive urbanisation of the shores of the Mediterranean in general and stresses the general nature of environmental protection.
This report is extremely important for a number of reasons, because it seeks to demonstrate to the citizens of Valencia that this European Parliament is not only a law-making body – which of course it is – but also a voice of the people of Europe when their rights are threatened.
The report is already a compromise report and is not as strong as I certainly would like it to be.
Indeed, it is also important that we should seek ways to press the Valencian Government to put a moratorium on new projects, pending the implementation of a satisfactory new law which meets the full requirements of the European Union.
More importantly, perhaps, this is a right that goes to the centre of the European Union.
The value of their property is being wiped out by a development control law that does not seem to be working.
We cannot even apply the Treaty in relation to human rights, neither can we apply the directives on public contracts, the framework directive on water, the strategic environmental assessment directive, without dealing with what the President of the Higher Council of Colleges of Architects this very morning described as the land-planning horror: he said that the Mediterranean coast is bursting at the seams, that the territory is suffering from great overcrowding and an irreversible impact that will leave an excessively serious ecological mark.
The situation facing those non-Spanish nationals in Valencia, including many UK citizens, should be dealt with on a government-to-government basis.
Above all, I am delighted that the petitioners placed their trust in the European Union and in the Committee on Petitions, which I have the honour of chairing.
I am also very glad that the Ombudsman for the region of Valencia offered his assistance during the drafting of the report and during our successful search for a solution to this issue.
The experiences of these people, who had discovered that they had been stripped of part of their possessions without their knowledge, and that their fundamental rights had been grossly violated, were truly appalling.
This report was the outcome of a compromise, and of debates within the Committee on the amendments.
Since it has already been adopted unanimously once, I would be very glad if the House were also to adopt it.
I hope that Commissioner&#160;McCreevy, who is here on behalf of the European Commission, will do his best to ensure that no further injustices take place, and that past wrongs are redressed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I must naturally begin by thanking Mrs&#160;Fourtou for producing this report, a report — as we have said — which has been the subject of much debate and work; let us not forget that this report ― as has also been said here ― has been given exceptional treatment in the Committee on Petitions: two parliamentary delegations have visited the Valencian Country to discuss and deal with this issue.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that the proper solution will come with the disappearance of the LRAU created by the previous Socialist government, and I am convinced that the proper solution will be found through the application of the new law that the People’s Party Government of the Valencian Country intends to create. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like firstly to thank Mrs Fourtou for the work she has done in the Committee.
I would like to make it clear that, firstly, thousands of European citizens have lived in the Valencian Country for decades, millions visit us every year and that these people are happy to live in our Community and are happy with the high-quality services which they generally receive in their daily lives.
I am therefore dismayed about the fact that, over the last three years, complaints about land-planning abuses have increased very considerably.
Despite having similar laws, they have clearly never had a problem of this scale.
I would therefore like to say to you that it is right that we should deal with the citizens’ concerns, I believe that the authorities wanted the delegation that went there to make proposals, and I believe that that is what the Committee has done.
As I said, as a citizen of the Valencian Country, I want these problems to be resolved and for the incompetence of a regional government not to spoil our image, as is happening in the eyes of many European citizens, because our Community does not deserve that. &#160;&#160; Mr President, please allow me first of all to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Fourtou, on the work she has done, while regretting that that work was then altered during the final process of approving certain amendments, thus undermining what was originally a reasonable report.
I understand and agree with the criticisms of this law, unquestionably, and I naturally agree with the criticisms of its application by the Valencian Government — of the law and of its application.
I do not believe that the European Parliament is the proper place to do this and what we are doing, by approving a document like this, is distorting the institutional system itself. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am not intending with my speech to express any sort of disrespect to the autonomy of the Valencian Country.
A consensus is necessary in the EU in order to avoid policies that threaten rational European planning and the environment.
We must bear in mind the fact that current land law in Spain accords landowners 90% of the building rights and that it is a peculiar characteristic of the law under consideration – the law on the expropriation of land – that it compels owners to hand over 10% of their land, without compensation, to any local body with a plan to develop it.
We must also be aware that many owners have sustained real detriment as a result of these development processes, and that some planned developments have had devastating effects on the environment and the ecological balance of many coastal areas and especially on the future prospects for water supply, which is something else about which the European Union is concerned.
I am, then, very glad to learn that the Region of Valencia has revised this law and has already produced a new one to replace it.
This is, however, a special case, and this House must be careful not to raise the public’s hopes too high, since they may, in the event, prove impossible to fulfil. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to make two preliminary points before getting into the issue in question.
Secondly, a moratorium cannot be established either, because that falls to the regional Parliament.
The sheer number of people who have supported the petitions covered by Mrs Fourtou’s report demonstrates that the application of the LRAU law in Valencia is raising problems.
As I indicated at the beginning of this debate, most of the problems encountered fall outside the scope of Community law.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; For more than two years, the European Parliament has received tens of thousands of petitions from European citizens, including many Dutch people, about the misuse of a law on urbanisation projects (LRAU) in the Valencia region.
In so doing, it will be urging Valencia to improve the law – a process that was set in motion after a visit by a European inquiry committee – and to set up a procedure for assessing the situation of house owners on a case-by-case basis, including compensatory measures.
Property owners in Valencia have had their property and land confiscated on a massive scale and built on by often unscrupulous property developers and local authorities, acting with the connivance of the Valencian authorities under the terms of the LRAU.
There should be a moratorium on all current and planned urbanisation projects in the region until new legislation which fully respects property rights is adopted by the Valencian Parliament.
For those that have lost land and property to development by Valencian authorities a new law should establish as a matter of urgency a legal administrative structure with the power to review development plans and to assess proper compensation for victims.
While I welcome the Valencian authorities reviewing the policy of land appropriation, there is still a need for justice for citizens who have already lost land and property. &#160;&#160; The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A6-0343/2005), on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Industry, on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy end-use efficiency and energy services and repealing Council Directive 93/76/EEC (10721/3/2005 – C6-0298/2005 – 2003/0300(COD)) (Rapporteur: Mrs&#160;Rothe). &#160;&#160; .
These action plans are to lay particular stress on the public sector, to which the directive gives an exemplary role.
This directive can and must usher in a real drive for energy efficiency.
The new European legislation will also have the important effect of affording consumers greater transparency, with, for example, energy meters tailored as closely as possible to the individual’s needs, and a regular account of consumption that makes it possible to compare one’s own consumption with that of a control group.
This directive is a vitally important element in any strategy to that end.
Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the importance of this directive.
Parliament made significant progress on this directive at first reading.
For the public sector, there is no separate target in the compromise, but a number of binding measures.
Member States must publish mandatory public procurement guidelines for energy efficiency improvement.
Furthermore, they must select and use a number of public procurement requirements.
Although this activity will put an increased burden on the Commission, we welcome the challenge.
Within this context, I would like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Mechtild Rothe, on her magnificent work and the other shadow rapporteurs on their constructive attitude throughout the procedure.
This directive is intended to promote the development of an energy services market which, although it is already in existence, is not sufficiently well known to the final customers.
She has done much excellent work and we in our group strongly support her.
These are essential because they establish the fundamental principle that consumers have a right to information about how much energy they are using.
I am very pleased that the compromise text requires electricity and gas customers to be provided with individual meters that accurately reflect their actual energy consumption and give information on the time of use.
Alongside competition in the production and sale of electricity and gas, this directive will make for more vigorous competition in relation to investments in energy-saving technologies, in what are called ‘negawatts’.
The real reason why the big energy companies, like RWE and E.ON, fought this directive tooth and nail behind the scenes in the Commission, in this House and in the Council, right up to the very end, is that the prospect of a market in the saving of energy terrifies them.
While I do regret this, I have not yet given up hope that all of them – particularly, in future, the members of the national parliaments – are capable of learning and will imitate the Danish model: a binding 1.7% is what we need in the other countries too. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the energy issue is a global issue.
Nevertheless, the decision to endorse the compromise reflects more general thinking.
The directive can create incentives aimed at immediately reducing energy demand.
The information contained in the energy efficiency action plan can act as an incentive to make the Member States behave properly, particularly if the review system can guarantee that the results will be evaluated on the basis of bottom-up calculation models.
The hope is that the directive might contribute to creating a real energy services market, guaranteeing equal opportunities and quality in terms of services through the use of targeted incentives.
A decisive political decision in favour of technologies that increase energy efficiency is crucial to give fresh impetus to innovation and European competitiveness, that is to say, to make this directive an effective instrument for fulfilling the Lisbon Strategy.
I take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Rothe, and all of the shadow rapporteurs for this successful outcome. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is terrific that we have achieved a compromise that has improved the situation as it was.
It is very important that we should take seriously the differences in the Member States, the options and differences in the various areas, fields and markets, and so I am very glad that the benchmark approach has been adopted and that the Commission has been mandated to further develop it in order to take the various motivations into account.
The energy efficiency sector affords us a massive opportunity to work towards what is, in principle, a shared goal.
We can now try to move this process forward in another way, and perhaps even faster, in that we rely on the self-interest of the parties involved, treating each as individuals rather than adopting a ‘one size fits all’ approach.
It is for that reason that I hope we can end up achieving better results than we might have done with requirements imposed by a central authority. &#160;&#160; Firstly I would like to congratulate our rapporteur for the excellent work.
The individual modernisation of these flats is an absolute necessity if we want to improve energy efficiency.
For this reason the European Union is wrestling with two major challenges in the area of energy: how to reduce its dependence on imports, and how to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in line with the commitments of the Kyoto Protocol as well as after its expiry.
I take the view, however, that the current proposal contains a combination of the two approaches – indicative as well as very realistic targets.
People’s confidence in the rationality contained in the substance of Europe’s legal system must be improved, while the directive must also serve to improve the reputation of the European Union.
The proposal that Member States draw up three reports on efficient energy use, and that the fulfilment of commitments be closely monitored, will require more work and impose a greater administrative burden.
Commissioner, I welcome the goal that you have chosen as the most important in this term, and I support the directive on energy end-use efficiency.
Secondly, I am encouraged by the reaction of the OPEC countries on the oil price forecast for the near future.
I am really grateful to both representatives from the new Member States, Mrs Herczog and Mr&#160;Jordan Cizelj, because the biggest difficulty we had in the Council was with the new Member States.
That was paradoxical because the issue had been seen as perhaps an obstacle to growth.
Concerning the Danish example, I believe that, in this directive, all other Member States will follow because the suspicion will not be there.
The directive also takes into account the initial situation on energy efficiency.
I am pleased to confirm that the Commission can accept the outcome of the compromise between Parliament and the Council.
The vote will take place on Tuesday. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Pier Luigi Bersani, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on taxation of undertakings in the European Union: a common consolidated corporate tax base (2005/2120(INI)) (A6-0386/2005). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, a very important and positive discussion on this report took place in committee, and for this I should like first of all to thank all my colleagues.
The first relates to the need to simplify and reduce the management and administrative costs for businesses, which are today faced with 25 different tax bases.
The second reason relates to transparency, because harmonisation of the tax bases will make any kind of opportunistic behaviour more difficult, insofar as a common tax base – while in no way interfering in the tax rates set by the various Member States – will at last make the various tax rates fully understandable and comparable.
These two reasons, which are fully acknowledged by experts and company representatives whose opinions we sought while drafting the report, have convinced a very large number of the committee’s members.
With this report, we want to show our appreciation for the work done by the Commission, by giving it encouragement, by spurring it on and by providing a number of suggestions.
Fiscal matters are very problematic.
Mr President, I am pleased to contribute to this debate on company taxation.
I read with great interest the report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and I participated in an extremely interesting hearing which the committee held recently on the subject.
The draft report includes an excellent summary of the current situation as regards the taxation of companies in the internal market.
The main objective of a common consolidated corporate tax base is to remove the remaining tax obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market.
These obstacles were catalogued by the Commission in its company tax report in 2001, and the Commission’s response was to promote the introduction in the longer term of a comprehensive solution: a common consolidated corporate tax base.
This project has recently been given additional support during the review of the Lisbon Strategy.
One such measure is to present a Community legislative measure for the common consolidated corporate tax base by 2008.
I am pleased that Mr Bersani’s report is so supportive of some of the more radical elements of the common consolidated corporate tax base, such as consolidation and the sharing of the consolidated tax base between individual Member States.
As you know, not all Member States are currently enthusiastic supporters of the common consolidated corporate tax base.
I believe that if you start by talking about the tax base, it is virtually inevitable that you will end up next discussing the Member States’ tax rates, and that is something we will have nothing to do with.
Finally, the fact that the European Court of Justice is due, tomorrow, to hand down a judgment in the case of Marks [amp] Spencer, cannot do other than emphasise the obvious truth that the case law of the Court of Justice in Luxembourg is now extending ever wider the influence of Brussels.
The application of twenty-five different taxes on companies creates obstacles to cross-border activities, reduces the efficiency of companies, over-burdening them with greater costs, and causes many fiscal problems for the Member States, as well as greater complexity in the fight against fraud and tax evasion, dealing with double taxation and relations between groups with a presence in different Member States.
The report is ambitious.
Its aim is the first fiscal harmonisation in the field of direct taxation, calls upon the Commission to present a legislative proposal between now and 2007 and tries to put an end to the damaging lack of legislative progress in this field.
We believe that the introduction of the common tax base will, first of all, allow greater exploitation of the single market advantages, and, secondly, will enable the talents of businessmen to be manifested not only in their countries, but also in the entire European Union.
First, ways to prevent unfair competition, where small enterprises use the wider tax base of their home countries, while larger enterprises operating in several countries will be able to opt for the most favourable tax base among those countries.
The co-existence side by side within the EU, of 25 different tax systems, with marked differences not only in terms of the tax rates levied, but also of the manner in which profit is calculated, has, over the past ten years, led to one result above all others, in that the share of business tax in the funding of public budgets is on the way down, and a growing proportion of the tax burden is placed on the person who earns ordinary wages for working for someone else, or on the consumer, the latter of which is the worst possible solution in terms of its impact on society and on economic growth.
The average corporation tax rate, for example, fell by a total of 15 percentage points across the old EU from the end of the 1980s onwards.
I fear that coercion by the European Union is the wrong way to achieve tax reform. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is quite clear to me that the Commission’s proposal is indisputably an assault upon taxation as an exclusive competence of Member States.
For economic growth, independence and freedom of action are essential with more, not less, national flexibility.
You need only imagine what would happen if we were to lock the 25 European finance ministers in a room and let them out only when the white smoke had appeared and they had agreed on tax harmonisation; if we were to do that, we would be turning Europe into a high-tax region, and that is not what we want.
It has to be said, though, the Marks [amp] Spencer dossier, to which reference has already been made, will, whether we like it or not, very quickly lead to the debate turning to tax harmonisation.
I would therefore like to draw Members’ attention to the amendments that I, together with some forty fellow Members, have tabled, not with a view to harmonising taxes, but in order to introduce a minimum company tax rate.
This amendment allows for fiscal competition between the Member States, but one that is fair, not least to enterprises.
I would, in this connection, like to quote the Hungarian Social Affairs Minister, Kinga Göncz, who takes the view that ever-lower taxes do not fit in the European social model and imperil the social protection funds.
Finally, because if we say here that we advocate fiscal competition amongst the Member States, competition will be cleaner, more transparent and, if I may say so, more brutal, if the different States apply different rates — the rates they want to apply — to homogenous realities.
My second comment would be that taxation can influence the internal market, and all those here who spend their whole time telling us to make the internal market work better should concern themselves with the fact that excessive tax competition can have a fundamental impact, particularly in terms of cross-border effects, on the operation of the internal market.
Whether you support tax competition or harmonisation of tax rates, we all need this harmonisation of the tax bases.
It simply enables us to create healthy, viable conditions for the internal market, in line with the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in large measure I am pleased to support Mr Bersani’s report.
This proposal has nothing to do with harmonising tax rates.
The tax bases must be harmonised; the business tax systems must not only be harmonised but must also become transparent and comparable, and fiscal giveaways and special enterprise zones, which have lost any connection with fiscal competition, must become things of the past.
The Council can no longer look on from the political grandstand while we cope with the unhealthy distortions of competition that result, to an ever-increasing extent, from its fiscal policies.
One could just about cope with what Ireland is doing, but Ireland multiplied ten- or twelve-fold would be too much; who, Commissioner, is to foot the bill for this – the workers? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there is a misunderstanding in this Chamber if it is believed that it is high tax rates that provide social protection.
I therefore support this report and congratulate Mr&#160;Bersani on a good piece of work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the last of the speakers of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I should obviously like to join in congratulating Mr Bersani on his report, but I should also like to thank a number of shadow rapporteurs and members of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the way in which they have handled this issue.
I should also like to join Mr García-Margallo y Marfil in saying that I am pleased that it is Commissioner Kovács who will be handling this dossier, rather than his fellow-Commissioner Mr McCreevy, who paid us a recent visit.
Direct taxes, as we have noticed in this debate, are a subject that stirs up huge emotions and controversy, and it has always been very difficult for this House to reach common positions in that area, not least in the previous part-session.
Common sense also obliges me to consider the modest role that the European Union plays in this.
I think it is important to consider what the win-win situation can be.
Whilst there has been a downward trend in corporate tax rates in some Member States, this has been accompanied by both a widening of corporate tax bases and an improvement in the underlying company profitability.
In my own country, for example, the lower tax rate has meant a multiplication of the tax take.
Paving the way for minimum tax rates or corporate tax plans will not prevent companies from looking outside the EU for more competitive rates. &#160;&#160; –It is widely accepted that the current state of the EU economy is in part due to the fundamental problem of a lack of competitiveness in comparison with advanced countries such as the United States.
Tax competition has a considerable effect on the state of the European economy, and this is currently reflected most noticeably in the low economic growth recorded by some of the older and larger Member States, as against the more rapid growth of the majority of new Member States that are implementing vigorous structural reforms, including tax reforms.
The argument that tax base harmonisation will have no impact on tax rates and therefore no direct impact on tax competition is not entirely correct.
On the other hand, I understand the argument that tax base harmonisation should lead to greater transparency among the individual systems in the European Union, providing for simpler comparison between individual countries.
Commissioner, I believe that the European Commission should consider carefully all of these arguments in respect of the tax base harmonisation proposal in order to maintain an appropriate degree of tax competition between Member States as a necessary prerequisite for increasing the overall competitiveness of the European Union. &#160;&#160; .
As I said earlier, I am pleased that the draft report is so supportive of Commission policy on the common consolidated corporate tax base.
However, the Commission does not support the amendments that deal with a possible minimum tax rate and the common consolidated corporate tax base as an instrument for bringing tax rates more closely together.
I welcome the European Parliament’s interest in the subject and I look forward to learning the outcome of the vote on the report. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; &#160;The next item is the report (A6-0366/2005) by Mrs&#160;Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and the Council on the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All (2007) – Towards a Just Society [COM(2005)0225 – C6-0178/2005 – 2005/0107(COD)]. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, the European Union can be proud of its achievements in the field of non-discrimination, which place it amongst the most advanced regions in the world in this respect.
Many Member States are falling behind with their transposition schedules, and where national legislation complies with the European directives, it is unfamiliar to the general public and not properly implemented.
The Commission has therefore proposed, inter alia, to declare 2007 the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All.
It will highlight the benefits of diversity as a source of social and economic vitality, which Europe must acknowledge and make use of.
Firstly, the right to equality and protection against discrimination.
Thirdly, better representation in society of disadvantaged groups: a debate will be initiated on ways to rectify the under-representation and under-participation of certain groups in society.
Neither effectiveness nor justice benefit from this state of affairs.
The number of women in high-level positions, of whatever kind, is still very limited, if not infinitesimal.
Disabled people still do not have the right to a proper place in our societies.
I would therefore like to call on the Council and the Commission to make a firm commitment to combat all forms of discrimination in all countries of the Union, particularly as part of the Year of Equal Opportunities for All.
Let us have a common dream, Commissioner. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking Mrs&#160;Roure for her work on this report.
The European Union has made a commitment to promoting basic rights and equal opportunities for all.
Full implementation of our anti-discrimination legislation therefore remains a top priority.
It is distressing to see that certain Member States have been condemned for not having correctly transposed the European directives in this field.
I have organised the first public Parliamentary hearing in Hungary, which will take place next week, when participating citizens will talk about their personal experiences to illustrate the discrimination they have suffered.
The Year of Equal Opportunities for All is very welcome because fundamental rights are the close to the hearts of the European citizens and they must be made a reality for all citizens.
The second issue is decentralised implementation.
That is very good, but I am rather worried about the possibility of cherry-picking by the Member States.
I am not entirely reassured by all the warm words we have heard in recent years about fundamental rights, because the reality is different and the Commissioner himself mentioned that some Member States are still lagging behind in the implementation of anti-discrimination legislation.
This is not to say anything about the way the money is distributed, but we want certain – let us say – more ‘awkward’ groups that are currently suffering discrimination – homosexuals, certain reglious groups or the Roma, for example – to have equal access to this programme with all the other groups that are suffering discrimination.
That constricted timing has meant that there are one or two areas, as my colleague has just indicated, where we might have liked to tighten things up a little more but have not been able to.
Those directives reflect the more positive dimension of the European Union and people need to be aware of their rights.
As we have seen on issues such as the Working Time Directive, people all too often do not realise that they have rights, let alone that they can enforce them.
Mr President, I too would like to commend the rapporteur for her work in this very important area and to lend my voice to support the call for designation of 2007 as the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All.
All people should be entitled to their full social, economic and cultural equality.
I think 2007 as the Year of Equal Opportunities for All can become a platform for just that.
The Roure report’s focus on both migrants and women is commendable and particularly relevant again to my home country.
The European Year must be about much more than raising awareness simply about discrimination.
To that end, may I finish by echoing Mrs Roure’s call for both the Commission and the Council to put their money where their mouth is as regards tackling inequality across the Union. &#160;&#160; 2007 is a very important year for the issues to be resolved in the area of equal opportunities and the implementation of equal opportunities throughout the European Union.
Everybody plays a role in the implementation of equal opportunities, from government bodies to national authorities, from the civil society to individual European citizens.
I propose that the report be accepted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, like other speakers, I agree with the Commissioner that the EU must have one of the most advanced legislative frameworks to combat discrimination.
Therefore, I appreciate that Parliament’s amendments to the Commission proposal enforce the demand that the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All should speed up the transposition process of the two anti-discrimination directives, for which I thank the rapporteur, Mrs Roure.
I hope that the Commissioner will also agree with this. &#160;&#160; .
I would like to underline that the Commission shares your commitment to fighting forms of discrimination in Member States.
The Commission is prepared to urge all Member States to allocate the financial resources accordingly.
Generally speaking, the Commission accepts all the amendments proposed by Parliament.
We support the amendments aimed at reinforcing the involvement of civil society and the implementation of the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All.
To sum up, the Commission can accept all the amendments proposed.
I conclude by warmly thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Roure, whose commitment to non-discrimination issues was instrumental in bringing the negotiations with the Member States to a successful conclusion.
The text, which is submitted for your final approval, reinforces the Commission’s initial position and gives us the means to take action in favour of diversity throughout the European Union. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 12&#160;noon.
