Very briefly, here are a few shocking statistics: annual carbon dioxide emissions from road traffic total 835 million tonnes; 40 000 people die on the roads every year; the costs associated with traffic congestion in the European Union amount to EUR 50 billion annually, equivalent to 0.5% of the Community's GDP, and this figure could rise to as much as 1% of EU GDP by 2010.
Electronic stability control could save the lives of around 4 000 people every year, and if the in-vehicle emergency call system e-Call were fully deployed throughout Europe, the number of road injuries and fatalities could be reduced by as much as 5-15%.
This would save more than 2 500 lives every year and represent financial savings of EUR 22 billion.
The primary reason why they are not more widespread is that these systems are expensive, and the appropriate information and intelligent infrastructure are lacking.
The work we have already done is not inconsiderable, and we are making reasonable progress.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of today's debate I should like to thank Parliament as a whole and congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent and comprehensive report.
It is very encouraging, especially for me, as a Member of this Parliament for many years, to see this House recognising eCall as one of the key priorities of the 'intelligent car' initiative.
We have made a great deal of progress as a result of eCall and at the end of this year the Commission will present a new communication to Parliament and the Council setting out the final stages for the achievement of eCall.
Parliament's support in this respect will be crucial.
Systems such as adaptive cruise control (ACC), lane-change assistance, and electronic stability control (ESC) are technically well developed and highly reliable.
Unfortunately, these systems are not yet standard vehicle components.
Until the emergency services arrive, however, each of us should be able to administer first aid.
For all this potential, there remains the problem of replacing the vehicle fleet.
Launched in 2006, the "Intelligent Car” initiative is a main project in the e2010, which represents the strategic framework of the Commission for the Information Society until 2010.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, as we were saying here yesterday, you have come here in your new role at a particularly good time during our debate on transport.
Today we are considering vehicles themselves, that is, how to make the vehicles used by people on roads within the European Union as safe as possible.
For us the goal is clear, which is to enable EU citizens to move about more effectively and make their lives more comfortable but, at the same time, they should feel safer, so that, thanks to our regulations, we can tell our electors, tell the people, that we have made a positive contribution.
Specific measures taken by the European Parliament show the importance not just of this House, they also show that European legislation and European institutions bring something positive and tangible into the lives of everyone.
First of all, when we speak of an intelligent car, we must not forget that a very important part of an intelligent car is an intelligent driver.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, whom I greet as a newcomer to our Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, we have here a report with an abundance of suggestions.
Intellegentia, intellegere, intellegens - these Latin terms have to do with discernment, perception and understanding.
The Heidelberg-based Environmental and Forecasting Institute (UPI) calculated a few years ago that, once all direct and indirect transport costs have been taken into account, the average car in Germany is subsidised by the government, in other words by the taxpayer, to the tune of some EUR 3 000 a year.
Cars costing between EUR 2 000 and EUR 5 000 have little other than an engine, steering wheel, wheels, seats and, possibly in some countries, a single seat belt.
It is very encouraging that, in such a situation, there are people who are trying to make us safer.
I would like to congratulate Zita Gurmai on her innovative report.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, I am very grateful to the rapporteur, Mrs Gurmai, for her report.
The report mentions that the European Commission objective is for new passenger cars and light-duty vehicles vans not to emit more than an average of 120 grams per kilometre of CO2.
I would add that the objective for 2020 is 80 grams per kilometre.
Secondly, I would say that the development of intelligent cars is also in the interests of road safety.
It is very important that the development of intelligent cars should not be looked at separately from the development of an intelligent car environment.
However, the development of intelligent transport systems can certainly help to minimise these negative effects of transport.
I should therefore like to draw attention again to recital 13.
The development of new information and communication technologies has made it possible to achieve the political and social objective of reducing the number of victims of road accidents, that avoidable scourge of European roads.
An integrated approach to these problems will also allow a variety of common safety and environmental objectives to be taken into account, particularly in connection with infrastructure and driver behaviour, as many of our fellow Members have already stressed.
The marketing of these systems is still weak.
It is therefore very important to ensure that the negotiations to make the eCall system standard on all new vehicles from 2010 are successful, as the Commissioner has already said.
It is estimated that this initiative alone could save up to 2 500 lives every year after it is fully rolled out in Europe.
If this means, through this initiative, that we can save lives through getting medical aid around and we can help people who might not otherwise have done to survive when they have an accident, then this is something that the British citizen and the citizens of the other European countries and Ireland should be able to gauge into.
Now cars, as the previous speaker said, are made to go faster and faster and are more sophisticated than ever: satellite navigation systems, e-systems, as we are talking about here, will be in cars very shortly and they will probably be standard in 20 years' time.
Therefore, I congratulate all involved. (PL) Madam President, fitting cars with automatic stability control systems and automatic accident notification has become today's challenge.
There are 41 600 fatal accidents on European roads each year.
In general, but especially in our towns and cities, we are finding it increasingly difficult to raise enough money for major developments to our hardware, by which I mean our roads.
In this context we organised a hearing as part of our deliberations in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, where we were told by the industry representatives - not entirely surprisingly - that anything was possible.
New, good, improved technology can make cars safer and road traffic less dangerous, but it can also be misused and foster a misconception among drivers that, since their car can do everything, they no longer really need to devote much attention to safe driving.
How much pain are we ready to suffer, how many days in hospital, to save EUR 1 000 by buying a less technologically advanced vehicle?
I want to pay tribute first of all to Zita Gurmai, who has done an excellent piece of work, not just in putting this report together but also in promoting the whole of the Intelligent Car eSafety programme.
Once you have that information collection system on, you can then use it for anti-skid systems.
For me, this name is a symbol of modern European transport which, thanks to new information and communications technology, will become even safer, more ecological and more efficient.
People are naturally curious and like to buy novelties, especially when they are financially accessible.
The large-scale use of intelligent transportation systems and, first of all, of the electronic stability control is necessary.
This way, thousands of human lives can be saved, pollution can be reduced, traffic can be decongested and both the car drivers' comfort and safety and the relations between road traffic partners can be improved.
I support without any reserve the Commission's proposal to launch a programme for implementing cooperative driving systems, as well as ensuring the availability of the related radio frequencies, whose benefits are visible in experimental phases in various countries and, with all costs involved, will produce long-term results.
Echoing the report by our colleague Zita Gurmai, the European Parliament is convinced that the Commission will respond to that expectation and to these needs by setting a new frontier for the European intelligent car and finally allocating the necessary funding to achieve that ambition. (HU) Mr President, I support the report by the rapporteur Mrs Gurmai.
One of European industry's great strengths is its automotive sector, where we are highly successful in global competition, not least thanks to highly innovative small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the sector.
Nowadays, moreover, developments in this sector span western and eastern Europe.
It is therefore important that the European legislature should try to reduce these figures.
I believe this report points in the right direction.
I believe the report expresses that view quite clearly too.
Such cooperation must be ensured by the European Union, because on our own we cannot achieve the final objective, which is without doubt the objective of the Commission and of our rapporteur. (ES) Mr President, I would like to offer my warm congratulations to my colleague, Mrs Gurmai, for her enthusiasm in converting the 'fantasy car' of our youth into a real car for the future of Europe.
Yesterday, without going further, we approved the Directive on road safety infrastructure, which already highlighted the need to develop intelligent and interactive systems and vehicles.
With regard to the eSafety system, which is too far behind schedule, Commissioner, we have already called for it to be included in all vehicles and not only in premium vehicles and Mrs Gurmai wants to see this implemented as soon as possible.
The eCall system is an effective additional feature of the overall system for protecting road users.
It is for that reason, I repeat, that the road safety sector will be a priority - and that is a commitment which I formally make to the European Parliament - and one of the main undertakings that the Commission and the transport sector will pursue in forthcoming months.
On the basis of the results of a consultation launched on 23 May 2008, the European Commission has proposed a regulation on type-approval requirements for the general safety of vehicles which states that, from 2012, electronic stability control systems are to be installed in new vehicles in order significantly to improve the safety of those vehicles.
In reply to Mrs Ayala Sender, as regards heavy vehicles, in November 2007 the UNECE World Forum for harmonisation of vehicle regulations approved a text relating to the compulsory installation of ESC and related technical standards.
Several of you have cited the shocking statistic: 41 600 people die on the roads.
I am very proud of Viviane Reding and her team, André and Juhani, who are sitting here.
It is important also to have the vehicle manufacturers on our side, because 17 million cars are produced annually in Europe and 2 million people are employed in this sector.
I warmly welcome them and I think it is very good and important that people are coming into the visitors' gallery, but I am also conscious that as soon as I sit down from this momentous speech that I am making, what will happen is that you will suspend the sitting until 12.00 for the voting period.
I am speaking on behalf of these perhaps 100 or so people in the gallery who have come to hear people speaking and all they are going to hear at the moment is me rabbiting on for two minutes about nothing - but making a very serious point. (Applause) Mr Evans, you had one minute to speak, not two.
