The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the preparation of the European Council in Thessaloniki on 20 and 21 June 2003 and the meeting between the troika and the countries participating in the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Thessaloniki Council will bring a particularly difficult six months to a close and pave the way for the procedure of European integration to continue.
First, how to advance the matter of the institutional changes which the European Union needs and which the Convention on the Future of Europe has been processing since March 2002.
Of course, over and above these five entities, the Council will not omit to discuss and take appropriate decisions on a series of other issues.
Ladies and gentlemen, the first thematic entity concerns the institutional changes which are being processed by the Convention and the steps which need to follow.
As a result of enlargement, the Treaty for which was signed in Athens on 16 April, there is the urgent problem of the changes which have to move forward so that the European Union does not fall into the ugly trap of having inflexible institutions which are unable to operate efficiently and creatively.
That is why the issues of the Convention on the Future of Europe are major issues for the Council and the Union in general.
The final product of the Convention will therefore be submitted to the Thessaloniki Council.
The Greek Presidency plans to hold a discussion on the material aspects of this item so that there is an exchange of views, so that a picture of national positions is formed before the Intergovernmental Conference and, of course, so that decisions are taken on procedural issues relating to the subsequent stages of the procedure.
The timetable of work for the Intergovernmental Conference is an important issue.
In order to determine the timetable, account must also be taken of the obligation of certain Member States to hold an internal dialogue on the outcome of the Convention.
We estimate that, around autumn, this procedure should have been completed, the Intergovernmental Conference should proceed and its work should be completed on time so that the period between the date of enlargement, in May 2004, and the entry into force of the new institutional framework is as short as possible.
The debate on the institutional architecture of enlarged Europe started by identifying the need for greater efficiency.
Its strength depends on two basic elements: on its more democratic functioning and on more efficient decision-making.
I should particularly like to welcome the fact that, during the work of the Convention, a significant degree of agreement has been noted on a series of basic issues, such as, for example, the strengthening of the role of the European Parliament, the introduction of a single international legal personality for the Union, the incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Constitutional Treaty and the further communitisation of the area of freedom, security and justice.
An enlarged Europe should result in a stronger international presence.
This means finding solutions, such as a more coordinated way of using foreign policy resources and the creation of a person who will unite the responsibilities of the High Representative with those of the Commissioner responsible for foreign policy.
As you know, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is under way.
Over and above the various approaches expressed in plenary at the Convention, it is, I think, important for us to maintain a balance between the Union's institutions, to safeguard the equality of the Member States, to make further use of the advantages of the Community method and to strengthen the democratic character of a Union of states and peoples.
It will be an opportunity to discuss issues which are important to both sides, to cooperate and address serious issues concerning international and/or bilateral developments and to overturn the climate which has often prevailed over all these recent months.
Relations between the European Union and the United States depend on traditional ties, the weighty role of the two sides on the international stage and their dynamism, despite the fact that over recent months they have been put to the test by a divergence of opinion on a series of issues.
We believe that the image of our relations with the United States should improve and should better reflect the real state of our relations.
That is why we are working hard to ensure that the next summit, the agenda for which will be discussed at the Thessaloniki Summit, will be an important step in the further development of our strategic relations, so that we can meet the challenges of our times together.
The issues of Iraq, transatlantic relations and international developments in general recently created new challenges in the field of the European security and defence policy.
The Ministers for Foreign Affairs, at their informal meeting at the beginning of May, instructed the Union's High Representative to prepare a general report on the new security environment, the challenges and threats arising from it and the ways in which the Union can deal with them, to be submitted for initial discussion at the European Council in Thessaloniki.
Similarly, the European Council expects to adopt the Presidency's progress report on the European security and defence policy, together with the annual report concerning the implementation of the Union's programme on the prevention of violent conflicts, which forms the cornerstone of the Union's security mechanism.
Following on from the conclusions of the European Council in Seville, the Presidency also intends to bring a series of issues concerning immigration, asylum and external borders which, as you know, were basic priorities of our Presidency, to the attention of the heads of state during the June Council.
As you know, we sought a global review of the question of immigration in the sense of both legal and illegal immigration.
In an effort to formulate a single European policy on the issues of legal immigration and asylum, the Presidency also attached particular importance to the issue of the integration of third country nationals.
We intend, together with the Commission, to formulate conclusions for Thessaloniki on the basis of the Commission communication on the development of a common policy on illegal immigration, people trafficking, the issue of external borders and the return of illegal immigrants, again in conjunction with the question of dividing the burden.
The Presidency also intends to seek political agreement on including immigration as a necessary parameter in the evaluation of third country cooperation with the Union.
Following the spring European Council, which was held under difficult economic and political developments, measures also need to be taken to implement decisions reached within the framework of the Lisbon strategy in March 2000, especially now that we are one third of the way through the process and a great deal still remains to be done.
As far as the western Balkans and their relations with the Union are concerned, our programme targets a set of priorities, especially the strengthening of their progress towards European structures and European conditions.
The fact that the western Balkans have remained high on the Union's list of priorities despite the adverse climate over recent months is an achievement on the part of the Union and also illustrates the major political importance we attach to the region.
Reconstruction of the western Balkans has been based on regional cooperation and the role of the stability pact is important in this direction.
I shall refer in particular to the Presidency's initiative, within the framework of the south-eastern Europe cooperation process and the stability pact, to create a crisis and conflict prevention and early warning mechanism which will mainly emphasise the importance of economic and social development as a deterrent.
Democratisation, reconciliation and regional cooperation, on the one hand, and the rapprochement of each of these countries with the Union, on the other hand, constitute a single entity.
Our objectives for the western Balkans have been agreed by the Commission and the Member States and the five countries in the region.
The Council and the Commission are working to implement these objectives with specific operational conclusions.
The relevant decisions are due to be adopted at the General Affairs Council on 16 June.
At the same time, the European Council will confirm that the European future of these countries lies mainly in their own hands and in their commitment to implementing the necessary reforms.
The stability and association process, an integral part of which is the principle of conditionality, continues to give us the necessary institutional framework.
Enriching this process with elements of the recent enlargement experience will reinforce the evaluation, reform and control mechanisms on the basis of the 1997 conditionality and the Copenhagen criteria.
Inspired by the pre-accession procedure and adapted to the requirements of each country, they will indicate priorities and obligations which need to be honoured on a regular basis and will act as a guide for financial support via CARDS.
The decision to adopt this mechanism is again expected to be taken at the General Affairs Council and the European Council.
Specific actions will also be proposed on other horizontal issues, such as the return of refugees, the fight against unemployment, the liberalisation of trade and the protection of religious and cultural monuments.
An important precondition if we are to achieve efficient stabilisation in the region consists of strengthening European funding and placing greater emphasis on development measures.
The decisions taken by the Thessaloniki Council will also be reflected in the Thessaloniki declaration which is expected to be signed by the interested parties on 21 June.
Within this political forum, which follows on from the Zagreb summit in 2000, we intend to renew a political dialogue which will complete the existing framework and will also emphasise the responsibility of the countries of the western Balkans in the overall process.
Over and above these basic parameters which the European Council will address, I might refer very briefly to certain other issues which are of particular importance.
Following the historic ceremony of the signing of the enlargement treaty on 16 April, new impetus was given to this process and a basic stage in its overall course was completed.
The ratification procedure for the 10 countries is proceeding smoothly, as is reinforced monitoring of the application of the acquis.
At the same time, accession negotiations with Bulgaria and Romania are making satisfactory progress.
I should just like to point out that, in an effort to bring European citizens closer to European developments, the Greek Presidency is dealing with the proposal for European political parties as a matter of high priority and is making every effort so that negotiations in the Council will be completed before the Thessaloniki European Council.
I should like to close by noting that the Presidency has tried and will make a final effort to see if perhaps a solution can also be found to the question of the MEP statute.
Firstly, with just a few days to go before the Convention closes, I would like to thank all those who have represented this assembly at the Convention.
Today we have the opportunity to establish our first true Constitution from a democratic debate taking place in the full light of day.
The Convention must put forward a balanced text with no alternatives, a text that lays the foundations for Europe for many years to come, guaranteeing our presence and independence on the international stage.
If we leave the decisions on a number of crucial issues to the intergovernmental conference, we risk a rerun of the sorry experience of Nice.
Let me remind you of the original ideas behind this great reform of our policies and our Institutions.
The Laeken Declaration sets three main objectives: firstly, a better division and definition of European Union competences; secondly, simplification of our legal instruments and action; thirdly, making the Union more democratic, transparent and efficient.
The basic aim is to assert the values pursued by the Union, define citizens' fundamental rights and duties and clarify the relationship between Member States within the Union.
This means striking a new balance between the Institutions so that Europe can play its part in a globalised world, but a balance that is easy to grasp for our citizens.
The best solution - there may also be second best solutions - is double simple-majority voting - that is, half the Member States and half of the population: easily comprehensible, straightforward and clear.
The solution put forward in the latest draft of the Constitution has three drawbacks: first of all, there is the fundamental problem of legitimacy, of accountability, as it is unclear to whom such a President would report, which is fundamental for democracy; in addition, it weakens your role, the European Parliament's role, because this assembly rightly has power of control over the Commission, but not over the Council or its President.
So this philosophy is asymmetrical; it is a weak kind of democracy that we are considering, that this draft is considering.
The Foreign Minister will therefore need to work closely with the College and, in particular, with the President of the Commission and must have the backing of a genuine European service.
This, ladies and gentlemen, is a practical example of how the intergovernmental and Community dimensions should be combined.
Before closing, I want to raise one last point: we need the right institutional instruments to strengthen our economic policies, precisely to prevent us being sidelined on the economy too.
There are many things I could add, but I have sought to confine myself to the essential points so that there is more time for debate.
I would first like to thank all our representatives to the Convention and its Chairman, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, very sincerely for all the work they have done up to now, although we have not reached our goal yet.
As regards the Commission, we want a strong Commission, and we welcome the suggestion that the President should be proposed by the Heads of State and Government on the basis of the election results, and that Parliament should then choose the President of the Commission.
I would like to thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for saying that the Greek Presidency will endeavour to achieve a result as regards the Statute for Members of the European Parliament.
Mr President-in-Office, if we cannot achieve a result in the Council, then I fear that there will never be a Statute for Members.
I hope that you will also manage to adopt the European party statute, because it is very important indeed for all Europe's party political families, large and small, that we should have a party statute that ensures transparency and an ability to act, and I would very much encourage you to take this to heart.
This weekend, this Saturday and Sunday, we are encouraging our Polish partners to vote 'Yes' to Europe in their referendum, to say 'Yes' to membership of the European Union.
I had a wonderful experience last Sunday in Warsaw during a pro-accession demonstration, when we were shouting out: Tak dla Polski! 'Yes' for Polish membership of the European Union!
With regard to external personality, it is also important, as the President of the Commission has said, that we genuinely affirm the fundamental principles and the criterion of majority as a working system.
The Greek Presidency has indicated that the stabilisation and integration of the Balkans is an absolutely essential issue.
With regard to the final work of the Convention, I would like to point out firstly that the important thing is that no possibilities are ruled out, in other words, that the constitutional text allows us to evolve, because the text itself will not be able to change reality, but rather we must be able to continue with the Community method.
Secondly, with regard to the composition of the Commission, I would say that this is an open debate within all political families but, in any event, what we must do is strengthen the Commission's capacity as a college and the authority of its President.
The very important issue for Parliament is the need to enshrine the power of the law, of shared legislative power, which means that the Council must also act in a democratic and open way and, at the same time, we must maintain the institutional balance.
With regard to the Statute for Members of the European Parliament, I would like to insist on one point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I would also like the President of the Commission to give his view on it during this debate.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this issue does not relate to Parliament's internal system.
Mr President, please allow me to refer very briefly to two important issues.
I would like you to be a little more explicit with regard to the development of the Lisbon strategy and also the euro, which is an issue of concern us, above all because the European economy is not working as a motor.
Finally, with regard to the transatlantic Summit at the end of this month, it is very important to demonstrate the will of both sides to once again take up our responsibilities within a multilateral context, particularly at a time when there are signs of hope in the Middle East peace process and an opportunity to work for the future of the United Nations.
Mr President, we must say to our American allies - and I am thinking of the extradition treaty - that they must treat us with equality, respecting our own legislative capacity and, above all, they must give us explanations - this is an important point - with regard to the entirely unacceptable situation of certain European citizens, in that law-free zone known as the Guantánamo base.
This is also of importance in terms of our future relations.
In any event, it is very important that you take a significant step, respecting and supporting the results of a Convention which leads us to a European Constitution.
Mr President, European Liberal Democrats in this House hope that President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing will present to the Heads of State and Government a draft Constitutional Treaty which commands a broad consensus.
However, it is for the Convention, not its President, to confirm the existence or not of a consensus, and if the Convention needs a little more time to complete its work, so be it.
At the very least we must leave open the door to an integrated presidency in a few years time.
Unless we are capable of thinking in new ways about the concept of sovereignty, we will continue to fail our citizens on the major challenges we face.
While I welcome the proposed extension of Parliament's powers of democratic control over the budget and European legislation, I am concerned that an imbalance remains between the powers of Parliament and Council in other areas, such as concluding agreements with third countries on crucial security matters.
It is vital for the European Union to develop a doctrine which enshrines the central role of international law and of institutions such as the UN, the WTO and NATO.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, the Greek Presidency has been characterised by particularly seminal deadlines for the future of the Union, such as the signature of the accession treaty by ten new countries and the probable conclusion of the Convention's work.
In that case, why refuse to open the debate on a change in the priorities of the European Central Bank?
This identity crisis is equally obvious with regard to the role of the Union in the world.
This has become only too clear since the war against Iraq.
For all these reasons, Mr President, my group considers that the Greek Presidency would serve Europe well by raising this entire problem clearly at the Thessaloniki European Council: what do we want to do together and what means are we providing ourselves with in order to achieve our objectives?
In any case, in our societies, the question has now been raised and that is a very good thing.
Mr President, I too would like to acknowledge the Greek Presidency's work over the last few months and say how pleased I am with yesterday evening's work to conclude the agreement on better regulation.
In particular, I am grateful to the President of the Commission for having reminded us of the origins of the Convention and what our objectives were, given that at times we forget them, when we see that some members of the Praesidium and especially its Chairman want to pose more as members of the Intergovernmental Conference than Europe's founding fathers.
The Convention, Mr President, must retain control of the process of reforming the European Union.
If it does not manage to conclude its work by 20 June, we must allow it to continue working to reach an agreement, which is perfectly feasible provided that the Convention plays its full part as a constituent or para-constituent assembly, does not give in to blackmail by the small numbers of eurosceptics who have no interest in seeing it succeed - this needs to be said and reiterated - and asserts the value of an open, parliamentary working method which is very different from the intergovernmental method that is based exclusively on power politics.
It is true that the President and the Praesidium have clearly miscalculated, intentionally prolonging the concluding period of debates without ever setting out in black and white which points had achieved a broad consensus, thereby deluding themselves that they can control the Convention at will and giving the wrong impression that the Convention is divided on everything; but today the governments which are anxious to see this constitutional reform succeed - and they exist, I am sure, and I am also sure that your government, Mr President, is among these - cannot simply pull the plug on the Convention if it does not conclude its proceedings to the satisfaction of the majority of its members.
In my opinion, there are at least three issues where we need to send out a signal of progress, democracy and clarity, which can be seen directly by all the citizens: direct access to justice for citizens in the event of breaches of the Charter of Rights; the simultaneous extension of codecision and Council majority voting, in particular with regard to taxation and foreign affairs.
We will not be able to act as a global player, committed to the values of multilateralism and democracy, if we are blocked at every turn by vetoes and counter-vetoes and if all of this sector remains, as it is today, totally free of any form of parliamentary control.
Turning to the Seville programme which you, Mr President, referred to: we have often condemned the great imbalance in the strategy agreed in Tampere, between the repressive aspects of the fight against illegal immigration and the forced repatriation policy and the positive aspects, such as the creation of legal, controlled immigration channels, the softening of the visa policy and integration measures for third countries based on the non-discrimination principle.
We hope, Mr President, that the Council will heed the loud and clear message that Parliament sent out yesterday: no signing of the extradition treaty between the European Union and the United States without clarification of the situation of the European Union citizens in Guantanamo.
The Convention has carried out a great deal of work since it was first established 18 months ago, and we now await the results.
The Union is at an historic crossroads and from 1 May 2004 we will be a Community of 25 different Member States.
The draft Treaty will form a basis for the final EU Treaty which will be put in place at the IGC in the near future.
It is very important that EU governments and citizens are given time to reflect on the provisions of the draft Treaty.
We are all seeking to ensure that we put in place a Treaty which can govern the operation of the Union over the next 50 years.
The European Union is a union of states and peoples and the success of the Union as an economic and political entity is premised on the fact that both smaller and larger Member States are treated in many respects as equal partners within the Union.
I believe that each Member State should retain the right to nominate one member of the Commission or, at a minimum, ensure that there is an equality of representation on the Commission from both small and large states.
A French sun king is leading the Convention in contravention of all the democratic ground rules.
The EU rules on transparency do not apply to Chairman Giscard d'Estaing.
In our case, 13 prime ministers could vote down 12 in the European Council, and the prime ministers of the three largest countries could vote down the 22 others in one go on the basis of what is termed their double majority, in which countries with 40% of the inhabitants are given the right of veto.
Our democracy would be reduced to something very local.
Voters would be able to go to the polls in elections to the European Parliament, but it would not be possible in this way, either, to change the laws of the EU or replace the people running it.
That power would be taken away from voters and elected representatives in all the countries.
The power that, in all democratic countries, resides with the electorate would, in the case of the EU, be apportioned through an inscrutable power game involving prime ministers, meetings of the Council and of the Commission and a European Parliament potentially dominated by powerful supranational party bureaucrats.
As for the electorate, it has an extremely remote role to play in the draft constitution to be debated at the Thessaloniki Summit.
Mr President, I would just like to make one, very brief point: this debate is an affront to the parliament which has chosen to hold it.
We should have discussed this on 18 June during the mini part-session.
When he said that 'we are facing an identity crisis', he was right.
It is disappointing that the presidency has been unable to persuade governments to get their act together on issues which are as fundamental as this to the prosperity of people across Europe.
As a result, many EU countries will be facing a future of economic stagnation and deflation.
Secondly, the presidency wanted to see the new Europe as an international motor for peace and cooperation.
The Convention is proposing a European Union which, in my view, is more centralised, more bureaucratic, in many ways less democratic and certainly more federalist than is currently the case.
In summary: a Constitution, incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, legal status for the Union, a President, a Foreign Minister, the collapse of the second and third pillars, a common foreign security policy, the eventual framing of an EU defence policy, the requirement that both economic policies and taxation be harmonised and the establishment of a European public prosecutor.
When the Inter-Governmental Conference begins its work later this year, my party is determined to see that the accession states not only have a right to contribute to the discussion, but have a vote in the Council on the crucial decisions that it will take.
We want a Europe that is democratic and prosperous and works with the United States to defend our freedoms and confront common threats.
The Convention takes us down a different road to a Europe where the nation state is no longer the foundation upon which the Union rests.
At the moment, it is not easy to foresee at what stage the Convention will have reached on the eve of Thessaloniki, what text the Chairman, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, will submit to the Council or what level of consensus will have been reached in the Convention.
I do not think that everything will be clarified and settled before Thessaloniki and, in any case, it is down to the Council to provide further stimulus towards fully attaining the objectives set by the Laeken Declaration of December 2001, the main points of which have already been listed by President Prodi.
For my part, I would like to recall the content and tone of that declaration, especially in relation to the duties that the European Union must perform and the challenges that it must meet.
The risk exists now, and it can be inferred from the text adopted thus far by the Praesidium of the Convention, yielding to the growing pressure from certain heads of government of the larger countries, particularly with regard to the Chapter on the Institutions, the Council's decision-making procedures and also the future procedures for reviewing the Treaty.
In various regards, it would perhaps be instructive to reread the Treaty for which Altiero Spinelli was rapporteur, which was adopted by Parliament in February 1984.
President Prodi has already said a great deal in very clear terms regarding the serious contradictions and the shortcomings of the text adopted so far by the Praesidium on institutional matters.
I would just like to reassert the positions expressed by Parliament, which as an institution has not kept quiet, has not relied solely on its 16 representatives at the Convention - unfortunately only 16 out of 105 - but, through the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it has made many contributions and sparked major debates during which - I want to stress this above all - a clear position was taken against the idea of a full time President of the European Council.
Mr Poettering pointed out that we must delete the idea of incompatibility envisaged between holding the mandate of President of the European Council and holding other European mandates.
I believe that the Thessaloniki Council must issue a warning in this respect, so that we do not take a path where the personal opinions of the Chairman of the Convention or the compromise opinions of the Praesidium override majority opinions, supported by a broader consensus in the Convention plenary.
Winston Churchill said that the Balkans had a very great and very full history which hardly fitted within its territory.
I believe that the European Union must manage and improve this relationship, and promote cross-border cooperation between the Balkan countries, as a method for preparing them for their future integration into the European Union.
These countries must be integrated into the common foreign and security policy and they must be able to participate in programmes such as Socrates or Leonardo, in order to bring their integration into the European Union closer.
We must establish mechanisms to allow these nations without a state, as in the case of Catalonia or the Basque country, to be represented in the bodies of the European Union.
I believe this is necessary so that the citizens in question can feel directly represented within this European Union, which must be a Europe of the citizens, but also a Europe of the peoples it contains.
I think that this is not the time to transfer American kitsch to the European Union and for us to become even more farcical than we were on the issue of Iraq.
I want to say that the Greek Presidency, in my opinion, has been methodical and has made serious preparations.
I wish to congratulate the Greek Presidency in particular on the way it acted during the crisis triggered by the war in Iraq, launched by the United States and the United Kingdom and supported by the government of the Spanish State.
Accordingly, we hope that the Convention presents the European Council with a draft Constitution that continues constructing a Union that is respected on the world stage as a body working for peace and solidarity, unlike the militarism that currently prevails.
I hope that the Constitution will give this Parliament all the democratic powers that it needs, including codecision and a role in electing the president of the Commission.
In any event, we must be able to have confidence in the future of the Union.
Only recently, following the failure that was Nice, just one small group in this Parliament was calling for the Union to have a Constitution.
As a European and as a political representative of a nation-state such as Galicia, of course I want the Constitution to respect the national and cultural diversity that constitutes the fabric of Europe.
The forthcoming Thessaloniki Summit is of considerable importance for the future of the Union, both in the medium and the long term.
It is important to lay the foundations so that Europe, or rather the Union, soon to complete an enlargement process which is unprecedented in its history and in the history of the world, can increasingly combine economic power with political dignity.
It is to do justice to the latter that I would like to talk about the policies neglected by that same Union, something which is even more serious as it grows in importance.
With reference to Article 152 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, I acknowledge national autonomy for health issues, but a Europe which is heading for enlargement to include 25 countries cannot underestimate the impact which the social and healthcare problems of these countries will have on the political and social economy of the Europe of the future.
This is why the UEN Group recently met in Turin and discussed precisely these enlargement-related social and healthcare issues, producing a document that has already been submitted to the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi.
The globalisation process could see ill people and diseases knocking loudly on Europe's doors, finding us lacking, as has already happened with regard to SARS infection: a situation which tested our health coordination and cooperation abilities, a matter which the forthcoming Italian Presidency must address if it truly wishes to prevent emergencies and tackle the health service divide that the individual nations are experiencing and which will induce people to travel en masse to countries with health service facilities and centres of excellence, which, in turn, might be in danger of paralysis.
I hope that the Union will decide to give consideration to this and that the next Presidency of the Union will put forward proposals in this respect.
Mr President, the Chairman of the Convention is due to present his conclusions at the European Council in Thessaloniki on 20 and 21 June next, but he will undoubtedly request an extension for his work.
That amounts to saying that the Council would have no freedom of choice, that democratic power would be transferred from the governments to a Convention without democratic legitimacy.
Of course, the work of the Convention - drawing up a complete European constitution - is vast, but it was the Convention that wanted it that way.
The mandate given by the Nice Council did not involve drawing up a constitution and the Laeken Council only made this a possibility in the long term, in other words, not an immediate concern.
To do so, we might need to go back to the original Community method, which is now long forgotten, based on two pillars: fostering cooperation, in particular with the Commission, and respect for national sovereignty, in particular with the Council.
The main flaw in European integration today is the lack of emphasis on this second pillar.
In this regard, the Convention is constantly moving backwards.
The stable presidency of the Council is strongly contested by the Commission.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you touched on the subject of immigration and we would like to know what progress has been made on the subject of illegal immigration, readmission and asylum.
I would even say that guarding external borders would be an important step for the common foreign policy, the security and defence policy, because it is not possible for us to want to adopt a common foreign security and defence policy unless we have adopted common external borders; we have the opportunity to make a start on illegal immigration by guarding these borders.
There is unanimity here in Parliament that the Commission should promote the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, so that the European Union can respond in a coordinated manner to health threats and to terrorist threats.
That brings me to a perhaps more important issue which the Thessaloniki Summit will address, the text to come out of the Constitutional Convention.
I would say, as you too rightly said and others have pointed out, that this text contains very good points, excellent points, such as the incorporation of the Charter, increased powers for the European Parliament and codecision.
It also makes provision in foreign policy for a Minister for Foreign Affairs.
The second point, on which we totally disagree, is the fact that there may be a Member State which is not represented by a Commissioner.
The current system is a thousand times better.
Mr President, in a few days we shall have the summit in Thessaloniki, a city - as everyone is talking about history and civilisation - which was the second biggest city in the Roman Empire, the second biggest city in the Byzantine Empire, and which has always been the reference point of the Balkans.
The Thessaloniki Presidency has two characteristics: first, it closes the cycle of the presidencies of the 15 and opens the cycle of the presidencies of the 25.
Secondly, precisely for this reason, it is characterised by the results of the Convention on the Future of Europe which is under way.
In this sense, therefore, it has two very important elements which it must promote, in order to open prospects for the future.
The war in Iraq made us all, possibly to our slight surprise, discover a great many lacunae in connection with the development of Europe.
That brings us to the Thessaloniki Summit.
However, I should like to add two things, despite the fact that my speech appears to be going off at a tangent, to the second leg in Thessaloniki, the stability pact.
The stability pact concerns the crisis in the western Balkans, in former Yugoslavia.
In this sense, it is a telling issue and we cannot deal with it as a secondary issue, because, whether we like it or not, we consider the future of Europe and the Convention to be a primary issue.
In this sense, the Community method and its variations must be reinforced.
I warmly congratulate the Greek Presidency on its conference on managed migration in Athens last month, because the statistics are stunning: Europe is set to lose 15% of its population by 2050.
The US population is going to increase by 40%.
The problem is that our societies do not and politicians have to lead an honest and brave debate on all the ramifications of immigration.
I do not know the quid pro quo envisaged by the British Government to tempt the Balkan countries into having these refugee camps, but I would like to suggest one topic that requires active and early consideration with the Balkan countries and that is a review of visa policies.
As the presidents of the SAP countries said at their summit on Monday, the process of integration could be assisted greatly by offering a genuine hope to their citizens that soon they will be able to travel freely in the whole of Europe.
Mr President, the Greek Presidency has indeed dealt with some serious issues.
On 17 February, it was declared that the problem with Iraq was its disarmament, and this provoked Mr Bush's congratulations.
The declaration by the Presidency on 16 April legitimises the attack after the event, acknowledges the sovereignty of the attackers in Iraq and gives the UN the role of mediator in the distribution of the booty.
As for your policy in the Balkans, what do you have to say about the subsidised relocation of companies such as SISER-PALCO, which leave thousands of unemployed in Greece and elsewhere?
This is their response to the attack on all the rights the working classes have acquired over the last 100 years.
The MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece condemn, together with the thousands of protestors who will descend on Thessaloniki in two weeks' time, the policies of the European Union, which are becoming more and more dangerous for the security and standard of living of the peoples and which the Greek Presidency has served in the best possible way.
Mr Yiannitsis, you have been the recipient of many compliments this morning and I should like to agree in one specific regard: I compliment you on the way in which, in the midst of all the right and proper attention to the Convention for example and transatlantic relations, the Greek Presidency has succeeded in preventing the Western Balkans from sinking into oblivion.
The question is not if the countries of the Western Balkans will ever join the European Union, but when.
This conclusion is in itself nothing new.
In 1999, after the Kosovo war, the European Union set up the so-called stabilisation and association process, based on an analysis of the problems in the 1990s: ethnic violence, extreme nationalism and the need to develop democratic structures.
But we have reached a point where the European Union's policy cannot simply be based on an analysis of the 1990s; it must also be based on an analysis of the current and the future problems of the countries in the Western Balkans.
In my opinion this means that we must retain the good points in our current policy in respect of the Balkans.
There are in fact two neighbouring countries that have a vital interest in seeing stability in the Western Balkans, that is to say in south-eastern Europe.
The road they have to travel will be a difficult one, as the 10 accession countries have discovered.
Until just two years ago, Serbia and Montenegro still had Milosevic.
Many of these problems are, however, common to all these countries, such as the fight against corruption and organised crime, and above all the fight against traffic in human beings.
In many of these countries the judicial system is still very poor and deficient.
If an appeal is being made to us to grant these countries visa freedom, then, in my opinion, they should first come to an agreement between themselves to allow their own citizens to travel freely.
I would like to mention three points contained in our motion for a resolution.
It is reasonable for the Stability Pact to be closely linked with the stabilisation and association process.
You probably do not want to exceed that figure, but I believe that we need more, because economic development is a prerequisite for our co-existence, for the development of this Community and for the ultimate solution of the problems of refugees.
They are all trying to leave these countries and to emigrate to other countries, such as New Zealand, the United States and Canada.
I appeal to the Greek Presidency to play an active role here in ensuring that we really give the young people of these countries a signal that they can take part in our educational programmes.
If I rightly understood the communiqué issued by the presidents of these countries on Monday, it contains many good things - many promises and many valuable insights.
I only hope that something will be done in Thessaloniki to give these countries a real incentive to translate those promises into action. (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am the third or fourth Member queuing up to speak about the Balkans.
And there must be cooperation with The Hague.
That is untenable for us, and I believe and hope that the European Union - both the Council and the Commission - will make it clear to these countries that such agreements run counter not only to the spirit of the Common Foreign and Security Policy but also to the acquis communautaire that we have created in that area.
We need to be able to tell those countries exactly where there are still problems, but we also need to be able to tell them where progress has been made.
I hope - and this, Mr Prodi, is a job for the Commission - that Europe will react swiftly to the application by Croatia, the first of these countries to apply for membership.
In principle, we should be giving a positive reply, at least I hope that things are moving in that direction.
I therefore believe not only that the Thessaloniki Summit should be described as 'Zagreb II', it should also be a kind of pre-Copenhagen, that is to say a Copenhagen I, in that it gives clear signals.
First of all, to congratulate the Greek Presidency, which, in a troubled and difficult period for Europe, has achieved a great deal, showing once again that there is no correlation between the size of a country and the quality of its European presidency.
Secondly, to note that the management of the serious European and world events in the past six months has shown the limits of an economic Europe that is too liberal in its foundations and not sufficiently democratic in its functioning.
Lastly, in particular, to call once again for political debate towards another Europe, a social, people's Europe, nourished by its diversity, rather than a Europe that seeks to banish this diversity.
Mr President, I wish to begin by saying to the Greek Presidency 'Efcharisto poli'.
The President-in-Office and President Prodi have described the workings of the Convention - this is not the Convention I have been attending.
President Prodi said that the deliberations were taken in the full light of day - but not the meetings of the Praesidium, nor the private meetings between Giscard d'Estaing and some Heads of Government, nor the leaks to Le Monde, putting very extreme positions from which Giscard d'Estaing could then be seen to negotiate to merely difficult or mildly impossible positions.
These institutional questions are all very important, but in my view must really only come into play when we have reached agreement on the content of European policy areas.
It must also ask these citizens for an effective policy in the area of foreign affairs, a policy in respect of social issues such as pensions, employment an economic policy, a security policy, a policy in the important area of asylum and migration and, let us not forget, an environmentally friendly and fair agriculture policy.
In all these areas we must move away from paralysing vetoes and towards truly effective decision-making.
Europe, that means making a policy for European citizens so that we can create an area of security, solidarity and prosperity for all.
Institutional questions are very important, but first we must give Europe back to its citizens.
That means a President of the Commission elected by the European Parliament and a troika presidency of the European Council that guarantees both continuity and the involvement of individual countries.
So, Mr President, make the policy communal, excluding the right of initiative for the European Commission and with decisions taken by both the Council, by qualified majority, and by Parliament.
Start by ensuring in particular that the content is in order and then provide for an adequate democratic structure through a debate about the institutions.
The future of the European Union is at stake - nothing more and nothing less.
That is why the Convention has had to present a draft constitutional treaty for the European Union under enormous time pressure, a constitution that will prevent the European Union from becoming an impotent giant when it admits 10 new Member States.
A multi-speed Europe in which the influence of Member States varies would weaken the cohesion of the European Union.
I therefore welcome the de facto agreement on the European Foreign Minister.
At least as important as the draft constitution is the fight against illegal immigration, which is very closely linked with the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice.
I dream of a world governed by international law, based on cooperation between all States, large and small.
Nonetheless, thanks to Community cooperation, our Europe is certainly the fairest, most egalitarian society in the world.
Our ambition should be to eliminate the last inequalities in Europe, enabling every individual to work and live decently.
To do so, we need to share: share within the Union, share with the new Member States, share with developing countries.
Politically, our Union must be able to speak with one voice.
This means that the most original institution of the Union, the Commission, must represent all the Member States.
The aim of political action is to satisfy the economic, social, environmental and cultural needs of our citizens.
It goes without saying that we wish to use our foreign policy to promote human rights, democracy and environmental protection.
Hence our demand that we should introduce majority voting in this area, because only in that way can the European Union act effectively in the field of foreign policy.
What we also need is an EU security strategy as a counterpart to the security strategy published by the American administration in September last year.
The debate needs to be an open one and it needs to be held in the European Parliament, because we Europeans must, on the basis of a wide-ranging debate, reach a common position on these important issues.
Above all, we Europeans should make it clear that the EUR 160 billion spent by the 15 EU Member States on defence need to be spent more efficiently in future, and if we want to be up there with the United States we will also need to spend more money, hard though that may be!
If war and peace are at stake, things like this cannot be decided without consulting a directly elected parliament, and in this case that is this House.
Mr President, I would first of all like to join in warmly congratulating the Greek Presidency.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Thessaloniki offers you the opportunity to strengthen the Union's immigration policies and to improve the measures for offering security to European citizens.
And you must manage immigration, which is a different thing, a complex social phenomenon which should be dealt with from different angles.
Return to the map drawn up by the Commission, adopt the legislative framework envisaged, apply the measures proposed by the Commission with regard to third countries, integration, employment, with regard to all the issues relating to this field.
If the leaders of the European Union are going to persist in mixing international organised crime with immigration we are going to have a problem.
This mistake of Sweden's must not be repeated in a constitution for the European Union.
In the same way, all essential aspects of economic policy must remain the responsibility of the Member States.
There are large differences between one country and another, and flexibility is required.
Mr President, the Convention has made progress in many issues of political content.
Of particular importance is the fact that the fundamental rights of EU citizens are to be determined as a binding component of the work of the Union.
There are still shortcomings, however, in the organisation of the division of duties and responsibilities among the institutions.
It was the task of the Convention to put forward proposals to make decision-making more effective, clearer, more democratic and more transparent than before.
This cannot happen, however, with a permanent president who is beyond democratic control, or by reducing the Commission's power of initiative and its executive power.
One very conspicuous institution in all Member States is the Commission.
The work of the Convention has gone in the right direction with regard to the development of EU legislation.
The draft Constitutional Treaty is of primary importance and we hope the Convention will arrive at an integrated proposal which will get the European Union out of its identity crisis, rather than merely at a list of alternative solutions.
I also hope, together with thousands of women's organisations throughout Europe, that the Constitutional Treaty will fully consolidate equality of the sexes in all sectors, abolish any exclusion on the basis of gender and safeguard the balanced participation of men and women in the European democratic institutions.
Women will never accept a constitution which excludes equality of the sexes from the Union's values and objectives.
We therefore need to manage immigration flows better, not to further reinforce our borders, apply repressive measures and/or link immigration with the activities of criminal networks.
Finally, I think the agenda of the EU-USA summit should include: first, the abolition of the death penalty in the United States, secondly, the treatment of the prisoners in Guantanamo and, thirdly, what we called here in this House the lie of the century, by which I mean the existence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.
Mr Vice-President of the European Parliament, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, first I should like to thank the President of the European Parliament, President Prodi and a great many of the speakers for the kind terms in which they referred to the efforts made by the Presidency over the past six months in order to deal with a series of very important issues, and also to thank you for your personal comments.
This is the last day the Greek Presidency and I personally shall attend the European Parliament.
Yes, indeed, it is very important to the Balkans to receive a political message from the European Union, that there is support for their European prospects, that they will be assisted in their European prospects, that they too must make a series of efforts and reforms if they are to move forward successfully, and that we are close by and we have their course towards integration in prospect.
Our Presidency considers that the Balkans are not some far off place.
Consequently, we want the outcome of the meeting to give impetus to the integration procedure, to signal policies and, of course, for there to be appropriate funding to support the efforts of these countries in moving forward.
As far as the issues of immigration are concerned, this is a huge problem for Europe which, if not overshadowed by political developments concerning Iraq over the last six months, will continue to be a heavyweight issue, as it was at the end of the last Presidency.
We are also expecting initiatives from the Commission and Council this month, so that we can see what else can be done.
We must strike a balance between immigrants living in the European area legally and our societies.
However, we must also find funding methods for dealing with these problems.
I should like to close by saying that, a few months after the start of the Greek Presidency, Europe was at a very important and different stage.
We are an area with 25 Member States.
We are an area which, for the last two or three years, has a single currency.
What has happened in the meantime, during these months, has been catalytic for these issues.
We are a Europe which is now discussing new policies, such as the so-called Wider Europe New Neighbourhood policy, the issues of the Balkans, of the Mediterranean, of the Middle East, the issues of economic intergovernmentalism and immigration.
We are an area which, I believe, within all this, must create conditions for confidence in the future of this area in its citizens, conditions for confidence in democracy and human rights, conditions for confidence in social achievements, employment, growth and, in general, conditions for confidence in our ability to respond to the serious problems of our societies.
There is a very simple reason for this.
We decided to form the Convention during our institutions' deepest crisis; we decided on it all together after the night of debate at Nice, when we saw that the intergovernmental method of negotiations between States - precisely, during the intergovernmental nights of talks - did not provide satisfactory results; we decided to take that path in order to restore to our people and our parliaments the sovereignty which befits them.
Now the Convention has got down to business: it was to be a finite process; the Convention was to give the Intergovernmental Conference a finished product.
Instead, a parallel process has emerged: a kind of Intergovernmental Conference parallel to the Convention has come about, which has divided into various fragments and which is in danger, at this time, of further fragmentation.
Therefore, my appeal is very simple: we want the Convention to carry out the Convention's work fully, autonomously; we want it to produce, as you have all requested, a clear, systematic draft, because the Convention Assembly represents all the citizens, all the countries, all the institutions of Europe.
And so, just as I am calling on the Convention to express a single, strong opinion and to present it to the Intergovernmental Conference, I am calling on you, chairmen of the largest European parliamentary groups, to tell our friends and fellow Members in plenary to speak out loud and clear, to make clear the conditions under which they will agree to sign the new agreement upon which Europe must be built.
This is my appeal to you, because, at this time, we all need the Convention's voice for the new Europe. (Loud applause) Thank you, Mr President of the Commission.
I have received six motions for resolutions on this issue in accordance with Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, all morning we have been distressed by the news reaching us of a terrible rail accident which has taken place in my country, in my region of Castilla-La Mancha, in the town of Chinchilla.
Many people have been killed, but what is even more serious is that apparently 21 people have disappeared, burnt to death inside the train's carriages.
Mr Martínez, of course I shall convey the condolences and sympathy of this House through the appropriate channels.
Mr Pannella is able to attend the plenary, but not the committees or the other work of Parliament.
Mr President, I just wish to thank all those Members of the House, across all nationalities, delegations and groups, who signed my written declaration.
This is a wake-up call to the Commission and in particular Commissioner Byrne, whom I now call upon to come before the House to make a statement on this issue.
It is very amusing.
When the Commission takes a position, I ask that we give serious consideration to what the Commission has written, because we always ask this of the Council and the Commission.
The Commission has written in black and white that what we voted on was the request for referral back to committee. (The President asks the speaker to come to the point of order for which he requested the floor) This is not a point of order, Mr President, it is a request for referral back to committee pursuant to Article 144.
The Council, which finds it difficult to come to any agreement, will choose the very argument of the Commission to say no to a single Statute, because some countries do not want a single Statute for Members.
All those who wish to present this text to the Council, which can only say yes or no, since the procedure is for Council assent, must take responsibility before European public opinion for not wanting a European Statute! (Mixed reactions and applause) I would therefore request a referral back to committee to re-examine the matter.
We have now been discussing this subject for five years, and it would not make any sense at all to re-run all those discussions.
It is high time we made a decision on this subject, and I can only call on the House to reach a decision now and not to perpetuate this never-ending debate.
The proposal is that this should be referred back to committee. (Parliament rejected the proposal for referral back to committee) I hope that in the last 24 hours you will have received a copy of the Commission's opinion.
in announcing to the House that following its vote on the draft statute for MEPs, the Commission adopted the opinion required by Article 190(5) of the Treaty at its meeting yesterday and this has been communicated to Parliament.
It is our hope that our opinion can make a positive contribution to concluding the procedure between the three institutions and enable, at long last, a statute for MEPs to enter into force for the next legislature.
On the subject of misunderstandings, I would like to point out that the amendment tabled by my group to delete Article 5 of the resolution simply means that, as the Bureau has agreed the reform, it no longer makes any sense of course to call on the Bureau to adopt this particular reform.
Nevertheless, as far as taxes are concerned, we are open to the Council's proposal that an additional national tax should be introduced for a limited number of Member States.
There is one particular point, however, that ought to be clarified, and I should therefore like to table an oral amendment to paragraph 5.
Amendment No 7, if adopted, would delete the paragraph, in which case the oral amendment would not stand because the paragraph it refers to would have been deleted.
The House is voting on 50 amendments in three reports.
It is also accompanied by an interinstitutional statement by Parliament, Council and Commission, and it has been agreed that this statement should be read into the Minutes of Parliament, that both statements should be published in the Official Journal of the European Union with the legislative text and that this arrangement should also be recorded in Parliament's Minutes now.
This directive was promised us, first of all, after summer 2002, then for the end of 2002.
If we can complete the first reading, this regulation would come into force in the summer, allowing us to achieve a major improvement in maritime safety in our European waters.
Mr Vermeer, can you confirm that the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reform Party withdraws those amendments?
Mr President, it is extremely important not only that we phase out the single-hull oil tankers, but also that we realise there will then be 200 to 300 ships out there somewhere.
I should like to point out to the House that the Portuguese version has already been corrected.
Mr President, I wished to speak on a point of order in accordance with Rule 142, observance of the Rules of Procedure, with regard to Rule 140 b) and c), which relate to the admissibility of amendments.
According to the services, if Amendment No 20 is approved, all the amendments presented to Parliament will lapse and so will all those that have been presented in committee, and its approval would also mean that the legislative text of the Commission's proposal in its entirety would lapse as well.
The Commission told us yesterday, through Commissioner Fischler, during the evening debate, that it was against Amendment No 20, that it was against the other amendments by the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, from No 21 to No 29, and said that they were contrary to the Treaty on the accession of Spain and Portugal.
Mr President, Amendment No 20 intends to extend the Treaty on the accession of Spain and Portugal, which I believe to be legally unacceptable since it contravenes the Community acquis.
Trying to use the Rules of Procedure to stop this House having its democratic say on this amendment would be a serious error.
But I hope you do not rule that it is inadmissible and that we can go ahead with the vote. (Applause) Mr President, as a Portuguese Member of this Parliament, I simply wish to say the following: whatever opinion one has of Amendment No 20, it is totally wrong and dishonest to claim that it has anything to do with the Accession Treaty, which has expired.
The Action Plan proposed by the Commission does not take account of the impact of the decisions taken by the Fisheries Council between 16 and 20 December 2002 and does not provide a response to the problems facing the sector or to the consequences of the restructuring (scrapping) measures and recovery plans which, according to the Commission, would entail the loss of 3 000 jobs per year until the end of 2006, on top of the foreseen loss of 8 000 jobs per year resulting from the crisis in the sector and from fleet renewal.
We agree with the rapporteur on the need for additional funds to compensate for the socio-economic consequences of the reform and the recovery plans, and the Commission must make use of the flexibility instrument or undertake a review of the financial perspective.
The Commission admits that 'financial aid measures in favour of small-scale fisheries have not had the desired effect of protecting the sector'.
consider its options.
This is the direction being taken by the funding measures to scrap small and medium-sized fishing vessels in order to wipe out small and medium-sized fishermen and further reinforce the fishing capabilities of large vessels.
As the fishery reform negotiations draw to a close, the professionals are drawing up the balance sheet for the next 18 months.
With regard to public aid: while the Commission was pushing for an end to public aid from December 2002, the negotiations have led to the current scheme being prolonged until December 2004.
In Brittany, nearly 75% of the fleet needs replacing.
The Commission has presented a proposal to the World Trade Organisation asking for a ban on all subsidies in order to prevent overfishing, on the pretext of maintaining the sustainability of the fishing industry.
With this in mind, I support the rapporteur when he: considers the Commission's assessment of the socio-economic impact of the CFP reform to be extremely theoretical and does not provide sufficiently concrete answers to the problems currently facing the sector; argues that the economically weakest fisheries, which might be hardest hit by the reform, warrant the European Union's solidarity and support; insists on the need for a serious and in-depth debate on the fisheries model that the European Union should adopt and reiterates the importance of maintaining a positive approach.
I have therefore voted in favour of the report.
That is why I voted against this report despite being in favour of the statute in principle.
There were some controversial proposals in the Rothley report, particularly as regards EU tax.
It is questionable whether it is acceptable that a Member of this Parliament be paid more than, for example, the president of his own country, which could happen in certain cases.
The system needs to be reformed, and in such a way that we can take a credible stand and show that we are not getting extra privileges that our own voters are not entitled to. . (EL) I voted in favour of the Rothley report, despite the fact that the amendments proposed by the GUE/NGL, Greens and Liberals were rejected yesterday, for the reasons mentioned by President Cox.
It is one naturally inadequate, step towards transparency and the settlement of an issue which insults the European Parliament.
I have thus voted against this proposal being passed on to the Council.
In the current social and political climate, not just in France but throughout Europe, this decision is unacceptable and unjustifiable.
I have decided to abstain rather than vote against the report because I believe that adopting a single statute for Members is a positive step towards a more united Europe, towards a truly shared destiny, and towards achieving equality for all.
One such aspect is that of establishing the same monthly parliamentary allowance for all Members, whichever country they represent.
Hence our vote against the report. . (FI) Ulpu Iivari, Reino Paasilinna and Riitta Myller, members of the Finnish Social Democratic Party delegation, voted in favour of the Members' Statute, as we believe it is essential to have one, and voting against it would mean the present system would continue.
A condition of final acceptance is, however, that the compromise allowing Finland the right to tax the pay of its Members of the European Parliament which arose during the Belgian Presidency be applied to the Statute.
Nothing should remain outside the scope of these legitimate negotiations. . (NL) The reimbursement of Members' travel expenses must be based on the expenses actually incurred and all Members must receive the same salary.
Many of the things that Parliament is adopting with the Rothley report on the Statute for Members of the European Parliament, such as the late entry into force in 2009 and the subordination of future fellow Members from the accession countries, I do not like.
Moreover, it is the last chance before enlargement to regulate the Statute for Members and with it a better travel expenses scheme.
Here is mine: With regret, I am unable to support the draft Statute of Members in the form in which Parliament adopted it on 3 June.
After yesterday's adoption of taxation at Community level, a salary at 50% of a European Court Judge's, an implementation date after 2004 and immunities which would involve primary legislation, we believe this has gone too far.
Now, apart from the fact that this approach is completely unsustainable in the political context of the new Statute, this could lead to a situation that is quite negative and completely unmanageable, since it would constitute a dual form of discrimination: firstly, it is a different system to that of Members from other Member States; and, secondly, it is also a different system to that applying to other Members of the EP elected in the same Member State.
No, this project does not provide a complete response to the lengthy battle fought over the best part of the last five years by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party; but yes, I voted in favour: in favour of reform, in favour of the future, and in favour of setting the truly European aspects of this House in stone.
That is why I congratulate myself on the agreement reached on Articles 16 and 18.
These are all highly controversial questions, which threaten to delay the adoption of the Statute for Members until the twelfth of never. . (SV) I have today voted against the European Parliament's report on a new Statute for Members now that the Commission has issued its opinion following yesterday's vote in plenary.
The proposal was nonetheless approved by 323 votes, with 167 against and 39 abstentions.
The new Statute would not lead to increased openness unless, instead of the current system involving flat-rate payments, there were a system for the reimbursement of travel costs whereby it was the actual costs that were reimbursed.
Certainly, Parliament's Praesidium decided on 29 May 2003 to investigate how a new system for the reimbursement of travel costs could be designed, but that does not solve the problem.
A decision to refund actual costs should enter into force automatically at the same time as a new Statute for Members is brought into operation.
Environmentally friendly investments for the small-scale generation of electricity have been neglected or ruled out in favour of the importation of nuclear power.
Once again, the majority of EP Members are choosing to call for the total liberalisation of the natural gas sector and also accepting the positions put forward by the UNICE in relation to this aim of the so-called 'Lisbon Strategy'.
In general terms, this is an attempt to impose competition rules on all sectors that involve public service, providing incentives for privatisation, calling into question the guarantee of security of supply, investment capacity, equal access to the best prices and to a high-quality service and will lead to the deterioration of employees' rights in the sectors in question.
As for the gas sector, the EP has acted as the spokesperson for the interests of the European employers' confederation, UNICE.
This is why our parliamentary group tabled a motion rejecting the common position and various proposals for amendments seeking to mitigate the negative aspects of the recommendation, not least with regard to ensuring respect for public service obligations, for the environment, for the specific characteristics of the outermost regions, and for protection for domestic consumers and small consumers.
The European Union already reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 4% between 1990 and 1999, and will be able to fulfil the remaining reduction quota by 2012 (4%) through low-cost measures.
According to data provided by the European Commission, it is possible to comply with the Kyoto Protocol by implementing measures costing less than EUR 20 per tonne of CO2.
Even though I understand the rapporteur's desire to bring this legislative procedure to a close after the second reading (and I would like to draw attention to his hard work and great receptiveness of mind), I am unable to vote against the reference to the precautionary principle.
The proposals contained in this report, however, as at first reading, make significant improvements to the text.
An agreement in this field could be important to speeding up the process of ratifying the Cartagena Protocol on biological safety and biodiversity.
Furthermore, the proposals suggest that GMO imports cannot take place without the prior written consent of the importing country and that the signing of agreements and conventions cannot lead to a level of protection lower than that provided by the current regulation and by the protocol.
As everyone knows, the overall aim of the Cartagena Protocol on Biological Safety adopted on 29 January 2000, consists of contributing to ensuring an adequate level of protection in the field of the safe transfer, handling and use of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) produced by modern biotechnology, that may have adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, taking also into account risks to human health, including cross-border movements in particular.
In line with the position of the Portuguese Government, however, I believe it is important that we now undertake this exercise at European level, in order to ensure the most important factor in this matter, which is a high degree of consumer protection.
I voted in favour because, following the shipwreck of the Prestige off the coast of Spain and the huge ecological disaster, immediate protection is required from single hull tankers by imposing an immediate timetable for withdrawing them from circulation.
We also supported the Commission's new proposal to speed up the introduction of double hull oil tankers and withdraw single hull tankers, as well as toughening safety restrictions.
This report should have been adopted a long time ago, as Philippe de Villiers indeed requested.
It should apply not only to ships sailing under the flag of a Member State or putting in at one of our ports, but also to any oil tanker sailing in our economic area.
We are without doubt in favour of this aim, as we have demonstrated by voting in favour of all the previous reports on the subject.
The measures contained in the report are important both in enhancing maritime safety and in preventing the type of environmental disaster which the Galician coast recently suffered.
Any arrangements must be introduced within the framework of the IMO and the ILO, which should play an essential role in international shipping, without accepting the philosophy of compromise with shipping interests.
A typical example of how such interests are served at the expense of the environment are the long transitional periods, without any real justification in terms of security of supply, and the exemption from the double hull requirement for ships over 500 - 600 tonnes.
The occurrence, in a very short space of time, of two major disasters, the Erika and the Prestige and having to deal with the variety and gravity of their consequences showed us all how crucial it is for decisions to be taken in this field.
Furthermore, and as the European Commission study was charged with demonstrating, rapidly eliminating single hull tankers, as is proposed, will not lead to a substantial reduction in capacity for oil and, as the rapporteur states, the capacity and international recognition of European shipyards could even benefit by having new vessels to build.
I also agree with the rapporteur's assertion that we must extend the implementation of the proposals now proposed by the European Commission to the International Maritime Organisation, firmly promoting the necessary negotiations in this field.
I have therefore voted in favour of the report.
The proposed waiting times are still unsatisfactory: the seaworthy age limit for Prestige-type (category one) oil tankers has been fixed at 23 years from 2005; for category two and three ships (mostly built between 1982 and 1986), the age limit is 28 years from 2010.
It would have been better if all dangerous ships had been prevented from putting to sea, and shipyard production shifted by public policy towards the construction and development of safe, modern ships.
On the Hudghton report the position taken by the EPLP relates to our political support for regional advisory councils, subsidiarity and scope for some decentralised management measures.
On the Stevenson report - formerly the Ó Neachtain report - on western waters concerning the Irish Box, the position has been taken on conservation grounds relating to a vulnerable spawning area and in line with longstanding regional support for the Irish Box.
Amendment No 20, which effectively gives a 10-year derogation to the Irish Box, is a vital conservation measure and we support it.
The protection of juveniles is a priority for guaranteeing the conservation of fish stocks and their long-term sustainability.
In fact, we have always called for social dialogue with the sector to be improved, as demonstrated by our proposals in the opinion that we delivered under the 2003 budget procedure.
I think that we were on the right track when, in the technical regulation in force, Member States were authorised to adopt measures in certain emergency situations and in relation to their own vessels, with the proviso that they could not be less stringent than the requirements laid down in Community law.
The Commission must understand that a sustainable and viable fisheries sector is only possible if it has the trust and cooperation of the fishermen and pays attention to the points of view of the parties concerned.
In fact, this omission would run counter to what Commissioner Fischler promised fishermen in a speech in London, when he urged them to 'come and participate and make sure that they become full players in the fisheries management process'.
It was an irresponsible amendment which seeks to maintain Regulations (EC) Nos 2847/93 and 685/95 for a period of 10 years.
It is completely unjustifiable that this Parliament should vote to allow that situation to remain for 10 years.
This nationalistic approach in Parliament towards fisheries is extremely hard to accept from an ecological point of view.
Mr Ó Neachtain's report in committee was very good, but, unfortunately, it was voted down by a few votes because Spanish Members voted for their own interests - just like the Irish.
The vast majority of Parliament would have supported that position because it was a very fair and reasonable compromise.
The situation in the Irish Box will remain unchanged for 10 years, despite the fact that it is recognised that there is a crisis.
This Parliament should take its role seriously in protecting fish stocks and not just protect basic selfish national interests.
It is time we realised that we have to maintain fish stocks.
The Commission and the Council should also take this advice, that it is time we sought to ensure that fish stocks remain, and not just the industry, which will have nothing to fish for in the future if it does not realise that there is a problem.
Mr President, on the issue of fishing, there is a constant tendency in this Parliament to confuse privileges with conservation.
I agree that there must be areas in which special conservation measures must be taken, and even that there must be no fishing in them for many years.
In this regard, the case of the Irish Box for example, or other areas in European Community waters, that is, continental waters, is not the same as the case of the Azores.
In the Azores, the problem is that they do not have a continental shelf, and those islands must be granted a privilege so that they can survive by means of fishing.
In the Irish Box or other areas, we are talking about a privilege granted to several States in violation of Community law.
In this regard, this confusion has been exploited to achieve a vote whose result I believe to be profoundly wrong.
A clear sign needed to be sent to the Council Presidency, because the proposal for a compromise, supported by the Commission and promoted by Spain, intended to create a single Atlantic zone to manage the fishing effort without dividing up the current conservation areas, not only fails to contribute to a sustainable policy in the field of fisheries, but would also have harmful effects, not least for Portugal, in terms of the conservation measures already in place and in socio-economic terms, both for the fleet and for regions that are dependent on the sector.
We therefore helped to ensure that Amendment No 20 to this report was adopted, and we are fully behind it, since it proposes to continue with the current regulations for a period of ten years, after which, the arrangements will be assessed once again.
I wish to state, despite the fact that all of the other proposals for amendments to the regulation have been rejected, that the Committee on Fisheries adopted our proposal to extend the limit of access to the exclusive economic area of the Azores and Madeira to 200 miles.
I do not believe the Commission can, on the one hand, say we must open up access to the Irish Box and, on the other, preach conservation and protection of fish in other areas.
In this report the Commission is coming forward with a new regulation to regulate the access of, for example, Spanish fishing vessels to the Irish Box.
On the accession of Spain and Portugal it was impossible to foresee what disastrous changes would overtake fish stocks.
Equal opportunities for all Member States is a fine starting point, but better still is a full sea in which there is enough to fish.
Furthermore, I believe that Amendment No 20 is inadmissible within the meaning of Rule 140(1)a) and b) of the EP's Rules of Procedure.
That is the message of my report.
There is no reason therefore to give this country special treatment on account of its size or its strategic position.
These problems are mainly in the area of the Copenhagen political criteria.
More than ever perhaps the emphasis in this report is placed on the background to or deeper causes of the political shortcomings which usually manifest themselves in violations of classical freedom rights and of fundamental human rights.
The criticism of Turkey concerns the structures of the State, the dominant political position of the army, the National Security Council, which is dominated by the military, the nationalism that leads to suppression of ethnic, religious and cultural minorities and the priority for collective security and collective interests over individual human rights, which again and again gives cause for complaint.
The army also has a very strong influence in education, broadcasting and the business community and it is very important that this is also recognised in part in Turkey's latest reform packages.
Apart from these problems we also mention those on the borders, with both Cyprus and Armenia and possibly with Iraq.
The idea of candidate membership is that the country concerned develops into a Member State like the others.
A directly elected parliament may see this more readily and with greater concern than a council of ministers.
We therefore invite the Council to be just as clear in its policy towards Turkey as this Parliament and not to cling to symbols and symbolic dates.
That means radical changes, as other candidates have also experienced.
Which is why we warmly applaud the plan to draw up a new Constitution, while expressing the wish that the political values that are supported in other Member States will be taken as a starting point.
Furthermore, the army must relinquish its present dominant position and be brought back to a form and function that is usual in other Member States.
Mr President, I am pleased with the broad support for the report that exists in this Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to take the opportunity of the adoption of the O?stlander report today in order to refer to relations between the European Union and Turkey and developments in the accession strategy for Turkey.
Within this framework, it is necessary to emphasise that important elements are not only the adaptation of legislation in relation to the Copenhagen criteria, but also its material application.
And the Commission has clearly underlined this point, mainly in the annual progress reports.
A new government has taken over power, with strong support from the people.
Recent surveys have also shown that this objective is shared by an important majority of public opinion in Turkey.
At the Copenhagen Council, the Union itself recognised that the new Turkish Government was resolved to proceed with further reform and it urged it in particular to deal quickly with all the weaknesses which continue to exist in the field of political criteria, in relation both to legislation and to the application of legislation.
Within this framework, the Union encouraged Turkey to actively continue the reform process.
If the European Council in December 2004, based on the Commission's report and recommendation, decides that Turkey meets the political criteria of Copenhagen, the Union will renew accession negotiations with Turkey without delay.
That was, as you all know, a very weighty decision for the future of relations between the European Union and Turkey.
However, I should like at this point for us to see what the situation looks likes six months after Copenhagen.
Ladies and gentlemen, during the Greek Presidency, we have worked systematically to implement the elements of the accession strategy in accordance with the decisions taken in Copenhagen.
The revised partnership adopted by the General Affairs and External Relations Council in April 2003 is of particular importance in helping Turkey to deal with the main issues in its attempt to meet the political criteria.
A revised national programme for the adoption of the acquis, with clearly defined targets, is expected to constitute Turkey's planned response to the new partnership.
Similarly, we have held three political dialogue meetings, one of which at ministerial level, when we had an opportunity to see exactly what is expected of Turkey up to the end of 2004.
The Presidency and the Commission have planned another two meetings in the more specific aim of examining progress in meeting the political criteria.
The Association Council was convened in April at ministerial level and evaluated the progress both of the pre-accession strategy and the status of the partnership.
At this point, I should like, guided by the recently adopted revised partnership, to refer with greater clarity to the main issues that we expect Turkey to deal with up to its evaluation in 2004.
Of course, this is not intended either to discount the Commission evaluation within the framework of this year's, and more importantly, next year's progress report, nor does it have to do with any other criteria over and above the Copenhagen criteria.
The partnership was the product of valuable experience from two years of helping Turkey to adopt political reforms.
Political control by the parliament and via a democratically controlled government of all the institutions and bodies of state is, therefore, a basic issue which Turkey will need to address effectively.
This also involves the simple legal adaptation of the rules and raises telling and very material issues in connection with relations between the elected government and the army.
On the question of human rights and the rule of law, there has undoubtedly been progress, even in sectors which a short time ago were considered prohibited.
We must not forget that the abolition of the death penalty and the introduction of the right to use and teach minority languages are a big step forward.
At the Association Council last April, the Union clarified the fact that basic outstanding issues in the field of political criteria require Turkey's immediate attention.
There are also additional elements in relation to the human rights situation.
These are the recent attack by the security forces on the Turkish Human Rights Association, continuing deaths from hunger strikes in high security gaols and the uncertain outcome of the case pending against Leila Zana, which we have also discussed here in Parliament.
All these issues are elements in an imperfect reform process in which reforms formally adopted have not always resulted in practice in the improvement to the situation which had been hoped for.
I could also refer to the report by Amnesty International on Turkey, which paints a picture of a human rights situation with numerous problems, but there is no reason now to go into that in detail.
They cover important sectors of the economic criteria and I think that they also correspond to the stated intention of the Turkish Government to improve the economic situation in the country.
Despite the fact that efforts by the United Nations Secretary-General to resolve the Cyprus problem ended in an impasse in the Hague, his plan is still on the table.
The spring Council expressed its regret that efforts by the Secretary-General had failed.
The Union vigorously supports the continuation of the good offices of the Secretary-General and of the negotiations on the basis of his proposals.
Within this framework, the priority of the Turkish partnership to support efforts to find an overall solution to the Cyprus question through the good offices of the Secretary-General and negotiations based on his proposals continues to be of decisive importance.
The President of the European Council also referred to this matter in recent public statements.
The government of the Republic of Cyprus has demonstrated in practice its will to facilitate such a solution.
The protocol on Cyprus attached to the Association Agreement also allows a margin for this development.
But our common will is to achieve something along these lines by 1 May 2004.
As far, then, as the question of a peaceful solution to the differences is concerned, a change in the atmosphere of Greek-Turkish relations has already been noted in various sectors.
Exploratory contacts between the two ministries of foreign affairs started in March 2002.
We are looking forward to further progress in this sector on the basis of the principle of a peaceful solution to the differences in accordance with the Helsinki conclusions and the relative priority of the partnership.
As decided in Helsinki, the Council will examine the situation in relation to the outstanding differences and, more importantly, their repercussions on the integration process, with a view to promoting their settlement through the International Court in the Hague by the end of 2004 at the latest.
In closing, allow me to welcome once again Parliament's acute interest in the integration strategy for Turkey.
In recent weeks and months Turkey has often been in the limelight, and the most recent international developments have once again highlighted Turkey's importance for peace and stability in a region directly bordering the European Union and which is simultaneously one of the most crisis-prone regions of the world.
At the same time the advantages for the European Union of having a Muslim country standing firmly by its side are becoming ever clearer, providing living proof that it is perfectly possible for such a country to share our values.
Turkey has a key role to play here.
The Copenhagen European Council gave Turkey a clear political road map.
Thirdly, a revised Accession Partnership for Turkey was adopted on 14 April.
This of course involves very close attention being paid to the political criteria.
The reforms adopted in Turkey over the last 18 months are extremely impressive.
It is clear that the decision taken in Helsinki to grant Turkey the status of a candidate country has acted as an effective incentive for Turkey to set a series of reforms in train.
We have carefully noted the announcement by Prime Minister Erdogan's government that it intends to draw up a new constitution.
Furthermore, we are aware of Turkey's intention to adopt a further package of political reforms in the very new future.
I would like to stress very firmly that our assessment will not only be based on what legislation has come into force, but also on compliance in practice with the Copenhagen political criteria.
Despite the political reforms it seems that the behaviour of at least some parts of the judiciary, security forces and prison staff has not changed in practice.
This is why, despite the reforms that have been adopted, it is not yet possible to make a definitive judgment.
It is now extremely important that the new verdict should reflect the spirit of the democratic and constitutional reforms that Turkey has introduced in recent months.
If Turkey wishes to enhance the credibility of its reform process, it must bridge the gap between the spirit of the political reforms and their practical implementation.
Yesterday, as a sign of good will and with a view to maintaining political momentum, the Commission adopted a package of measures for the Turkish Cypriot community, comprising extensive financial support for economic development and further strengthening links with the European Union, combined with measures to promote trade.
Turkey has only limited time left in which to comply with the Copenhagen political criteria.
I would therefore like to stress once again that the Heads of State and Government of the 15 Member States - all 15 - have in recent years repeatedly and firmly committed themselves to the fundamental principle that Turkey should become a member of the European Union.
Turkey is a candidate for accession, and it has the right to expect its application for membership to be dealt with honestly, fairly and objectively.
I have long argued for the need to send a strong, positive signal to Turkey that will sustain the commitment to modernisation and westernisation that has been a feature of that country for 80 years or more.
I welcome the measures taken by the Commission in the last few days to help lift the embargo.
It is most important that in December 2004 the European Union gives an early date for the opening of negotiations on Turkey's membership.
As Mr Oostlander rightly says, the report shows that the door is open, but the path is arduous.
For this reason, the army is keeping a watchful eye on it, although - and here too I am behind Commissioner Verheugen - there are, thank goodness, some members of the military who recognise the path to democracy, because they know that is also the path to Europe.
I also consider the initiatives of the Turkish Government gradually to remove the military from areas not directly connected to security, such as the media and education, to be the right way forward.
The road ahead is still a long and arduous one, and there will continue to be some resistance, but I believe that the path Turkey has chosen is the right one.
I know, too, that Commissioner Verheugen has often been criticised in Turkey for his tough but clear words.
And the reality is that, sooner or later, Cyprus will be a united Cyprus, because this unnatural border, this last border of walls and barbed wire, can no longer be sustained.
Our Turkish friends have undeniably made progress on very many fronts in recent years.
We therefore support the reforms of the political and legal system the Erdogan government has in mind.
We are glad that the Erdogan government has now tabled legislative proposals to strengthen freedom of speech and to permit the use of Kurdish in audiovisual resources and election campaigns.
It comes down above all to its application in practice.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the efforts of Mr Oostlander's report to do justice to developments in Turkey.
The problem areas have now been stated in more concrete terms and the criticism has generally been couched in more objective language than before.
Threats are commonplace, and some reference to the difficult position of human rights activists in Turkey would have been appropriate.
Criticism regarding the case of Leyla Zana and the other DEP party MPs could have been expressed more clearly.
The report makes absolutely no mention of the case of Öçalan.
It is evidently too delicate an issue, however, for the name of Öçalan to bear mention in a report of the European Parliament.
The EU is a political and economic union.
The report, despite all its shortcomings, demonstrates this and makes it clear that there are no plans to open accession negotiations at the present time.
Let us hope that the report will contribute to changing the policy of the Turkish Government in such a way that enables Turkey to accede to the European Union.
In my eyes there is a carefully considered compromise on this question in the text and I honestly find the constant attempts to tighten the thumbscrews on this point increasingly irritating.
Finally, a third remark in response to the rapporteur's proposal.
It is in fact one of a constant struggle between, on the one hand, the reformers - strong in the government and in Parliament - and on the other, the conservatives - strong in the army, the police and the judiciary.
In this struggle it is the task of the European Union, but also of the European Parliament, to - naturally - criticise the conservatives.
For example, if it is a question of the new package of reform proposals that is now before the Turkish Parliament and in which, after long urging by the European Parliament, for example Article 8 of the Anti-Terrorism Act is actually deleted and in which Kurdish private media are actually being given the opportunity to broadcast.
I share the rapporteur's view - and I would refer to paragraph 52 - that, at present, Turkey does not fulfil the conditions for the opening of accession negotiations.
The report underpins this frank conclusion in a convincing manner.
Three fundamental inconsistencies with the political criteria of Copenhagen - which are, after all, essential accession conditions - are all-important in this connection: firstly, the army's dominant position in the Turkish state and society, for which, see paragraphs 7, 8 and 9; secondly, the constant discrimination against religious minorities, particularly that of Christian denominations (paragraph 39); and thirdly, the disturbing Kurdish issue, mentioned in paragraphs 34, 35 and 43.
The Oostlander report, however, over and above its more general objective and balanced formulations, is mainly characterised by the clarity and frankness with which it notes and brands Turkey's permanent weaknesses, shortcomings and imperfections in the fields of the rule of law, democratic governance, human and minority rights and its lawful international conduct.
This position on my part is based on the following reasons: First, as a Greek I should like this neighbouring country of Greece's to grow and develop the creative ability of its people within the democratic frameworks which the European Union safeguards all its members.
I believe that the Greek people and the Turkish people will have a unique opportunity to cooperate in the joint effort for a peaceful and prosperous Europe and mutually supportive, deeper bilateral relations between them.
Secondly, as a socialist, I should like to see a democratic Turkey safeguard institutional guarantees for all the freedoms of its citizens so that they can intervene creatively and unimpeded in the development of their society in accordance with the desires, expectations, inspirations and output of their work.
I believe that the economic and cultural development of Turkey as the consequence of the freedom of action of its citizens under the rule of law will have exponential benefits for Turkey itself to start with, for the European Union certainly and, without any shadow of a doubt, for rapprochement, understanding and cooperation on the part of the countries and peoples neighbouring Turkey.
I am convinced that the interventions of the military in the political life of a country, either directly or indirectly, do not solve any problems.
I have no particular regard for or trust in nation-saving soldiers the world over, who see any free expression or action as a military target to be neutralised using every means, not excluding, of course, bans, imprisonment, torture and natural extermination.
Turkey's European prospects therefore depend on the soldiers returning to their barracks and being supervised by the political leadership democratically elected by the people to govern them.
Thirty years ago, when a military junta took it upon itself to bring the Greek people to their senses from the excesses of their democratic excitement, the EEC, as it was then, froze the association agreement with Greece and that helped us considerably in restoring democratic normalcy to my country.
It is in its hands, its political leadership wants it and the Oostlander report lays down the preconditions for avoiding misunderstandings.
On all these points, I believe one can only agree with the rapporteur.
You see, Mr Oostlander, as Turkey applies to join the European Union (and it is natural for that application to give rise to discussion and even argument), any pride it can take today in its positive historical legacy is attributable to that very attempt to introduce our European secularism into a Muslim society.
Mr President, Turkey had the right to apply for membership.
On the one hand there is the secular state, on the other the strong position of the Turkish army reflected in the power of the National Security Council, which implies military power over civilians.
As is abundantly clear from the Oostlander report, the country is not yet a democracy as long as human rights are violated and as long as the rights of minorities are not absolutely guaranteed.
The position of the Kurdish language, the exclusion of the Kurds from political life, or at least the attempt to exclude them, is evidence of the fact that they do not want a political solution to this important conflict of nationalities.
The threat of fundamentalism remains, although the AKP has adopted a reformist policy.
We recognise that major progress has been made in legislation, such as the abolition of capital punishment, but far-reaching reforms have not yet been carried out.
In paragraph 11 of the Oostlander report, it is suggested that serious work be done on constitutional matters.
This is a splendid report, which lists all the critical points without offending Turkey.
It is fair and open, and I believe that anyone applying for accession has the right to be treated fairly and openly.
It is not - as is written in the minority opinion - about precepts of an almost parareligious nature; clause 3 states specifically that fundamental European values, although based on the Judeo-Christian legacy, but also encompassing the values of the Enlightenment, do not stand in the way of the accession of a Muslim state in principle.
The other points mentioned were the role of the army, minority rights for the Kurds, the right to vote, in other words the fact that the 10% hurdle is still in place, the imprisonment of persons motivated by political or moral conviction such as Leyla Zana, who will soon have spent ten years in prison for speaking freely, or the issue of the heritage of the Armenians and Syrians, which is not protected at present in Turkey.
This will be reviewed at the end of 2004.
Furthermore, as an interim report, this report can in no way signify that Parliament has committed itself one way or another with regard to a later decision to approve or reject Turkey's application for accession.
My dear Mr Langen, I think very highly of you, but I have heard this speech often in the past, irrespective of what is happening in Turkey.
Mr President, I recently drove over one of the two bridges between Istanbul and Üsküdar.
The Bosphorus Bridge took me from the more ancient Istanbul to the more modern Üsküdar.
We should give the country the help it needs in order to reform itself and become a perfectly satisfactory future candidate country.
The President-in-Office of the Council said there are two priority areas.
In this context, Mr Oostlander, if this Parliament had been given the possibility of producing a report as detailed as this one not only on the countries applying for accession, but also on the current Member States of the Union (I am thinking here of my own country), the fact is that it would have taken not 56 paragraphs, but perhaps twice that, to deal with conditions in Italian prisons, the state of the Italian legal system, and many other areas besides, in which things are going badly.
Our countries have experienced all of that.
We have therefore tabled an amendment in which we declare ourselves convinced that the conditions for Turkey to be admitted to the accession negotiations will be fulfilled as long as the Turkish Government pursues its current programme of essential reform with steadfastness and determination.
Mr President, Mr Oostlander has accomplished a huge, difficult task, endeavouring to reconcile the extremely diverse viewpoints expressed by Parliament on a controversial and much-debated subject such as Turkey's accession.
The result is a resolution which is acceptable as a compromise but which we might have liked to be marked and inspired by greater optimism so as to send Turkey a more positive message, as Commissioner Verheugen advocated too, despite the fact that this country still has a great deal to do and many changes and innovations to make before it can hope to join the European Union, as the resolution rightly states.
We need to establish whether geography and religion are criteria which restrict the possibility of accession or whether Europe is conceived as a set of values and principles with the result that countries that share those values and principles of democracy and freedom have the right to apply for membership.
Mr President, the Oostlander report has undergone a major face-lift, with 283 amendments tabled.
A re-reading of The Gospel according to Jesus Christ, by the Portuguese Nobel Prize Laureate José Saramago, is necessary to remind us how many crimes have been committed in the name of our gods.
Mr President, it is important that we treat our Turkish friends with honesty and openness.
We want to help Turkey on its path to true democracy and the rule of law.
Turkey deserves fair treatment, and Mr Oostlander's report is fair.
This applies equally to all candidate countries, and so it also applies to Turkey.
What Turkey can expect from us - and it really can - is honesty, openness, seriousness and fairness.
It is not the European Union which wants to become part of Turkey but Turkey which wants to subscribe to these shared values.
I would venture to say that the countries which intend to share our European culture may become part of the European Union.
Turkey is applying to join.
The ideological NATOists believe that Turkey's role in NATO could be its trump card when it comes to joining the European Union.
That might have been so in the past, but we now believe that NATO, with the participation of Russia, will gradually have to assume, with a slightly more effective contribution from the European Union, an international policing role, serving a United Nations which has been reformed to safeguard human rights and democracy in the countries of the world.
I hope that Turkey will be able to act on these proposals, to resolve the Cyprus issue and to establish good neighbourly relations with all the countries on its borders, resolving longstanding conflicts.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
It is our view that our shortcomings in common security and defence policy have been ruthlessly exposed by the Iraq conflict and that, in consequence, has badly damaged the transatlantic partnership.
But unless the Member States demonstrate a political will to pursue joint action, the development of the common defence and security policy in the context of the transatlantic alliance will not have the force that it both demands and deserves.
As President Bush said earlier this week in Poland, the common values that underpin that transatlantic relationship are the common foreign policy element that can bring the European Union together with the USA.
The USA is such a strong partner that if the European Union cannot speak with one voice - if not a common voice, perhaps a single voice, but at least a coordinated voice - then we will continue to fall behind in the transatlantic partnership.
It is not just the European Union that has been damaged by the conflict in Iraq and by the outfall of that conflict; Nato and the United Nations have also been seriously damaged.
Most Member States of the European Union are an integral part of Nato, and even those who are not still believe that Nato is the fundamental guarantee for European Atlantic stability.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Council shares the honourable Member's deep concern about the state of relations between the Union and the United States.
The issue for the Union is how this objective will be adopted on the basis of the already very broad cooperation taking place in the western Balkans, Afghanistan, the Middle East and in connection with North Korea.
Focusing attention on issues on which the Union and the United States differ very often conceals this cooperation, which is appreciated by both sides.
As the honourable Member of Parliament knows, the High Representative will submit a document to the European Council in Thessaloniki containing recommendations for a global Union strategy in the field of foreign policy and security.
A preliminary discussion of the subject could be held in the General Affairs and External Relations Council in June.
It is obvious that, although this will be a general strategy, it will also contribute to the development of EU-USA relations.
Just as the development of the foreign and security policy is allowing the Union to deal more efficiently with recent events, including its cooperation with the United States in the Middle East, Afghanistan or the western Balkans, in the field of the European security and defence policy, improving European military capabilities continues to be a high priority for the Union, so that the Union can become a more efficient partner of the United States.
The New Transatlantic Agenda provides the most extensive framework for cooperation with the United States.
The action plan may perhaps now be outdated, but that does not apply to the New Transatlantic Agenda.
The dialogue we have with the United States is already intensive, with countless continual contacts at all levels.
We hope that the development of an overall Union strategy will renew the dialogue with the United States and increase its usefulness to the situations developing around the world.
Following 11 September 2001, our cooperation has extended beyond all expectations on both sides.
Over and above what is being said about differences, there is very often ignorance on both sides of the Atlantic about the essential and specific work being carried out jointly in order to combat terrorism.
The United States need Europe, just as we need the United States if we want to be successful in combating the challenges of this century.
Finally, the transatlantic legislative dialogue is an exceptionally important element in transatlantic relations.
Whereas the Council's contacts are to a great extent with the government of the United States, Parliament can play a vital role by reinforcing its dialogue with the members of Congress, in the aim of promoting an understanding of the concerns and priorities of the peoples of the European Union.
The Council is not authorised to dictate to civil society the role which it can play in this dialogue.
In some respects it would have been a matter for greater concern if the trauma of a war had not prompted such a heartfelt debate.
Nor do I doubt that some of the problems thrown into relief by the war in Iraq have deeper roots.
I have spoken in this place and elsewhere of longer-term trends in some circles in the United States which are properly a cause of concern to Europeans.
Above all we must encourage political leaders and public opinion in the United States to resist those who argue in favour of overturning 50 years of American internationalism and multilateralism in pursuit of an illusory sense of security.
Whatever their motivation, those in the United States who reject multilateralism must know that such an approach contains a depressing element of self-fulfilling prophecy.
But we agree to manage our differences and to continue the dialogue.
We threaten the United States with FSC retaliatory measures and they take us to the WTO because they think that we are too slow in approving new genetically-modified products.
But Europe and the US remain the largest trading partners in the world, and conflicts account for only a fraction of our total trade.
Of course our dialogue with the United States reaches far beyond the Commission's traditional domain of trade and economic relations.
We are working closely with the US on a range of issues concerning transport security.
And, building on the experience of EU-US cooperation in the Balkans, we are already working together on the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
In support of the government dialogue both Europe and United States have recently reconfirmed their commitment to the Transatlantic Business Dialogue in a more focused format.
Turning to the point on different economic models, we do not see the differences between NAFTA and the FTAA, on the one hand, and the European Union, on the other, as obstacles to a closer transatlantic economic relationship.
Rather we see them as different paths towards a common destination: greater global economic integration.
The regional convergence of collective preferences can be addressed in the multilateral context in a fair and constructive way, but also in bilateral terms, notably by focusing on the identification of sectoral and mutually beneficial initiatives that have a direct positive impact on business and market conditions.
In the realm of development assistance strategies, both Europe and the United States are committed to the new global partnership for development.
But, it is precisely because we are still recovering from the rigours of this crossing that we should take a little time to steady ourselves and ensure that any new long-term strategy is not misdirected by the emotions and pressures of the short term.
This is all the more true at a time when the European Union is engaged in a fundamental review of its own purpose and structures - including a new European Security Strategy - and the US is heading towards the early stages of a presidential election campaign.
The role of the European Parliament will be essential in this regard.
There are just two points I would like to make in addition as a brief footnote.
First of all the House has probably heard me say before that there is very little that we want to achieve in Europe which we are not more likely to achieve if we can work in cooperation with the United States.
It is almost equally the case that many, if not most, of the things that the United States wants to achieve are more likely to be achievable if the United States can work with Europe.
One final point: I suppose it is possible to frame a view of relations for the future in terms of the solidarity that we enjoyed in the years after the Second World War, when Europe, principally, pressed for the security structures which led to the establishment of Nato and when America pressed for the economic and political integration which led to the establishment of the Common Market and eventually to the European Union.
It seems to my group that whereas in the 1980s the security partnership underpinned the transatlantic relationship and we had economic differences, now the economic market and integration on trade and investment are underpinning the transatlantic relationship, while the security side is looking somewhat fragile.
An American diplomat expressed this nicely a few days ago: he said that we, in Europe, are looking at problems from a 2003 perspective: the problems of building the European Union, our foreign policy and the beginnings of an external strategy.
The United States, on the other hand, is looking much more to the problems of 2020, with the weapons of mass destruction and a whole range of other things, on a global basis, which we tend not to do.
The message which should be sent to the summit is therefore that politics, economics and security policy in the post-Cold War world are all beginning to be closely intertwined.
Yes, we need to understand each other, as the Council President has said, but surely we need more collaboration, not just in particular instances, such as the war against terrorism: we need a long-term framework to get to grips with that problem and shift the emphasis from a Community of values to a Community of action, dealing with problems of AIDS in the Third World, nuclear proliferation and a range of other things which Europe and America face jointly as global challenges.
In concluding, it seems to me that we need a long-term European strategy to know what we want before we can shape a transatlantic strategy and think on similar terms with the Americans.
Within this context, if Europe wishes to meet its responsibilities it must turn itself into an organisation capable of playing a significant role on the international stage and, in order to achieve this, European policy must permanently pursue the objective of multilateralising the United States - an objective which is not entirely out of reach if we consider that opinion polls indicate that almost two-thirds of the American public prefer multilateral approaches to unilateral ones.
I would finally like to say that I believe that positions expressed by the High Representative and Commissioner Patten, as well as the specific proposals presented by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, are aimed in the right direction and we will support them.
Commissioner Patten is right.
We must put the trauma of Iraq to one side and, as the European Union, draft a joint global strategy with the United States.
If it is shown that the US State Department was providing misinformation when it said that there were weapons of mass destruction in Iraq - and we are seeing that this was merely a manipulation - and if we remember that in the document from that Department of 20 September 2002, the UN, the European Union and international law were dispensed with and it is stated simply that the United States are going to dictate laws in the future, I believe we are facing a great threat to the world and also to Europe.
Fortunately, Europe is based on peace, international law and the peaceful resolution of conflicts, and must play a major role in order to make progress in that direction and prevent the new threats of this conservative Bush administration, thereby restoring the friendship between the American people and ourselves.
Madam President, I was not aware that idealism was the dominant philosophy in the European Parliament.
This situation changed following the fall of Communism.
We therefore need to strengthen the role of the euro as a safe currency that rivals the dollar.
Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to discuss the subject of transatlantic relations, you must find the courage to put this problem to the United States.
We will not succeed in building a new transatlantic relationship if we in the European Union do not have our own doctrine on all the strategic problems, on all the military problems, on our vision of the world and on what we want in the world.
We should not forget that over the last 50 years we have worked together to fashion an international legal order covering not just trade and security issues, but also issues relating to human rights and fundamental freedoms.
It is equally important that the high emotions that exist at this time do not cause us to exaggerate our differences across a range of policy matters.
We should seek to address the relationship between the European Union and the USA by taking a careful and measured approach, rather than dealing with this very important relationship in a knee-jerk fashion.
The bottom line is simply this: I believe that the Union and the USA should work together to preserve our common interests, to minimise our collective differences, to maximise our own influence for good in the world.
We must advance a positive agenda on trade matters and resolve disputes before they go to the WTO process.
We are working closely together in the Balkans and Afghanistan.
In Afghanistan the European Union has a bigger military presence than the United States.
The Middle East process has a better chance of success if the European Union and the United States work together with all the key contracting parties in the region so as to ensure that the present road map for peace guarantees both Israeli and Palestinian statehood and security in the region.
Madam President, I think of partnership as a strong mutual bond, one in which the key elements are mutual trust and close cooperation based on common values and objectives.
Regrettably, it is precisely these elements that have been absent from the transatlantic partnership over the past few months.
The most painful manifestation of transatlantic, and at the same time European, discord was the public controversy over Iraq.
Let us in Europe be realistic and, above all, be reliable friends and real allies to the Americans.
Madam President, almost a hundred years of history shows us Europeans that whenever our continent has been in trouble the United States of America has always come to our rescue.
When we say today that relations between the United States and Europe have reached a crisis it is more about a crisis in Europe's internal relations and a crisis in relations between certain individual countries and the United States.
The way certain countries go in for unilateralism in EU internal affairs shows we are still light years away from a common foreign and security policy in crisis situations.
Most of the 25 European countries supported the approval of the UN Security Council regarding starting a war with Iraq.
All this notwithstanding, the basic values we tend to share and considerations of security common to us both, where Europe is becoming more and more the recipient than the provider, are a firm basis for looking to the future and supporting the transatlantic partnership and genuinely constructing the kind of action programme that my colleague, James Elles, just mentioned.
We in Europe can no longer catch up with the United States in the area of defence technology; and perhaps we do not need to.
Only in this way will we be a worthy partner in matters that unite us and in those we disagree with the United States over, a partner that is sufficiently strong for our views to be heeded in the United States, whose largest trading partner we are, as we heard concerning US investment in Europe.
Madam President, I think that everyone will agree that there is a need for a serious debate within the European Union, but also between the European Union and the United States, about the role of the security policy in transatlantic relations.
If we in the European Union want to leave our own mark on this discussion, we will once again need to define together what is essential to us.
The European Union itself must be able, and have the courage, to take more responsibility.
We must learn to make more efficient use of our defence capabilities, but not avoid a possible discussion about higher defence outgoings.
Lastly, what use will the meeting of the WTO in Cancun be if the European Union does not stand up to the United States' continuing failure to move on certain issues, especially that of allowing poor countries to access generic medicines?
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, this debate must allow us to reflect on our foreign policy relations, and therefore our economic relations too, with NAFTA and, in particular, with the United States and in the context of transatlantic relations.
With regard to the famous CFSP, I hope and believe that the Convention will resolve the political gap, appointing a Minister for External Affairs and avoiding losses of international credibility such as that which we have suffered as a result of the Iraq crisis.
The summit at the end of this month will give us the opportunity - which we should grasp - to begin building that new future.
We cannot allow the past to overshadow the future.
To achieve this we will require radical rethinking of how we have conducted our relations to date within the Commission and Parliament.
I will use the meeting at the end of the month between Congress and the Members of this Parliament to further promote the dialogue and ensure that we can restart it.
It amounts to a free trade zone or in other words a new version of the Transatlantic Market Place.
Decisions would be taken in Washington.
There is a paradox here in that Mr Elles said we need to strengthen the common foreign and defence policy while at the same time suggesting we make certain concessions to the United States.
Madam President, I should like to challenge three assumptions in the questions that have been put to the Council and the Commission.
It is not accurate or helpful, therefore, to describe their difficulties with the USA as a transatlantic rift between the EU and the United States.
We have seen this in the last few days at Evian with the G8 and at the Nato ministerial meeting in Madrid.
The greatest service that could be done to Western security and transatlantic relations would be to draw back ESDP under the Nato umbrella and for us all to work together in solidarity for common ends.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 19 June 2003.
I thanked the chief observer in a press statement I made on 5 May 2003.
The reactions of the government and the national election commission have likewise been disappointing.
Furthermore, it has been proved on other occasions that, despite problems, relatively transparent elections can be held in Africa.
We note that President Obasanjo - who was sworn in on 29 May 2003 - and his party have greatly strengthened their electoral position in the country.
The Election Observation Missions that we support, invariably under the leadership of Members of this House, are one of the most important ways in which we provide practical assistance for the development and strengthening of democracy around the world.
But it is imperative that the integrity of the process and of what we are trying to do is maintained.
The Nigerian elections were a classic example of how important election observation by the EU institutions is and how important it is to have observers out in the polling stations.
The sight of observers not only ensures that misdemeanours are spotted, it also encourages voters that the outside world is taking an interest in making sure that rules are observed and democracy and freedom of choice are being given a chance.
Nigeria is one of the largest and, potentially, richest countries in sub-Saharan Africa.
The chief observer's report should point it in the right direction.
Madam President, I have the honour today of presenting the EU Observation Mission's final report on the elections in Nigeria, which is being handed out as I speak.
It is an effective instrument to promote peace, stability and democracy.
The EU should be proud of this 'soft power'.
The findings of our mission have been widely discussed, both worldwide and within Nigeria.
Ultimately, we established extensive systematic fraud in six federal states during the governor and presidential elections on 19 April and we discovered serious shortcomings in another five federal states.
In connection with this debate, I have received five motions for resolutions submitted in accordance with Article 37.2 of the Rules of Procedure The next item is Question Time (B5-0097/2003).
The following questions are addressed to the Council.
All of this means, from a legal point of view, that the possible violation of freedoms and rights on the part of a State is the competence of the European institutions.
Firstly, because of an apparent lack of respect for the separation of powers, in view of his public statements telling the Spanish Supreme Court that it should agree to the annulment of 240 electoral candidatures which had been legally admitted by the ordinary electoral courts, and secondly for creating a law prohibiting Basque prisoners from studying and taking examinations at the Public University of the Basque Country, the only university that offers education in the Basque language, which may be a violation of the right to linguistic diversity.
I will offer an example which is less dramatic than the one you have chosen to give today; as in football, we have Rules of Procedure; we must obey the Rules of Procedure, because otherwise we are caught off-side.
In her question, the honourable Member touches on certain points on which the Council would comment as follows: In its Athens declaration of 16 April 2003, the European Council reiterated the values on which the European Union is based and confirmed its intention to continue to defend fundamental human rights, both inside and outside the European Union.
The European Council specifically undertook to continue to fight against all types of discrimination, as can be seen from the work which is under way in connection with the fight against racism and xenophobia or even the trade in human organs.
The ratification of the additional protocol to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime signed in Palermo in December 2000 is a matter of national sovereignty for the states which sign it.
The proposal for a Council directive on short-term residents' permits granted to victims of organised illegal immigration or people trafficking who are working with the competent authorities is the focus of the Council's attention.
The examination of the directive has commenced and work will continue in conjunction with the various priorities set by the European Council, and the resources available.
As for the final question, the Council would note that it is not competent to reply on the methods used by the national authorities of the Member States to repatriate persons who have fallen victim to this sort of trafficking.
I am sorry if I made a mistake about the content of the 17 April conference but nonetheless, on many occasions, EU ministers in the Council have called for combating people-smuggling, people-trafficking and criminal gangs.
I would have thought that under Title VI of the EU Treaty - police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters - the Council could at least coordinate and give a fuller answer.
The problem is that these women are both victims and illegal immigrants, but most governments treat them principally as illegal immigrants only.
Despite the fact that there is no new question, I should like to point out that all the efforts being made at Council level and on the part of the European Commission to develop the policy to combat illegal immigration and organised crime either at a general level or in the case of specific countries, I refer to the Balkans and to other countries too, obviously also has as one of its basic reference points the phenomenon raised by the honourable Member.
Consequently, through these policies, the objective is precisely to combat these sorts of phenomena, which the Council also accepts are particularly problematic in Europe today and we must do what we can to combat them.
The Presidency has raised the question of the need to coordinate the Union's policies on illegal immigrants with asylum policy and the need for an integrated policy.
Decisions have been taken one step at a time over recent months, as they were during the previous Presidency.
This is a new policy area for the Union.
Mr President, I would ask you to grant me the minute of patience I require to explain my position in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
It is clear that taking measures to free the political prisoners in Cuba does not fall within the competence of the Council.
That is clear, but this question has been allowed.
I amended the question, in order to remove the value judgments, and once again I am told that it is not admissible, because I asked whether the Council was concerned about the death of protesters, particularly in view of the fact that the US troops are supported by Member States of the European Union.
In any event, I demand a reply, because I am finding it impossible to raise universal problems in this House which affect us directly.
The President of Parliament has taken a decision, you have written to him, you have spoken in plenary about this issue, you have received a reply and you can contact the President of Parliament if you believe it appropriate to do so.
Iraq has been discussed thoroughly in this Chamber, you refer to the issue; it has been discussed without any censorship; there has naturally been complete freedom of expression for all political groups and Members in the presence of the Council and the Commission, and I would ask you not to turn a point of order into a point of disorder.
You have 15 seconds to say your final word.
The Council considers that the network for the epidemiological surveillance and control of communicable diseases in the Community has provided a very effective basis for the rapid exchange of information within the EU and for a coordinated response, in which the acceding countries have fully participated.
The Council recalled that the application of health protection measures falls to the authorities of the Member States, and confirmed the benefits of effective coordination of such measures through the epidemiological surveillance Network Committee.
The Council urges the Member States and the acceding countries to implement effectively the orientations for immediate and future actions by the Network Committee and contribute actively to setting up a specific expert group on SARS under the Network Committee to develop common modalities and advice on health measures across Europe.
The Council reviewed the situation and developments at its meeting on 2 June 2003, took note of the Commission's progress report on recent developments in connection with SARS and exchanged views on the current situation.
All the Member States approved the Commission report and the initiatives taken or planned in this area.
The Presidency emphasised the importance of coordinating the exchange of information at European level, given the cross-border nature of SARS.
Thank you, Mr President.
My question was put before it had even been decided to convene the Council of Ministers for Health in May and I wish to say that the President-in-Office's reply was so full and extensive that it obviates the need to ask a second question.
Question No 3 by Bernd Posselt (H-0300/03): Subject: EU/Ukraine How does the Council view the current state of relations between the EU and Ukraine, and what initiatives has the Presidency undertaken to intensify cooperation with the Black Sea states?
The Union is closely monitoring developments in the Ukraine and recognises Ukraine's achievements over recent years in establishing itself as an independent, democratic European country with a market economy.
The Ukraine is an important strategic partner and will soon become a neighbouring country of the ?U.
The new coalition government and cooperation between the majority and the opposition in the Ukrainian parliament in certain legislative sectors can be seen as positive signs.
The government and the parliament are working together to adapt national legislation to the acquis communautaire.
However, a great deal still needs to be done.
In particular, reforms are needed in the fields of the mass media and the judiciary.
The situation regarding arms exports, including Kolchuga, still needs to be clarified.
Within these frameworks, policies and important structural reforms are still outstanding.
With the 'Wider Europe' initiative, the ?U has made an important step as regards strengthening cooperation with the Ukraine, which is a neighbour following enlargement.
The competent Council services are drafting specific measures in order to implement this initiative.
This regional organisation provides important momentum, thereby contributing to a considerable degree to the implementation of the stability pact for south-eastern Europe.
The Union notes these developments with satisfaction and supports the integration of the participating states in the European economy.
Institution building is indeed a very basic element for progress and reform in these countries.
A programme such as TACIS or any programme can, at most, have an auxiliary role in this direction.
As far as the Caucasus is concerned, the Presidency has noted the particular importance of the countries in the Caucasus and the need for us to develop our cooperation and our relations with these countries.
However, these countries have a great many problems and closer rapprochement with the countries in the Caucasus is a long-term plan, I believe, in the Union's foreign policy.
I wish to ask the Greek Presidency how the Council views the fact that Ukraine is a dangerous country for journalists to operate in.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is your assessment of Ukraine's efforts with regard to the World Trade Organisation?
I cannot proceed to evaluate efforts by the Ukraine in relation to the World Trade Organisation.
Please submit your question to the Commission.
Question No 4 by Ioannis Marinos (H-0309/03): Subject: Problem of funding GALILEO According to a report published in the Financial Times on 28 April 2003, GALILEO - the ambitious European satellite programme - will be delayed further because of a funding dispute.
The Council attaches particular importance to the implementation of the Galileo programme under optimum conditions.
The Council welcomes the agreement which has finally been reached between the Member States of the European Space Agency and which also puts an end to the Agency's difficulties to date as regards the cofinancing of the Galileo programme, thereby making it possible to continue the programme and allay the concerns of the partners that have proceeded to make, and will continue to make, important investments in time, manpower and financial resources for studies, designs and programmes at the pre-development stage.
Similarly, the Council wishes to point out that it is not authorised to intervene in decisions by an intergovernmental agency such as the European Space Agency, even if the large majority of the countries which participate in it (13 out of the 15 members) are also members of the European Union.
I would like to point out at this juncture that although GALILEO is primarily a private-sector project, and one in which we also want to have private-sector services, in a common project for a stronger European Union foreign and security policy we should be setting the course now to ensure that in future infrastructure services and information services will be available and can be purchased at European level.
I agree with Article 1, paragraph 6 of common position 2001/931/CFSP on the application of special measures to combat terrorism.
Similarly, I should like to point out that this evaluation was based on information given to the Member States in accordance with the procedures provided for and that there is a collective decision on this matter.
The Council's response is of some interest in that it is rather hard to understand the criteria the Council uses to judge whether or not an organisation should or should not be deemed a terrorist organisation.
As we are aware, Russia has just requested that three Chechen groups be added to the list of terrorist organisations, although two of these groups are in fact completely non-existent.
Mr President, this second response is wholly unconvincing: we know full well that there are absolutely no clear procedures for inclusion on the list of terrorist organisations.
We are simply asking the Council to give an opinion on this political judgment, this new political development: is it such a major political change as to really justify reviewing the role of the organisation?
As the Council replied to question ?-0243/03 at Question Time during the May part-session of the European Parliament, as soon as the recent wave of arrests came to light, the Presidency, on behalf of the European Union, issued public statements and proceeded with intense demarches towards Havana.
In their bilateral contacts with the Cuban authorities, the Member States also protested strongly about the arrests and executions.
The Council welcomes the resolution by the European Parliament of 10 April reinforcing the Union's clear stand against these measures.
At its meeting on 14 April, the Council approved the following conclusions: 'The Council condemns the recent actions of the Cuban authorities, notably the executions, the large-scale arrests of dissidents, the unfair trials and the arbitrary and excessive sentences imposed.
These latest developments which mark a further deterioration in the Human Rights situation in Cuba will affect the EU's relationship with Cuba and the prospects for increased cooperation.
The Council will keep the situation under close review.' The Union also supported resolutions on the human rights situation in Cuba passed within the framework of the 59th session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
Consequently, the ?U demands that those persons, whom it considers prisoners of conscience, be released without delay and also calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners.
The ?U roundly condemns the recent executions of Cuban citizens carried out following summary trials and expresses its regret that the moratorium on the death penalty in the country has come to an end.
These latest developments, which mark a further deterioration in the human rights situation in the country, will affect the ?U's relationship with Cuba and the prospects for increased cooperation.
The ?U will continue to keep the situation under close review, especially as regards the possible exercise of legal recourse for the 78 persons convicted.
I should also like to point out that the Union is continuing to make efforts to get the political prisoners released immediately and to ensure that, in the meantime, they are not suffering or being treated inhumanely.
As far as Cuba's application to accede to the Cotonou Agreement is concerned, the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Affairs withdrew its application on 17 May.
What the Council is saying extremely clearly in this House is very important, namely that the human rights situation has deteriorated, that the prisoners and the long sentences have affected our future relations with Cuba and that the 78 prisoners must now be given the right to appeal.
As a follow-up question, I wonder, then, if the European Council could take practical action by offering the winner of the Sakharov Prize , the Christian Democratic human rights activist Oswaldo Payá Sardiñas, a formal invitation to Greece and the European Union.
These are important but are not enough and we have a particular responsibility because we awarded the 2002 Sakharov Prize to Osvaldo Payá.
His government is also guilty and should reply with greater respect to the questions I put to him.
Question No 7 by Claude Moraes (H-0321/03): Subject: Thessaloniki June Council meeting Will the Council please give its view of the agenda of the June Council meeting in Thessaloniki?
The General Affairs and External Relations Council noted these intentions on the part of the Presidency.
The first is on the actual application of the guidelines agreed at the European Council in Seville on measures relating to illegal immigration, the more flexible introduction of coordinated and integrated external border management, the incorporation of immigration policy into the Union's relations with third countries and the speeding up of the legislative work to formulate a common policy on asylum and immigration issues.
The second report examines the efficiency of common financing resources available for the repatriation of immigrants and asylum seekers who have been rejected, for the management of external borders, for programmes in the field of asylum and immigration in third countries and for the application of the principle of the distribution of burdens.
Our aim is for the Council to examine these two reports so that the European Council can issue guidelines for further action in these sectors.
Within this framework, it is expected that, in accordance with the conclusions of the spring 2003 Council, the European Council will re-examine the issue of immigration, the integration of legal immigrants into European society and employment.
Finally, the Presidency would remind you that the agenda for the Thessaloniki Council will be approved, in accordance with the Council's rules of procedure, by the General Affairs and External Relations Council at its meeting on 16 and 17 June 2003.
The Greek Presidency has been particularly good, in my view, in taking on positive issues in migration such as family unity and now integration.
I can reply both personally and as the Greek Presidency.
As you know, there are countries which consider that these issues - relating to the integration of immigrants, in other words - are internal issues.
As the author is not present, Question No 8 lapses.
The issue of creating an intergovernmental Agency for Defence Capability Development and Acquisition was the subject of recent discussions within the framework of the European Council, which resulted in the formulation of paragraph 35 of the Presidency conclusions.
I refer to the European Council of 20 and 21 March.
On the basis of these conclusions, the Council addressed this issue, as it did within the framework of the conclusions of the General Affairs and External Relations Council of 19 May, when it reiterated this paragraph and, especially, the need to examine the possible creation within the framework of the Union of an intergovernmental defence capabilities development and acquisition agency.
I should like to remind you that, at the initiative of the Greek Presidency and in a letter which we sent at the end of last year to the President of the Commission, we supported precisely the need for initiatives such as these, which come within the line of thinking of the question formulated by the honourable Member.
Thanks to the President-in-Office for that answer, and indeed for the support of his own government in respect of this point.
Whatever differences exist as regards perspectives about defence cooperation in the European Union, it seems this is something that could unite us.
We need to bear in mind that, at the joint General Affairs Council held by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and the Ministers for Defence, there was an opportunity to examine all these issues and I believe that perhaps the next opportunity will be later rather than sooner, within a period of three, four or five weeks in other words.
Question No 10 by Olivier Dupuis (H-0330/03): Subject: The Iranian regime's nuclear weapons programme On August 2002 the People's Mujahedeen denounced the Iranian regime's secret nuclear weapons programme.
Both state authorities and independent research organisations have confirmed the military purposes of this programme.
This report will contribute to the greater clarification of the situation as regards the existence of a nuclear weapons programme in Iran.
The Council will take account of this report when it discusses issues relating to Iran at its next meeting.
The question, which concerns the opinions expressed on this issue by the Commission, should rightly be submitted directly to that institution.
The Council, especially within the framework of the broad dialogue between the Union and Iran, regularly raises the question of weapons of mass destruction and their non proliferation; the last time was on 29 April.
The Council clearly stated to Iran that it expected that deepening of economic and commercial relations between the Union and Iran should be matched by similar progress in all other aspects of the EU's relations with Iran.
Finally, I would add that the Union attaches great importance to achieving global compliance with the Non-Proliferation Treaty and in the establishment of a verifiable nuclear weapons free zone in the Middle East.
Nonetheless, the Commission, like the Council and the European Parliament, is part of the European Union and moreover it is for the Council to establish the broad guidelines on foreign policy.
I have already stated in my reply - and I wonder why this is being asked a second time - that the Council will take account of the report to be submitted when it discusses issues relating to Iran at its next meeting.
Now, hypothetical questions about what this report will contain and what the Council will do if the report contains A, B or X, I cannot discuss at present.
I said that there will be a report from the most authoritative international organisation.
The Council will take account of this report and will decide what it is going to do on the basis of it.
The Council is well aware of the fact that the restoration of viable political and economic stability in Iraq will depend to a great degree on a constructive stand by neighbouring countries.
Consequently, the European Union is constantly urging neighbouring countries, including Iran, to demonstrate self-control and support efforts to stabilise Iraq.
The Council has identified the peace process in the Middle East as a basic field in which the Council wishes to achieve substantial progress through more intensive dialogue with Iran.
The Council has also made it clear to Iran that it expected that deepening of economic and commercial relations between the EU and Iran should be matched by similar progress in all other aspects of the EU's relations with Iran.
Europe is absent from these talks, and yet you are still advocating the idea of critical dialogue, which means conducting trade without giving much consideration or no genuine consideration to the matter of human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
It is a minor aspect of the more general problem we constantly discuss, by which I mean how the Union can have greater weight in the foreign policy area.
The Union is encouraging Iran to sign, ratify and fully implement the relevant international acts, especially, as I said earlier, the agreements of the International Atomic Energy Agency, because at present the Iranian nuclear programme is causing concern in the international community, to which I also referred.
I should like to point out that the round of negotiations held in Teheran on 1 and 2 June on an EU/Iran trade and cooperation agreement provided an opportunity at just the right time to raise the above issues with this country.
This is the answer we are usually given every time anybody asks a question about relations between the European Union and any of the world's dictatorships.
Your words, President-in-Office, remind me of what was said in this Chamber in December 2000 with regard to the adoption of the joint resolution on Afghanistan.
The Council continues to have serious concerns about violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Iran.
The Council is making an effort to strengthen respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and to promote the rule of law in this country.
The Council has repeatedly made it clear that deepening of commercial relations between the EU and Iran - which are also the aim of the negotiations being held on a trade and cooperation agreement - should be matched by similar progress in all other aspects of the EU's relations with Iran.
Mr President, the issue raised in this question is actually the more general matter of the Council's willingness to make a clear, practical proposal on a transition which it considers to be essential and indispensable in the process of democratisation.
Mr President, I would find the idea of Parliament's passing such a resolution, proposing a change of regime in Iran and a referendum on the introduction of democracy, extremely interesting.
From a political point of view, the Council will bear it in mind before it decides what to do.
Thank you very much, Mr Yiannitsis.
These are the conventional components that are used either wholly or in part.
Finally, the Commission is also asked to draw up a study on the method's effectiveness and on the linking of money from the Structural Funds with the recommendations that have been put to the Member States.
To organise this in a structured manner and to prevent the open method of coordination from being developed in one area or another without Parliament's knowledge, input or codecision, it is necessary to enshrine the general mechanism and Parliament's codecision right in the constitution.
It is in any case more than what was deemed possible at one stage on the basis of the discussions in the Convention.
Parliamentary powers and possibilities for control remain restricted.
If the ministers involved in migration decide to apply the method - also because, for example, they are unable to lay down legislation in this area - the open method of coordination will be applied to migration policy.
I can only say that this is regrettable.
I think that we have drawn up a sound report and I would thank all the members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, for they have made a marvellous contribution to this report.
Education is not only a key to inclusion on the part of our citizens, but also a basic prerequisite for our societies to succeed.
In the opinion of the Committee on Culture, in addition to education and lifelong learning, open coordination is also needed in other areas that come under the job description of the Committee, that is, in policy on youth, the media, culture and sport.
That way we will create the right conditions for social unity, steady development and belief in the future.
It has increased the power of civil servants and pushed aside both the European Parliament and national parliaments in the way it acquires information and exerts influence.
The committee is also stressing that the open coordination method must not be allowed to become like other legislative procedures but at the same time a closed procedure which will undermine the legislative aims laid down in the Treaty establishing the European Community.
In its resolution the committee invites the Council and the Commission to hold talks with the European Parliament in order to establish an interinstitutional agreement on the open coordination method.
The agreement should contain rules on the choice of policy areas to be included in the open coordination method and a process for applying them in a way that is consistent.
The European Parliament must be able to participate in decision-making fully and on equal terms.
In the view of the committee thinks the interinstitutional agreement should contain rules concerning the European Parliament's participation in drawing up aims and indicators.
What is most important, however, is that open coordination should become a Community process.
It is good that two of Parliament's committees are playing an active role in the creation of a parliamentary dimension for open coordination, something we obviously need in Europe.
As far as democratic legalisation of the procedure is concerned, our experience to date is that only in the field of employment is there a legal basis in the Treaty.
The problems of the participation of Parliament, and hence its democratic legalisation, have not only their European but also their national dimension.
I believe, therefore, that with the discussion taking place in the Convention, it is very important for there to be an article covering the open cooperation procedure, determining the role of Parliament and, as the Commission has proposed, for there to be a special reference to the application of this procedure to social protection, where there are various problems, given that many of these competences in the social sector are national.
Finally, I should like to refer to the observation in the report that mainstreaming the gender dimension in all Community policies can also play a very important role in the application of the open coordination procedure, given that this is where individual targets which might concern equality of the two sexes are always identified.
The problem is that we are being treated like NGOs in this area.
And once something like this has got under way, is it very difficult to stop it again.
We should see to it - including by means of today's debate - that this existing intergovernmental method, in other words open coordination, is converted into a Community method.
If heads of governments or individual ministers recognise something to be right and necessary and important, then this too should be converted to the Community method, so that we, as elected representatives of our peoples, can participate.
We have been faced with measures which have already been adopted, on which we were only able to express an opinion after the event, despite the coordination method, which it would be extremely useful actually to apply to Parliament too.
With this question, we are asking the Commission, firstly, whether it can provide any guarantee that the measures the Council adopts in future using the coordination method will be notified to Parliament and the Parliamentary committees in good time for them to be able to examine them and express opinions, and secondly, to specify - despite the fact that, in this situation, everything seems to depend on the Convention now - whether it has any proposals to make regarding the wider application of the open coordination method with a view to avoiding Parliament being excluded.
If we want to compare the facts in a number of areas of policy, the facts will need to be comparable.
I am, however, also a little concerned that it is often regarded as a sort of soft legislation and poor man's alternative to ordinary legislation, or as something that should only be used in emergencies.
I think that legislation must be applied when there are no other options and when authority, strength and discipline are genuinely needed.
I therefore find it pathetic to hear representatives of the right-of-centre parties say that they do not want this flexible and efficient market tool but, instead, an old-fashioned bureaucratic, controlling and law-governed form of government in the public sector.
It is about the fact that the open coordination method is also a cooperation, and not only a coordination, method.
In common with other free social relations, it must be based upon trust and respect.
I believe that we must move towards this open, democratic and modern cooperation method.
One British minister admitted that the trade unions and the Confederation of British Industry in the UK had more influence on the national action plans on employment than the British Parliament, which had never ever discussed them - although that situation is now changing, since the new Committee on Works and Pensions came into being - what an exciting name that is.
We certainly need a framework for the open method of coordination which is clear, is democratically controlled by this Parliament, national parliaments and sub-national parliaments - which in some Member States are those with responsibility for particular issues.
The Constitution is probably the best place for this information in terms of public access and awareness.
Our group is not convinced that an interinstitutional agreement is sufficiently known to and understood by the public.
There are issues about the timescales of consultation which our Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has certainly suffered from.
Therefore, we need to build into this method time for real consultation, not just here in Parliament but also for NGOs to exercise their own internal democracy in making their contributions as well.
Picking up from what some of the other Members have said, each of us recognises the benefits of the open method of coordination.
If we consider the question of the guidelines which we discussed this week, we see the difficulties and problems that were created, simply because we were not given the information in time.
But for us to agree to that, and for our representatives in the Convention to go along that line would require some faith from our point of view that we would be given more powers and consulted on a wider basis by the Commission and the Council when they look at these issues in the future.
It is essential that national parliaments be part of this method and, indeed, if we look at the draft Constitution which we have before us, there is a requirement with regard to legislation being transmitted to national parliaments.
Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur warmly for the report.
Secondly, it is also important because she offers solutions.
The good thing about the open coordination process as we know it now is that the facts and figures will now at least be on the table.
Those figures are important.
Numerus clausi will then be agreed upon as if Germany were one country.
It is, therefore, understandable that German MEPs, in particular, have problems and are concerned that this method, via the backdoor, would lead to a horrible kind of harmonisation which involves neither this Parliament nor the citizens.
The open coordination method has become the general rule on the basis of our experience of the Luxembourg process and of the possibilities opened up by Articles 126 and 128 of the Treaty; it is a timely process, because this generalisation has also allowed many issues to be raised in Parliament - in relation to insufficiencies and gaps which have repeatedly been condemned and which should be resolved - and because the Convention is about to produce a constitutional Treaty, offering Parliament a great opportunity to make its voice heard.
We do not yet have a tradition of this in the way the Scandinavian countries do, for example.
In the field of culture, media, sport, education and youth, it would also be a possible step towards a kind of European cultural policy, but please do not misunderstand: I am in no way referring to harmonisation of national cultural policy, but rather to effective coordination of common policies in order to achieve common goals together.
Because, as we all know, we are simply not strong enough on our own - particularly in these sensitive areas.
It is certainly possible and sensible to strengthen cooperation among the Member States in policy areas where the European Union has only limited power.
Madam President, the specific fundamental assumption of the oral question tabled by Mr Rocard is whether the open method of coordination should be applied to all fields of activity covered by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport and not only to those fields that are directly linked to the Lisbon strategy, that is, education and lifelong learning.
This is the only way in which Parliament will be able to deliver an opinion, on a solid basis and on time, thereby usefully contributing to finding better solutions, with greater democratic legitimacy, before the Council considers any relevant initiative, to ensure that national and regional policies can also implement European policy guidelines.
We therefore need an interinstitutional agreement that provides for Parliamentary intervention in order to ensure that not only rules but also policies are established coherently, based on objectives and having indicators, entailing access to documentation and participation in steering meetings and in meetings for studying the progress made, providing information on the reports and best practices, in a process that develops the open method of coordination as the Community method.
Parliament should, therefore, be able to act in a timely and relevant manner before the Council takes its decisions.
The Commission should formulate proposals to ensure that Parliament is fully involved in the method adopted in Lisbon.
Madam President, Commissioner, I welcome this discussion enormously.
Mrs Pack pointed out that the Committee on Culture has been waiting for months for our questions - just the questions - relating to applying coordination in the field of culture, education, youth, the media and sport to be dealt with here at all.
The debate this evening is an opportunity to lay the issues on the table, and I hope that we will also come to some conclusions.
The method of open coordination can certainly make an important contribution to helping us meet the public's expectations, and to improve coordination in important areas of policy where we do not want harmonisation.
The objective of the so-called open method of coordination is to have a legislative effect in various areas of policy, and there is no proper legal basis for this in the EU Treaty.
I also know, however, that coordination in various areas is already possible, definitely necessary and perfectly sensible.
We can always learn from others.
Furthermore, I could not celebrate the involvement of Parliament in this method as a great achievement, because it would not actually change anything about it.
Thank you, Mrs Stauner.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs welcomes the setting up of a working group of independent experts to present proposals to overcome the various problems relating to employee participation.
A detail: my report proposes that, in the case of share options, tax should only be payable when the shares acquired by way of option conversion are successfully sold.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs recommends that more consideration should be given to the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises, and that participatory schemes which are also feasible for small and medium enterprises should be promoted at national level.
The broad spread of ownership also increases willingness to invest, because fairer distribution of wealth stabilises the structure of society.
I agree with the opinion expressed in the report that the Commission can encourage the older as well as the new Member States which do not have this legislative framework, so that they proceed to a fiscal framework and to an employee financial participation framework, based mainly, as I said, on the results which we have from countries in which it is applied.
I would highlight the need, to which Mr Menrad also refers, for national practices and national legislation to follow a series of principles, the most important of which is the need to minimise the financial risks to employees.
The report concludes with specific proposals calling on the Commission to conduct a comparative performance analysis between countries and models, to undertake studies on the forms of participation which are most suitable for small and medium-sized enterprises, where the problems are different, and to proceed to draft a paper on trade union and management aspects, attaching, of course, special importance to the issue of gender equality.
I should like to assure you with regard to all the foregoing that the Commission will promote all these proposals to the greatest possible extent and to say that, as we speak, the Commission is already drafting a study on precisely this subject, in cooperation with the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, relating to small and medium-sized enterprises, together with a framework of comparative evaluation indicators.
Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for insisting on having a debate on this issue because it is indeed a very important subject.
May I also thank the Secretariat for scheduling this debate, yet again, at such a late hour, even though it means that some of us who started in this House at breakfast time have already been here for over 13 hours.
Having said that, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the spirit in which he has approached this complicated subject and the way in which he has embraced amendments from all sides, certainly including some of my own.
But, as he knows, there was a compromise with the PSE Group that stated 'as yet neither necessary nor desirable and practicable to harmonise fully'.
That was perhaps a mistake, because there is no need whatsoever to harmonise policies in this respect.
Employee participation in the ownership of productive wealth was actually a far more topical issue fifty years ago than it is today.
The case of Enron and others like it show how crucial it is to study the consequences of applying existing systems, to look more closely at the various alternatives for participation, whether they are associated with pension plans or linked to participation in capital, profits or share options.
The option of signing up to participation schemes must clearly always be voluntary and never lead to discrimination between employees or call into question other forms of participation in company life, particularly in the field of union activity.
Madam President, I believe that the promotion of employee financial participation is very important both for company employees and for the development of companies.
Perhaps greater participation and, thus, also a greater acceptance of responsibility can even help make companies more successful and profitable and so contribute to increased employment and increased access to capital.
Some people even maintain that the development of various types of financial participation systems could be a possible way of achieving increased growth and faster compliance with the Lisbon strategy objectives.
To that extent, we are in agreement, Mr Menrad.
The rapporteur has himself written in the report that it is unnecessary to harmonise the provisions for financial participation systems and that it is neither desirable nor practicable to do so, either, because it would impede the flexibility of Member States' policies.
The coordination of models and conditions would benefit neither companies nor employees.
Thank you, Mr Ettl.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I would like to give you a brief outline of the different contextual elements of this own-initiative report, as I set out to do.
I have tried to explain this idea in recital M of my report in particular.
In my opinion, these are the three contextual elements which form the basis of the report.
I would remind you that a report on women and sport was presented to Parliament thirteen years ago.
There are three main contexts in which equality of opportunity and self-fulfilment are an issue, namely sport in schools, sport as a leisure activity and top-level sport.
All three areas must be taken into account in the development of sport.
All the professionals have told me that school plays a key role in women's access to sport.
As for top-level sport, we first need to understand the issues involved.
Furthermore, we must not overlook the specific health problems encountered by some top sportswomen.
All the professionals have stressed these health problems to me.
I would also like to thank the Greek Presidency for organising a meeting on women and sport, held in Thessaloniki on 8 March, which I attended.
Thanks are also due to the Presidency for including my proposal to create a 'Women and Sport' unit in its declaration at the end of this meeting.
Of course, we cannot sit by and do nothing while we wait for a new article in the Treaty.
We might refer to the ?QUAL programme or we might refer to the research programmes, for which no such proposals have yet been formulated, or even to the DAPHNE programme, if we think about the dimension of sexual harassment in sport, which is not at all negligible.
It is clear that the European Commission is obliged in any proposals it makes to respect the legislative action of the Member States, on the one hand, and to take account of the autonomy of sports associations, on the other.
However, one sure way of increasing the interest of the Member States and the sports associations is to promote sport for women as a means against discrimination.
Women's participation in sport has steadily increased since then, even though it could and should develop more quickly today.
This report focuses on women's participation in the three core areas of sport: sport in schools, sports for leisure, and competitive sport, although there are no proposals to create sporting opportunities exclusively for women in any of these areas.
Equality in sport is, in my view, the most important aspect of this report.
The goal of equal opportunities for school, amateur and professional sport is above all a way of improving women's integration at all these levels.
On the contrary, women are in a far more difficult position in top-level sport, especially as regards the health of women athletes.
The Community must take action here, and it must do so in cooperation with the various organisations involved in competitive sport.
There is also no budget line which could fund such a unit, and that is why I will reject Article 5 in tomorrow's vote.
In my view, establishing such an obligation would result in over-regulation, which is not something that we as a group want to see.
That is why we will not vote in favour of Article 32 tomorrow.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we have a long way to go towards reaching a situation in which women regularly undertake a physical activity.
Sport in schools involves more than just learning sports.
As for sport as a leisure activity, it is clear that for many women, sport is an optional extra, that can only be considered after work, children, housework and family leisure activities.
Sports authorities and top sportspeople must therefore respect the current rules on the free movement of people and the provision of services.
Women are in a minority in top-level sport and they are role models for young people.
Being involved in sport at the highest level entails many significant physical changes that have an impact on the health and future life of participants.
It is important to undertake specific studies on the effects of top-level sport on the health of women.
Lastly, it is important that women are represented in all sports regardless of the level or reason for pursuing a particular sport.
Madam President, it was the struggle pursued by some women and the pressure they exerted that forced the International Olympic Committee in 1928 finally to allow women to take part in the Olympic Games as athletes but still only in a few events.
Hence also the importance of using the various legal and financial instruments to promote and support women's sport.
I feel I am still a little like an observer.
Women's sport is associated with a problem that is also familiar in the political and economic sphere: participation in decision-making.
This is an aspect that we wish to highlight more emphatically in the report.
Exercise and sport promote vitality, in both individual and team events.
Another important point to take into consideration, I think, is that ageing women and men should also be given the very same opportunities to take exercise and practise sport as the young and agile.
Similarly, the beneficial effect of sport and its ability to rehabilitate cannot be stressed too much at this point.
Despite everything, we are very pleased with the report and we are only asking for a few separate votes on some points.
I hope special attention will be given to the fact that sport as a subject for study in school should not be judged using the same indicators as for intellectual disciplines such as foreign languages and mathematics.
I would also hope the reference to sport as an individual's fundamental right will be omitted from the report.
I am of the opinion that sport is the right of all people, but I believe the concept 'fundamental right' would suffer inflation in this context.
The report should also leave out the list naming those countries that did not send mixed teams to the last Olympic Games, although it is important to appeal to all countries to send mixed teams.
If this report gets through the parliamentary debate in tomorrow's vote, as I hope it does, I will nevertheless be a little sceptical about what the Commission and the Member States will do about this matter.
And if we bear in mind that there are continents for which participation is extremely low, I believe that we have truly made great progress.
However, as a person who has dedicated 20 years of their life to sport, first as an amateur and then as a professional, I believe there are two fronts on which we still have an awful lot to do and a very long way to travel.
In Spain we have sports newspapers, which only cover sports, and they are some of the most widely read newspapers in our country - even more than the national newspapers - and they hardly dedicate 4% of their content to women's sport, and what is more, the content relating to women's sport often consists of news of a sentimental nature or on the postures or clothing of our sportswomen.
It is therefore a problem which affects the whole of the European Union.
Ladies and gentlemen, at the closing of the First Conference on Women and Sport, in October 1996 in Lausanne, Juan Antonio Samaranch stated that the twenty-first century should be the new era for women's participation in the world of sport.
Amongst all of us, men and women, we must do everything we can to make this statement by Juan Antonio Samaranch a reality.
Mechanisms need to be created which ensure that young women will have a say in the development of policies and programmes which concern them.
Let the Olympic Games become a real celebration of humanity which will promote the values to which women attach particular importance, the values of peace, democracy, equality, respect for differences, dialogue between cultures, the creative coexistence of people and the resolution of differences by peaceful means.
Madam President, the European Parliament and the Council have designated 2004 as the European Year of Education through Sport.
This makes it all the more incomprehensible when women are denied access to sport for social or cultural reasons.
This is unacceptable, for sport does not only have an educational and social value, it is also important for health, and we should not deprive our children and young people of this.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when the Swedish golf star, Annika Sörenstam, wanted to compete with the men in the American professional tournament, the male golf world got the jitters.
The reaction encountered by Annika Sörenstam when she wanted to measure her ability against the men is symptomatic of many men's attitudes to women and sport.
Moreover, it is often men who call the shots in sport.
I am president of a sports association: the Järnvägen Handball Club in Hallsberg.
It is a club with a fair degree of equality in terms of its membership, with approximately as many girls and women as boys and men.
All other sports associations must also make an effort and single-mindedly work for an environment of equality in sport.
Sport is significant in many ways.
The European Parliament cannot remove all the causes of the lack of equality in sport, any more than we can remove such causes in other areas of society.
We can, however, be clear about what we want, and we can encourage ourselves, the Member States, sports associations, the media and those who participate in sport always to think in terms of equality and equal conditions for women and men.
Thank you, Mr Karlsson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.15 p.m.) . (SV) For many years, I have worked assiduously in Parliament for a Statute for Members and genuinely want it to be possible for such a Statute to enter into force before the next term of office.
As the Commission observed in its opinion, the provisions concerning Members' immunity exceed what it is possible to approve in this context.
It would be tragic if the Statute were only to enter into force once a new constitutional treaty had entered into force - probably not until 2009 as far as Parliament is concerned.
At the same time, an option was approved whereby new Member States might subsequently, during two terms of office, apply other rules.
This matter is of the utmost interest not just for a Member State such as Portugal (which has an immensely long coastline and includes extremely vulnerable island territories, including the archipelagos of Madeira and the Azores), but for the whole of the European Union as well.
