Council Question Time The next item is Question Time (B6-0445/2006).
The main proposal by the Commission for improving the decision-making process relates to the use of the passerelle clause under Article 42 of the Treaty on European Union.
The proposal was discussed at the informal meeting of Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs this September, although it did not obtain the unanimous support it needed under Article 42 of the Treaty on European Union.
President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is the Presidency's aim specifically to strengthen the Union's consistent and comprehensive immigration policy, which covers both legal and illegal immigration.
Apart from proposing Council draft conclusions on decent work, the Council, during the Finnish presidential term, has spent a good deal of time and done a lot of work on the proposal for a European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, something that has been examined by the European Parliament.
At the sixth ASEM Summit in Helsinki on 10 and 11 September, the Heads of State or Government acknowledged the need to strengthen the social dimension of globalisation and emphasised that productive employment, decent work, the rights of all employees, social welfare and dialogue in the labour market are decisively important for sustainable socio-economic development. 'Decent work for all' was also the main theme of the high-level segment of the meeting of the UN's Economic and Social Council on 3-5 July 2006.
The Commission is, moreover, organising a conference on decent work in Brussels on 4-5 December.
Subject: EU-India Free Trade Agreement On 28 September 2006, the European Parliament's resolution on EU-India Trade and Economic Relations (P6_TA(2006)0388) received 'overwhelming support' from across the political spectrum of the House.
The Seventh EU-India Summit in Helsinki on 13 October examined trade and economic relations between the parties.
The Group was set up at the 2005 summit to look into how bilateral trade and investment relations could be developed and expanded.
According to an article in the Italian newspaper l'Unità, on 7 December 2005 Condoleezza Rice had frank discussions with EU ministers at a dinner at which the issue of extraordinary renditions was discussed.
I should like to know whether this dinner took place.
You refer to the dinner on 7 December of last year as concerning bilateral relations between Member States and the US.
I answered the first question and the question submitted in writing on behalf of the Council as a whole and with regard to what was discussed and debated at the meeting of the General Affairs and External Relations Council of 15 September 2006 and the matters on which consensus was reached.
I still repeat that the Council is not responsible for how Member States handle their bilateral relations with different countries, and that it is not aware of everything that goes on.
Subject: The Armenian genocide The President of France, Jacques Chirac, said in a speech in Armenia on 30 September that Turkey must acknowledge the genocide against the Armenians in order to become a Member of the EU.
On 3 October, the EU Commissioner for Enlargement, Olli Rehn, adopted the opposite position, stating that there was no need for Turkey to acknowledge the genocide in order to join the EU.
The last time that the Commission made an evaluation of the extent to which conditions for membership were being met was in its report out on 8 November.
Subject: Homophobia in Poland I would like raise your awareness of an unfortunate setback in the implementation of basic human rights in Poland.
When Austria's new government was elected, certain Member States pushed through sanctions against Austria in the light of its government programme.
As the author is not present, Question No 8 lapses.
The EU welcomes the active participation of NGOs in the debate both on particular subjects and on national situations.
The EU is in favour of an approach based on consensus whenever possible, and worked very hard for this at the second session of the Human Rights Council.
Action on the part of the Council is also needed in other urgent situations, such as that in Sri Lanka.
deputising for the author. - (ES) Thank you very much for your reply, Madam President-in-Office of the Council.
My question is as follows: what issues were initiated by the European Union to be discussed in the Human Rights Council during the Presidency of Finland?
The Human Rights Council has already debated some issues that were EU initiatives, but all the initiatives that featured at the second session were postponed until the start of the session in November-December, and preparations for that are now under way.
An opportunity for this last presented itself at the EU-Israel Association Agreement meeting held on 13 June 2006.
A meeting of the Working Party on Human Rights on 7 June 2006 was an opportunity for a more in-depth debate on the EU's particular worries about Israel.
As the author is not present, Question No 11 lapses.
Subject: EU-Balkan relations Can the European Council state what tangible measures have been made this year in terms of building closer economic and political relations between the European Union and the Balkan States?
One of the major challenges this term has been how to ensure support for the current talks on the status of Kosovo, headed by UN Special Envoy Martti Ahtisaari.
Since the referendum in Montenegro and the Republic of Montenegro's declaration of independence, the European Union and its Member States have agreed to develop relations with Montenegro as a sovereign, independent country and have urged both Serbia and Montenegro to continue with their frank and constructive dialogue on future relations.
In accordance with the commitments made at the Thessaloniki Summit in 2003 and the Salzburg meeting in 2006, the Council has endeavoured to make closer ties to the EU more tangible, by, for example, increasing contact between people by means of agreements that facilitate the issue of visas concluded with all the countries in the Western Balkans.
Negotiations with all the Western Balkan countries are to start on 30 November in Brussels.
The Council welcomed the initialling of the Central European Free Trade Agreement on 9 November in all the countries in the Balkan region, excluding Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia.
This commitment is clearly reflected in the legislative measures and other measures which have recently been adopted or which are to be adopted in the Council's conclusions on energy efficiency and energy saving and in the conclusions by the Presidency adopted at the March and June 2006 European Council meetings.
As you will certainly know, the Council for its own part has already approved the results of the tripartite negotiations held on 26 October, meaning that efforts to reach agreement on the Seventh Framework Programme will be made at second reading.
President Barroso said here today in Parliament that climate change and energy are some of the main challenges facing the European Union over the next ten years.
The International Energy Agency has predicted that world energy consumption in the last 30 years would have grown by around a third if measures had not been taken to increase energy efficiency.
I can nevertheless say that Mozambique is one of the largest EU development cooperation recipient countries among the ACP countries, and its share of EDF funding is also one of the biggest in Africa.
According to the information that we have received, appropriations for Mozambique this year will be approximately EUR 165 million.
President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Mr President, Mozambique's significant position as a recipient of development cooperation is obviously a clear reflection of the peaceful development that has taken place there and the successful transition which the country has gone through in the last 15 years since the conflict.
I might say, however, that, to the best of my belief, several Member States also support work of this nature within the context of their national development cooperation programme, and, as the honourable Member referred to the example of Ireland, as minister responsible for development cooperation in Finland, I might add that Mozambique also plays an important role in Finland's programme of bilateral development cooperation.
Question No 15 has been withdrawn.
This issue was discussed at the meeting of the Environment Council on 23 October under 'any other business'.
The Commission has pledged to protect whales, as endorsed in the Habitats Directive.
