I just want to say a word to those Members who implied that my actions were somehow irresponsible or inappropriate.
Firstly, nuclear weapons are not only immoral and inhumane, they are also illegal.
The International Court of Justice in The Hague ruled that the possession of nuclear weapons is contrary to international law, and this was reaffirmed by a Scottish court in 1999.
Finally, it is the right and duty of every citizen, elected or not, to use all peaceful avenues to try to uphold international law.
Profound opposition to nuclear weapons on both legal and moral grounds is a common position among responsible leaders of opinion, both religious and non-religious, throughout Scotland and throughout this great Union.
I am sure that our Delegation for Relations with the Countries of Central America and Mexico will set all the machinery in motion to urge the Community authorities, starting with the Commission, to renew their efforts of solidarity with this country.
So in this sense, we are demanding that Turkey meet the same conditions as all the other candidates.
There are at least three significant trends in Turkey: those who are pro-Europe because they support democracy, transparency and respect for human and minority rights; those who are pro-Europe but have substantial doubts about adopting European values and fundamental rights; and those who are fundamentally opposed to Europe, largely because they are sceptical about the adoption of the basic rights and values to which we in Europe are committed.
Certainly, I believe that we - this Parliament - should send out a clear signal that the forces in Turkey which want to follow the path towards Europe and full democracy have our support.
We have stated quite clearly that the use of the Kurdish language - also in the media - and the fostering of, and the opportunity to express, Kurdish identity are key factors in changing the political conditions in Turkey as well.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy has taken account of all the amendments proposed by the Committee on Budgets.
I am referring to Amendment No 1, which states that Turkey should be included in the ISPA and SAPARD financial instruments in order to ensure that all candidate countries are treated equally.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Turkey has been offered a partnership agreement and, from a procedural point of view, it is right that we should now give this partnership agreement a legal basis, even though Turkey has not yet presented a national programme which will allow us to judge just how far it is prepared to assimilate the various points of the partnership agreement.
It is a large country and it is very different from the other candidate countries.
Leyla Zana, the European Parliament Sakharov prizewinner, is still in jail.
The state of emergency persists in south-eastern Turkey and cadres of the legal Kurdish party HADEP have disappeared in the region and been declared missing.
We are also sitting exams in our ability to persuade Turkey of the value of peaceful relations between former enemies.
My group supports the regulation, not only because of its technical and financial value to Turkey, but also for the political message it sends.
It is certain that the quality and pace of reform in Turkey will be driven by the developing relationship with the European Union.
We need this national plan to ensure that the momentum that supports European integration in Turkey does not diminish.
We in the Liberal Group will assess this national programme for reform critically but fairly.
Mr President, the Council' s proposed regulation is a logical successor to the Helsinki decisions.
What is currently more interesting to my mind, is the question as to whether Turkey and the European Union have drawn closer together since the Helsinki decisions.
It is the European Union' s responsibility to ask this question and have a crack at it.
However, it is up to Turkey - and that, I think, is what needs to emerge from this debate - to see whether these overtures towards the European Union are sincerely meant, because my group' s motto still holds good: no radical reforms without the prospect of membership, but without radical reforms, no prospect of membership.
Mr President, Mr Swoboda's proposals for the Council regulation are appropriate, in my view.
Alongside the necessary and very candid criticism of the situation in Turkey, should we not be examining our own policies very critically as well?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our position on Turkey' s accession to the European Union is well known.
We clearly expressed this position in Parliament' s part-session last November during the debate on the report on the progress of Turkey' s preparations for accession.
We have nothing against the great Turkish nation or against its close relationship with the European Union.
Let us see what the Commission' s latest report on the Turkish situation has to say.
It does indeed acknowledge considerable progress in the field of macro-economic stability and in improving the most striking imbalances in Turkey' s economy.
Turkey' s economic importance for the European Union today is considerable.
Mr President, the proposal for a Council regulation that we are going to vote on tomorrow creates a legal framework which will enable Turkey to benefit from a pre-accession strategy, just like the other candidate countries.
After all, the political and cultural divide between the two parties is far too wide.
Consider for example the current diplomatic clash between Paris and Ankara over the historical interpretation of the dreadful fate of the Armenian minority within the Osman Empire in 1915.
Secondly, Article 4 of the Commission proposal.
Mr President, Ankara has still not set a course for Europe by implementing an unequivocal policy of reform.
Mr President, in principle, we welcome any attempt to improve conditions in Turkey and bring the country closer to the European Union.
Financial support for Turkey to boost those forces which want to move closer to Europe and achieve further improvements in democratic conditions must take place in tandem with observation of the human rights situation, however, and must not reduce the financial resources earmarked for other countries.
The objective debate about Turkey, the speeches, the regulation, or at least the Commission's proposed regulation, and the rapporteur's report have in fact shown that the European Parliament is very keen to help Turkey and make it clear that there is absolutely no desire for hostility; instead, together with the people of Turkey, we want to welcome Turkey as a democratic country in the European Union one day, and are developing sensible proposals to this end.
On 25 January, they were summoned by the gendarmerie to the gendarmerie station in Silopi and have not been seen since." I think this is our problem.
This is another small but still very important step on the long road leading to Turkey' s accession to the European Union.
The political reforms and human rights are of course the first areas to spring to mind, but there are also problems with the economic reforms and Turkey must also satisfy requirements pertaining to environmental legislation.
The Swoboda report is a technical-financial report that follows logically from the Helsinki conclusions.
The ELDR Group wholeheartedly supports this fundamental message.
Mr President, we oppose Turkey's accession to the European Union because we are certain that the people of Turkey have nothing to gain.
On the contrary, even those in Turkey who believed that its accession would help democratise the country have come to realise, since Turkey was granted candidate status of the European Union, that the opposite is true.
And, if you believed your own declarations on democracy and human rights, declarations which come thick and fast, you would not spend a single euro of the European Union taxpayers' money supporting a military regime which crassly tramples all over human rights.
Mr President, on 8 November the Commission adopted the reports for the year 2000 on the progress made towards accession by each of the 15 countries.
Despite that, a fortnight afterwards, Turkey attended for the first time the fourth conference on the European Union social funds.
This report has been presented in Brussels and shows the desperate situation of hundreds of prisoners in Turkish prisons, in particular those of Kurdish origin.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Turkey is the key country above all others in creating good relations between the Christian and the Muslim worlds.
At the same time, modern Turkey is also the second land of the Bible, where Saint Paul built up his first Christian congregations.
My first question to the Commissioner and the Council is therefore: in which way are you prepared to help promote religious dialogue between Christians and Muslims?
My second question is: what concrete measures are being taken to strengthen religious freedom in Turkey, the whole of the Middle East and North Africa?
I would like to discuss a practical case in Turkey.
On 22 February the trial of the Syrian Christian priest Yusuf Akbulut will continue from December last year before the State Security Court in Diyarbakir.
Yusuf Akbulut is on trial for having been quoted in the newspaper Huriyet on 3 October 2000 as having welcomed the US Congress recognition of the genocide perpetrated against Armenians in 1915-1918.
The trial raises a number of issues ranging from the absurd matter of having such a vague and, with regard to freedom of speech and opinion, unclear paragraph such as Section 312 in the penal code, to the evidence and the background to the case.
My third, and final, question to the Commissioner and to the Swedish Presidency is this: are you prepared to carefully monitor the case of Yusuf Akbulut?
For example, we know of the letter by Pierre Sané, the secretary of Amnesty International, to the Commission and Council at the end of last year, and also the threats in the last few days to Akin Birdal and the Turkish Human Rights Association, the persistent declarations by the Turkish authorities on the situation of the Kurdish people and the Cyprus conflict, and many other matters.
In adopting the Swoboda report we will for the nth time be sending a positive message to Turkey: look, we in the European Union want our relations to get better and better and for you to be part of our great family, but for this to happen it is essential that you comply with democratic principles.
The message is a positive response but with this reasoning, with these conditions, with this hope that demonstrable steps will effectively be taken in the immediate future.
Turkey was accepted as a candidate country at the Helsinki Summit.
The EU Financial Perspective includes a Heading 7 covering pre-accession aid.
In the EU budget, however, pre-accession aid to Turkey, as with Cyprus and Malta also, has been placed under Heading 4, "External Action" .
These countries are therefore actually accorded a different status from the other candidate countries.
However, Heading 4, "External Action" has become over-burdened.
Budgeting for pre-accession aid for Turkey, Cyprus and Malta in Heading 4 has increased the over-burdening further and jeopardised the ready availability of these funds.
For that reason I support the proposals in the report to switch these funds to Heading 7.
Mr President, in my opinion, Turkey has a place in Europe, for both geographical and historical reasons, and no one can stop it from taking its rightful place, along with its culture, history and religion.
The second reason is because we should not discriminate.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I am sure that everyone here in this Chamber wants a modern, progressive Turkey.
In all events, even if you overlook Turkey's disdain, so far at least, for its obligations under the partnership agreement, you will be brought up short by Amendment No 1 proposing that Turkey participate in the ISPA and SAPARD programmes.
The first reason is that the budget for these programmes has already been decided.
It was decided and agreed in Berlin - Mr Verheugen was personally involved in this agreement as Germany's Minister of European Affairs and knows all about it - and cannot be increased.
The second reason, and this is very important, is that, when it adopted the ISPA and SAPARD programmes, the European Parliament voted against amendments seeking to fund pre-accession tools, Cyprus and Malta from these programmes, on the grounds that Cyprus and Malta were being funded under the ÌÅDA programme.
But that does not prevent me from disagreeing with this specific amendment for the reasons stated, reasons which are of a technical and a political nature.
Mr President, the proposal for a Council regulation on assistance to Turkey under the pre-accession strategy and the report by Mr Swoboda mark yet another significant step towards achieving a great historical objective.
As a matter of fact, Turkey' s economic involvement with the European Union is already high, since more than half of Turkey' s imports come from the Union and more than half of its exports are destined for the European Union.
This proposal for a regulation will now enable us to create the necessary legal basis to establish an Accession Partnership, in order to help Turkey fulfil the Copenhagen criteria.
It will do so not only by intensifying the Customs Union, but also by promoting economic and social development, which are essential aspects of an effective partnership.
Nevertheless, within the development strategy that we are advocating, the path towards economic and social development must go hand in hand with political development, in other words, the exercise of democracy and human rights.
We also feel that by playing a more effective role in this process, the European Parliament can make a contribution and provide certain guarantees.
A dream of democratic European cooperation in which Turkey too participates on an equal footing, for Turkey is a part of Europe and has a lot to contribute to European cooperation.
I should also like to ask for efforts to be made to help the population to resume their normal lives in these villages.
Mr President, now that the Helsinki European Council has confirmed Turkey's status as a candidate for accession which must fulfil the same criteria as the other candidate countries, it is logical that Turkey should also benefit from a pre-accession strategy and an Accession Partnership.
The Swoboda report is one outcome of the Helsinki decision and is therefore important.
In one respect, the Swoboda report goes far beyond the Commission's proposal in that it calls for Turkey to be included in the ISPA and SAPARD financial instruments.
The purpose of the pre-accession strategy and Accession Partnership must be to achieve convergence between Turkey's political, economic and social conditions and the EU.
We had concerns about Turkey's candidate status, but now it is here, and Turkey therefore also has the right to be included in the financial instruments.
I welcome the fact that this regulation has now established clarity, especially as the European Union has actually done very little to fulfil its financial commitments towards Turkey since the conclusion of the Customs Union Treaty five years ago.
But one thing must be clear: Turkey's accession to the European Union can only take place under the conditions set by Europe, not simply on Turkey's terms.
I am sure everyone in this House will agree with me when I say the long-term stability of a state can only be guaranteed if this state is founded on the values we all share, such as democracy, the rule of law, and the protection of minorities.
In Helsinki we said, yes, we should give it a go.
This document will be the most important document in the history of Euro-Turkish relations over the past few decades.
Turkey is of particular strategic importance.
Firstly, all those who say that it would be logical to channel pre-accession aid for Turkey, Malta and Cyprus through the relevant Heading 7 of the Financial Perspective are quite right, as we are clearly dealing with pre-accession aid.
That was because of the regulation for this instrument, but the funds that have been planned for 2000 will be fully paid out during the course of 2001.
May I say finally that, in my estimation, in the year 2000 we set something in motion in Turkey.
Mr Sacrédeus also takes up the important issue of the trial of a Turkish priest.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
This central idea logically leads to a political approach which says that economic reform, social involvement, social cohesion and job creation go hand in hand.
Others, who have prided themselves all their lives on the achievements of the Member States, will also have to make some mental effort to realise that the new enlarged common market calls for concerted efforts and new rules to ensure that the process to achieve success can be implemented everywhere.
The Stockholm Summit comes precisely at this decisive moment.
We are told that concrete objectives are difficult to set.
We have achieved all this with a common effort, and these are all complex matters which call for more than one participant.
We will be able to offer the still more than 14 million unemployed in the European Union real opportunities of taking part in this process of bringing about success.
But for that very reason it is also proper for the Commission, in a preparatory paper in the run-up to Stockholm, to propose that in Stockholm we should look at very specific goals to increase the employment rate to 67% by 2005 and to strengthen the participation of women in the labour force to 57%.
It must be made clear that the European Council is assuming its leadership role and that Parliament is taking up its proper place, the place to which it is entitled as the directly elected representative of the people of Europe.
Mr President, Mr Bullmann, Mr Cocilovo, Mr Gasòliba i Böhm, first of all I should like to thank you for the chance Parliament is giving me to debate with you the Lisbon strategy, the system we have established to monitor what was decided there and how it is being put into practice.
Mr Bullmann has stressed this global vision, a vision that I share absolutely, to which, of course, the Commission' s synthesis report responds.
While success may focus, for instance, on the improved reorientation of the economic policy guidelines, taking the Lisbon objectives on board, or on subjects such as the approval of the taxation package, the European company statute or the adoption of the social Agenda in Nice, it is also true that there are areas where we are lagging behind, such as the Community patent, the Galileo programme, or others as significant as the lifelong learning strategy or the tax benefit systems, which are certainly fundamental for growth and employment.
In any case, the synthesis report highlights the good performance of the economy, the growth achieved last year and that expected next year, and the creation of 2.5 million jobs, which is, without any doubt, a fundamental point.
We must not just think exclusively about growth and forget about the other aspects of Lisbon.
There is no doubt that macro-economic growth and stability are fundamental elements, but employment and social cohesion are too.
As the Commissioner responsible for Economic and Financial Affairs I should like to say a little more about three points that I think are relevant: first of all, the maintenance and strengthening of a stable macro-economic framework.
In the current favourable economic climate, despite the slowing of American growth, I believe we have to continue the processes of fiscal consolidation and improving the quality and sustainability of public finances, taking into account aspects as important as the ageing of the population, for instance.
When I say quality, I mean especially a fiscal policy aimed more towards creating jobs, supporting research and innovation, and increasing investment in human resources.
The second of my concerns is that we have to strengthen the potential growth of the Union.
Yet in this period of economic boom we have a unique opportunity to improve the internal market for services and achieve greater openings in sectors such as energy, transport and others that benefit the consumer.
We are aware, of course, that any liberalisation process has to be accompanied at the same time by a regulation control plan, which in the end will allow us to achieve positive effects without a negative impact on society.
My last comment refers to job creation and a rise in the activity rate: we must remember that two thirds of the difference between the gross domestic product levels of the United States and the European Union is due precisely to the different use of the work factor.
It is therefore absolutely fundamental to set in motion all the necessary fiscal and social reforms, including early retirement, pension plans or labour regulations, which will enable us to improve this situation.
Also fundamental are elements like education and training, business incentives and also public investment, essential for job quality.
All this should enable us Europeans to make progress along the line defined in Lisbon, which we all want to be consolidated in Stockholm.
The reports we are dealing with here, the Bullmann report and the Gasòliba i Böhm report, include a large number of suggestions that are very close to the content of the synthesis report.
Parliament is right when it points out that for the Lisbon strategy to be successful it is absolutely essential to have the commitment of all the players involved in the process.
From this viewpoint the two reports presented to the House today are without any doubt basic elements and a clear expression of Parliament' s commitment to cooperate in the Lisbon process, which - as I said earlier - we hope will continue and improve with the decisions made in Stockholm.
The strategic goal of the European Union economy is to turn itself into the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world capable of sustainable growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
All these objectives are highly demanding.
The European Union will not give up its level of social cohesion as an economy based on well-being, which is one of the great features of European society, achieved and consolidated during the second half of the last century.
At the same time it is a clearly dynamic economy, as it has been demonstrating over these last years.
But nobody can fail to see that having such strong social commitments, ensuring sustainable growth and also being the most competitive economy in the world are three highly demanding objectives, and to meet them we must therefore keep well on top of any possible obstacles to achieving this.
Mr Solbes has mentioned them: energy, transport and telecommunications.
But it is also obvious that to achieve this level of employment - and as both reports point out, with a more highly qualified labour force - we have to find a greater willingness to adapt, both socially - there are countries within the European Union that have very interesting formulas in this respect - and, as the 1995 Delors report said, in the sphere of labour market flexibility.
This is an essential factor in achieving two objectives, that is, a higher employment rate and greater competitiveness throughout the productive structure, where of course the labour dimension is fundamental.
Lastly, education.
I shall not labour this point, since the Bullmann report has mentioned it, as has Commissioner Solbes.
With regard to the employment targets in the Lisbon strategy, the Council agrees with the Bullmann report' s proposal for intermediate targets.
We hope that the Council will be able to decide on this in Stockholm.
Full employment and increased competitiveness will be achieved through economic reform and open and functioning markets, combined with a healthy macro-economic policy which stimulates growth and employment.
However, I would like to stress that economic reform must take place in conjunction with investment in training, a modernised social security system and improved welfare.
This also requires a commercial climate which facilitates investment and the establishment of new growth companies.
In this context, we are also aware that external trade policy has a role to play, and we hope to be able to shed light on this issue too in Stockholm.
The Stockholm Summit should also emphasise the significance of new technology by developing the action plan for e-Europe and removing obstacles to the growth of biotechnology and its significance for innovation and growth.
It will also require measures to increase participation in the labour market.
The aim in Stockholm is to be able to agree on a definition of the concept of quality at work and its significance for growth and employment.
However, I shall at least try to make my position clear on some aspects of this report which have concerned Parliament in reaction to the Commission' s initiative and the commitments announced by the Council.
They are backed by weapons and police forces, whereas economic policy choices consistent with the aims I referred to earlier, supporting competition and growth, active policies on employment, investment in human capital, investment in lifelong learning, equal opportunities and regaining regional structural advantages, are very often largely dependent on commitments that are so solemnly affirmed and proclaimed but so little verified or verifiable.
Instead, comparable data should be made available, together with a rigorous social glossary which would make it impossible to go on using the same words with different meanings, as has sometimes happened, but, most of all - which is worse - to go on using the same words and doing different things.
The rapporteur proposes a dynamic combination of measures based on a complementary perception of economic reform, employment and social policy, illustrating the added benefits for each of these sectors.
We also need to ensure that suitable information networks are created, to which all citizens have access, without exclusion and without a cost barrier.
We need to strengthen culture in general in Europe and the cultural environment which is directly linked to the economic and social situation.
The whole of our society, our economic life, is on the threshold of major structural changes.
The European Union has set itself the ambitious target of becoming the most dynamic economic region in the world by 2010.
Our approach to new technologies, such as biotechnology, needs to be more aggressive and more optimistic.
In Bavaria there is a carpenter who already achieves 70% of his sales via the Internet.
We certainly cannot abandon the water market in Europe, with its high quality standard, to the vagaries of competition overnight in a sector specific or even case specific way.
This has come about via Amsterdam and Lisbon and is now continuing in Stockholm.
The Lisbon process comprises three parts: economic policy, employment policy and social policy/social cohesion.
I would like to thank rapporteur Bullmann for highlighting, in his report, this balance and the importance of maintaining it.
Indicators are not an end in themselves, but simply a means of achieving established targets.
I would also like to emphasise the role of Parliament.
However, one ingredient is missing - we mention it in our report and hope that the Gothenburg Summit will address the same aspect - and that is also to link the ecological aspects to this process and to these issues.
We now need firm proposals.
We would have preferred a more concentrated approach and a clear list of priorities.
In this context the Council deserves the most criticism, but Parliament is also at fault.
Other issues include reduced taxes, particularly on work, better conditions for small and medium-sized businesses and a more flexible labour market.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my speech will concentrate on the Commission report on the Lisbon European Council.
Similarly, it is not enough for the Commission to say that it has made a statement on services of general interest.
The Commission should look into two issues more closely.
On the other hand, there is the issue of public and private funding of this training, the problem of the responsibility of businesses, including for the training of their workers, which raises the question whether public money is well spent.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is the path to be followed after Lisbon?
First of all, I believe that we cannot regard the European Union' s strategy on sustainable development, full employment and greater social cohesion as set in stone.
The current framework to monetary, budgetary and financial policies encourages fiscal and social competition; the ability to carry out public policies is still compromised on a national level and is totally obstructed on a European level.
These areas of bias are obvious in the current problem regarding indicators.
There are comparable indicators at a national level, which are useful, but there are no European-level indicators to enable us to rank Europe' s position in the global economy and to apply common policies.
That is why we should consider Lisbon to be more of a beginning than an achievement; we must work on ironing out these contradictions and, sooner or later, we will have to change this strategy in order to make progress.
I support the Bullmann report, which recommends public investment and social legislation.
I would like to stress, moreover, that if the internal market does not reach its goal in terms of essential services such as energy and transport, it is not due to deregulation, but because of a lack of infrastructure and common public regulations.
As we know, the 15 Member States do not have a common economic policy so much as a group of Community guidelines, laws and prohibitions.
Faced with the challenge of globalisation, there must be more effort to give the Union common arrangements and policies based on a common history and culture, and every country must adopt a competitive flexibility.
In some cases, public administration needs to be reformed, but in others there is also a need, for the purposes of wealth production, for the individual Member States to reform developing sectors and realise their potential in terms of basic criteria through their infrastructure policy, and move towards a policy of wealth redistribution.
However, while virtue in public accounting is fundamental, compared with growing poverty and insecurity, it cannot find meaning only in the reduction of social costs without any non-statistical consideration of demographic growth and of the sometimes strident justifications for the continual requests to reduce labour costs without a concrete participatory system.
Liberalisation enters into these considerations too, because, while we support it in terms of theoretical benefit to the final consumer, in practice it is not reflected in quality, safety or universal enjoyment.
So roll on greater coordination of Community policies and better indicators to demonstrate their effectiveness.
Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, I have to say that my assessment of the Lisbon resolutions and, above all, of the goal, so often evoked in this House, of making the economy of the European Union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, can be summed up like this: it is an empty, rhetorical formula with little or nothing to do with what is or is not really happening in the economies of the European countries.
For example, the Bullmann report talks about modernising the pension systems, a subject also mentioned by Commissioner Solbes.
Well, if we are going to talk about practical things to be done and not just high-flown goals, Parliament should make its voice heard in a much stronger, more decisive, more rigorous way, and call urgently for a reform which leads to financially sustainable social security systems which are less unfair in terms of balance between the generations.
In the dynamic economy dominating the world today - the United States' economy - there is concern about social security deficits which will begin to show up in 2025 and will have used up the accumulated capital reserves only in 2037.
In conclusion, Mr President, let us talk less about goals we all agree on - who would not want Europe to be a dynamic economy? - and a bit more about the choices, some of them painful and difficult, which need to be made as soon as possible.
The fact is that the Member States accepted monetary union reluctantly, but are not about to sacrifice even more policy freedom in order to achieve the real convergence required.
The socio-economic performance indicators proposed by the Commission represent an attempt to bring about a form of socio-economic coordination nonetheless, without having to go through a legislative procedure bristling with pitfalls.
Given this political reality, it is very foolish to nip this convergence process in the bud by proposing a confusing mass of indicators.
The problem for the future consists in doing the right thing with the data and new facts at our disposal.
No, the red-green coalition is doing this aspect of the European challenge a real disservice.
Mr President, the new European strategy which came out of Lisbon for a competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based Europe stood the test of time in the year 2000 and so, with the help of the synthesis report and the resolutions adopted at Stockholm, it must be further consolidated within the main thrusts of economic policy, which must be more binding this year than they have been in previous years.
The strategic approach of giving equal status to the policy areas of economic reform, economic growth, full employment and social inclusion has proved its worth.
Mr Friedrich, extended codecision can even lead to higher motivation among the workforce and thus to increased productivity.
The Bullmann report and the synthesis report, with its ten correctly identified fields of action, rightly emphasise that the future of Europe lies in the ability of Member States to reform themselves, in the qualifications offensive aimed at increasing employment, in the modernisation of infrastructures, the expansion of the information society and in overcoming poverty and social exclusion.
Especially important is a clear regulatory framework in all areas, most notably for financial services, which have a high priority for increased investment activity, which is crucial in the EU.
It is also important that the open coordination process method is taken a step further.
The Swedish Presidency has called for democracy and transparency in this area.
I see in the Commission's synthesis report no more than four or five paragraphs on this very important issue.
We often deal with proposals that come from the European Commission which do not have proper impact assessments attached to them.
Mr President, it sounds wonderful that the EU wants to create the most competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based economy.
I naturally hope that, at the Stockholm European Council, the Swedish Government will highlight and prioritise the left-wing model which stresses the importance of full employment and a socially responsible development policy and rejects the trend towards liberalisation, deregulation, flexibility, etc.
Let me immediately state that I support the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam which call for the need to coordinate broad economic policies of the various participating Member States within the single European currency.
However, any proposals which are brought forward in this regard, whether it be via the European Commission or otherwise, must be fair and they must be balanced.
Ireland has consistently supported the European Union and this has been borne out in all of the referenda in my country, where the citizens - and it does not happen in every country - have been given the right to express their views in relation to Europe.
It is important to substantiate this and it is important to note that for a number of years the economic growth in my country has been between 10 and 12% - in sharp contrast with the late 1980s when it was 0%.
The majority of the people in my own country support our Minister for Finance and the only people who do not are those in opposition in my country and they are using the recommendation of the Commission for what they deem to be short-term political advantage.
We will have to make enormous efforts to achieve this and it will only be possible if we succeed in mobilising the forces which are currently slumbering in European enterprises and in European research and training establishments, in the context of an open market economy.
We also need to create a European economic policy based on common principles and I am convinced that can only be done in terms of a social market economy.
There are other areas where responsibility clearly lies with the Member States, such as taxes, social security systems and training.
We need more data on the growth of services in the European Union.
I must make it very clear that, in the case of data collected in this area, I would regard it as disastrous if, once it is available, such data was misused for planned economic intervention in the economic affairs of the European Union, and we need to build in the relevant safeguards in advance.
I shall do everything I can to make this miracle happen, even more so because I was in the same situation as you.
As we indicated yesterday, the Commission is in a position to accept all the compromise amendments of the rapporteur and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market that have already been adopted in the Legal Affairs Committee, that is to say Amendments Nos 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 14 and 15.
However, the Commission has concerns about some of the other amendments adopted in the Legal Affairs Committee and therefore cannot accept Amendments Nos 2, 4, 11, 12 and 13.
All these further amendments are unacceptable to the Commission.
Today's vote is of utmost importance for the future of copyright and related rights in the information society.
Madam President, I would like to declare my economic interest and for this reason I will not be taking part in the vote.
I refer to Article 1 of Annex I of our Rules of Procedure.
Such interests are registered in the written declaration of Members' interests, so they are there for the public to see; that declaration will also soon be on the Internet following the vote in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last week.
Madam President, the same applies to me as a major international publisher and broadcasting company.
Madam President, I am actually in the same situation.
Before the vote on Amendment No 11 Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to table an oral amendment.
Nevertheless, we shall conduct the test, pursuant to the Rules of Procedure. (The President noted that more than 12 Members rose to oppose moving the oral amendment) After the vote on Amendment No 32 Madam President, it is with regard to Amendment No 32 in which the English uses the phrase "may use works" and the Swedish uses "tillgång till" [literally "access to" ].
Ideally, this point should have been made before the vote.
However, in this case, Amendment No 32 has been rejected, and that settles the issue, I believe.
Before the vote on Amendment No 35 Madam President, I would just like to say that here too the German version is incorrect.
Madam President, I just wanted to explain that this directive on a uniform bus for Europe was rejected by all groups at first reading.
This is an issue which is not unimportant as a matter of principle because Article 152 makes it clear that harmonisation cannot take place within the health sphere.
Mr Krarup, on behalf of his group, has just moved a request for referral back to committee.
Secondly, I would like to point out that we are not dealing with Article 152 here, on health, but with Article 153, which concerns consumer protection.
For this reason, I ask that we vote on this report today and that we do not refer it back to committee.
I did try to avoid this, but perhaps we should base our arguments on the facts and on the system of law in the European Union.
In the context of the internal market we are obliged to work at harmonising legislation in the area of consumer protection too.
The intention is not to overstep the competences of the European Parliament, and we are simply doing what we are doing in other areas.
Madam President, this request from the EDD Group is actually an abuse of our procedures.
It was accepted almost unanimously in committee, in the presence of Baroness Nicholson in fact.
The same model could be reversed to help improve American knowledge of language teaching methods and working in multi-cultural contexts.
The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport was notified of the agreement only a few weeks before the negotiations with the American authorities.
The agreement is to receive EUR 8.6 million for its five-year duration.
In this, too, I have received positive feedback from the other concerned parties, and I trust that it is one that can be discussed in greater length in time for the next agreement in 2005.
Bowe report (A5-0032/2001) Madam President, Bonino List Members have voted in favour of this directive on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms.
It is certainly an important vote because this directive takes account of the precautionary principle without confusing it with prohibition, and, after three years of work, we believe we have taken an important step forwards.
I hope the vetoes and bans will be removed in this way, but, above all, I hope this openness will not just apply to agribusiness but also, and as soon as possible, to the field of medical research, and that it will not be overshadowed by clerical or religious vetoes.
Such approvals would, in fact, contravene the precautionary principle to which the new directive makes explicit reference and they would put the environment and consumers' health at risk.
Due to Green efforts, the new directive will also require all locations of GMO releases to be recorded in a public register.
However, elements of this framework, the traceability and labelling of GMOs and their derivatives, the liability for damage caused by GMOs and the implementation of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety have not yet been addressed through any legislation.
I have therefore abstained in the vote.
The needs of our environment and biodiversity should be paramount in this area.
The national safeguard clause in Article 23 is too weak, as a Member State may find itself bound by an authorisation for placing products onto the market that would be valid throughout the European Community.
Our vote against this report is not a vote against research into agriculture or against the scientists who carry out research in this area.
Yet, there is nothing in the proposal for a directive which convinces us that releasing GMOs and, more importantly, placing GMOs on the market, will be subject to strict monitoring, leading to an outright ban if this were shown to be in the interests of society, even if this means a clash with the interests of the agricultural food corporations.
The fact that these agricultural food corporations continued to sell bonemeal, despite having been proven to be harmful, and the lax attitude, even complicity, of Member States and European institutions towards this issue are already sending out warning signals and we will certainly pay a high price for this in the future.
We therefore voted against this report.
We cannot vote on the release of GMOs without these guarantees.
At any rate, five Member States have already stated their determination to retain a strict ban on putting GMOs on the market in the future, even if the revision of the directive should be approved, and I would like to congratulate them.
It is more important for the precautionary principle to take precedence over the commercial interests of various multinational companies and that the protection of European consumers is the only aspect that we take into account.
The compromise that the European Parliament and the Council have reached is clearly inadequate, even though the content of this proposal for a directive is an improvement on the original proposal and, above all, because it is more comprehensive than the previous directive.
Since the Commission has made a commitment to presenting appropriate legislative proposals on labelling and traceability in 2001, which will complement the current labelling system in line with the White Paper on food safety, the moratorium must be maintained, at least during the process of drafting and adopting this legislation.
The new directive on deliberate release of GMOs aspired to "include all direct and indirect ecological aspects" .
It is clear that we are allowing the release of GMOs in agriculture without being fully aware of the risks that we are taking and without knowing who shall be held legally responsible for the damage either.
One possibility is to permit commercial applications, accept uncontrollable changes in nature and promote the sale of new products with a still unknown risk to unwitting consumers.
The debate illustrated the considerable risks from GMOs without throwing up any definitive or persuasive arguments to the contrary.
Even the Council's common position was adopted despite the fact that Member States such as France, Italy and Denmark stated that they felt that a new five-year moratorium was needed.
It is for these reasons that we are unable to vote in favour of the common position on the new directive on GMOs.
García-Orcoyen Tormo report (A5-0033/2001) Madam President, we approved the report as it is an important instrument for rewarding businesses which go further than other businesses.
Madam President, I voted against the report on the regulation allowing voluntary participation in EMAS.
I have voted against because I am opposed to the word 'voluntary' which appears in the title.
The possibility exists in Germany, but in the Netherlands and Denmark the large institutions are trying to block it.
I note that this aspiration was not given due attention during the conciliation procedure.
This would appear to put the ball back in the court of the two Member States concerned.
Recommendation for second reading (A5-0043/2001) by Mr Boselli Madam President, I voted in favour of the report on protecting copyright.
I am in favour of European regulation of this important sector, but I have to say that, after I had voted, I was assailed by a doubt which, I hope, can be resolved in the future.
Madam President, it is always a difficult task to strike a fair balance between the necessary level of copyright protection and protecting everyone' s right to knowledge and learning.
My friend Mr Poos and I voted against almost all the amendments that were tabled by the parliamentary committee and by other Members, because we believed that the first common position was very fair and well balanced.
I believe that it provides Parliament and the Council with a good starting point for resolving this difficult problem.
We can be confident that in our vote we are providing - for example, in Amendment No 5 - protection for rightholders against potential Internet piracy and we have also knocked out some amendments tabled by the PPE-DE Group which would have been very damaging for rightholders.
At the same time we are not denying access of citizens to the brave new world of the information society and, in particular, to the more disadvantaged users and communities.
We need to protect these industries which create jobs and boost our economy - not just locally, but in the European domain.
The music industry would crumble without proper protection from piracy on the Internet.
Based on UK experience we see no reason why that need be so, which is why the British Conservatives are now voting against Amendment No 11.
If, however, this matter cannot satisfactorily be dealt with without legislation, we believe it should be reviewed as part of the review of the directive in 18 months time.
We obviously support the right of authors, artists, composers, performers, writers and journalists, etc., to make a reasonable living from their work.
Like other Members who spoke at the beginning of this debate, I have abstained in the vote because I am a rightholder in the field of television documentary archive and books.
None of these interests are directly involved in any financial gain for me should the amendments be passed, and in any event - in common with the rapporteur, Mr Boselli - I am opposed to many of them.
Naturally, it is in everyone' s interest for works of art to be widely distributed, particularly by the new methods of communication.
Ultimately, I myself am very satisfied with the result achieved, which struck a fair balance between the interests of the consumer, industry and the rightholders.
In the matter of caching, I would have thought it more desirable for this report to tie in more closely with the e-commerce directive.
Recommendation for second reading (A5-0039/2001) by Mr Miller Madam President, I am grateful for the opportunity to speak in the name of my group.
Yesterday in the debate, constraints of time meant that none of us were able to speak, but this is a proposal which we have supported wholeheartedly in committee and which we supported wholeheartedly today.
What we are accomplishing are secure, minimum safety standards for the design of buses operating in Europe and secure basic requirements to ensure access for disabled people and others with reduced mobility, including older people - Mr Fatuzzo and others no doubt - and parents with children using urban buses.
This is really important.
My group wishes to declare its solidarity with all those who will be assisted by this.
One of the marks of enhanced civilisation in my lifetime has been the far greater attention that we pay in public places and public activities to ensuring that our fellow citizens, who have the grave misfortune to suffer from one or other kind of disability or handicap, are fully admitted to public life in our societies.
We in the PPE-DE Group still take this line.
I also voted against Amendment No 9 calling for no debate on this document.
This report says, for instance, that parents with children in prams are people with reduced mobility.
In particular, this report is a victory for disabled transport users.
It creates minimum safety standards and puts in place access requirements which will be good for elderly people with reduced mobility and parents with prams boarding urban buses.
I fully support measures to improve accessibility for people of reduced mobility to urban buses with the introduction of ramps or lifts and low floor buses.
Moreover, it is not just elderly people, people with disabilities - including blind people - and parents with children who will benefit.
These are simply common-sense measures that will make life so much easier for people across Europe, particularly in Britain where buses are an essential way of getting around our towns and cities.
The bus and coach directive will secure minimum safety standards for the design of buses operating in Europe and basic requirements to ensure access for people with reduced mobility, such as the continued manufacture of existing low-floor buses and better facilities for passengers with mobility difficulties, especially wheelchair users and parents with pushchairs.
So they are calling - and rightly so - for their regulation. - (SV) We have voted against the report by Mrs Müller on food supplements.
There is no reason not to introduce the duty to report in the same way in all Member States as quickly as possible.
After BSE, inter alia, the confidence of consumers must be regained through more transparency in the food production chain, safety and proper labelling.
Furthermore, I approve the attempts to establish a European basis for food supplements, given the differences in relevant national provisions.
I voted in favour of the report, but I wanted to make these comments in the hope that the Commission and the Council will understand that overzealousness and excessive restrictive regulation are out of place in this matter as they are in others.
So we say yes to cleaner motorcycles, yes to new testing procedures that are more in line with actual usage of vehicles and yes to a timetable that manufacturers deem realistic.
Jensen report (A5-0018/2001) Madam President, I voted against this report on Community incentive measures in the field of employment.
EUR 55 million are to be spent and not a single job created.
We can only fight the scourge of unemployment if we work together right across the 15 Member States.
It is our top priority and we must move heaven and earth to make it happen.
The goals set at the Lisbon Summit last year were a crucial step forward in establishing the right conditions to achieve full employment, whereby the Heads of State and Government set the EU the objective of becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-driven economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth accompanied by quantitative and qualitative improvement of employment and of greater social cohesion.
The forthcoming Stockholm Council in March will continue to develop the European agenda for a flexible economy, liberalisation of gas and electricity markets, postal liberalisation, reform of the financial services sector, proposals on telecommunications and e-commerce, measures to create a favourable environment for SMEs, and targets for employment rates to benefit all our citizens in the European Union.
In Britain, our Labour Government is leading the way towards job creation and full employment.
Not only has youth unemployment been halved under Labour, but the government is now introducing vocational training for our young people to benefit from new skills in a high-tech and evolving job market.
Madam President, I fully endorse this report which is yet another benchmark in our progress towards full employment in a dynamic knowledge-based economy.
Of course, the text is not particularly explicit in this regard, and the basic intentions are wrapped up in general considerations, some of which are pertinent, particularly on the lack of equality between men and women in employment.
This proposal is intended to implement the provisions of Article 129 of the Treaty establishing the European Community (the legal basis for necessary expenditure on employment) and to develop the activities highlighted by the Lisbon European Council in the context of the European Employment Strategy.
The objective is to promote cooperation between Member States and support their action in the area of employment.
Such measures will be funded from the Community budget to a value of EUR 55 million for the period 2001-2005 (or EUR 10 million annually, with an initial allocation of EUR 15 million in 2001).
I would also argue in favour of our Mediterranean partners being involved.
The European Parliament awaits an interim report from the Commission on 31 December 2003 and a final report on 31 December 2006.
In this context, the amendments seeking to inform European citizens better, to act in cooperation with the social partners and local or regional authorities, or those seeking to promote an increase in awareness of the position of women and professional equality by means of studies of the causes of career breaks, parental leave and part-time work are positive steps, and I shall vote in favour of them.
We refute the logic enshrined in the four pillars of the Luxembourg Compromise (entering the labour market, enterprise spirit, business adjustment, equal opportunities) which are used as the criteria for assessment between Member States and will serve to support the development of a European labour market subordinated to the liberal economy.
In order to consolidate the employment strategy at local and regional level, the rapporteur suggests using part of the appropriations at that level to promote cooperation, improve knowledge and the exchange of information and good practice, and evaluate the results of the application of national programmes benefiting employment at local and regional level.
I also support the topping-up of appropriations for the implementation of the activities, to provide an overall figure of EUR 65 million rather than the 55 set by the Commission.
Swoboda Report (A5-0024/2001) Madam President, I voted in favour of the report implementing the next step in Turkey' s candidacy.
I am in favour of Turkey joining the European Union, but I ask all those concerned to add a clause to the agreement between Italy and Turkey.
Madam President, I voted against the report, not because I have anything against the Turkish people but because I am against the institutional system, which prevents true democracy.
Article 4 of this proposal includes a type of suspension clause if there is insufficient progress toward fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria.
Now this proposal has been accepted I ask for Article 4 to be implemented and for aid to Turkey to be stopped until it meets the Copenhagen criteria.
I do not think this reclassification is called for because, although the Helsinki Council of 13 December 1999 did indeed approve Turkey' s candidate status (something I would challenge, personally) it was specified that negotiations proper would not be opened with Turkey until it had satisfied the Copenhagen criteria, particularly those relating to democracy and respect for human rights.
The best way for the European Union to force the Turkish Government to meet its commitments, a method which is lacking in hypocrisy and which does not allow a pretext for further liberal pressure, which only in any case serve the interests of free trade in Europe, would be to support the democratic opposition.
Officially this country is a parliamentary democracy which outwardly resembles Member States in terms of custom and practice, but for large minority groups amongst the population, this comparison does not hold water.
Under these circumstances, there is not a single reason for tightening the bonds of friendship and allowing Turkey to qualify for contributions from pre-accession funds such as ISPA and SAPARD.
There were three constraints I had to manage: the doubts and questions of my fellow Members in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the criticisms expressed by civil society, particularly through the CEE Bankwatch Network and finally the answers and arguments presented in response to both these types of question or criticism by the European Investment Bank.
I would like in particular to thank my fellow Members on the Committee of Economic and Monetary Affairs for the relevance of the questions that they, in a way, entrusted to me to put on their behalf to the European Investment Bank.
I would like to thank the civil society volunteers for their competence in monitoring the activities of a bank which, in the final analysis, has an influence on 5% of all investments within the European Union, making it the EU' s largest investor.
Broadly speaking, we were unanimous on the proposals for policy which are directed at least as much to the other bodies of the European Union, and even the Member States, as to the European Investment Bank.
Moreover, Europe has signed up to the Kyoto Agreement which requires it to reduce its production of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases by 8% on average by the year 2010.
In other words, this international agreement will become binding in 7 years' time.
Furthermore, since Lisbon, Europe has given itself the objective of becoming a world power in terms of the knowledge economy and new technologies.
Finally, Europe has given priority to the development of SMEs.
There are three new objectives, then, in relation to the 1999 report, which we shall examine formally today.
We wished to call upon the constituent bodies of the European Union and the EIB itself to reorient its policy in the light of these three objectives which were perhaps not as clear at the time when the EIB adopted its priorities or drew up its 1999 report.
The initial paragraphs of the report before you are absolutely unanimous and aim essentially at expanding or facilitating loans in these three areas.
Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report on the EIB 1999 annual report and my compliments to the bank of course for the report itself.
This is the first time that the European Parliament has delivered its opinion on the annual report.
The rapporteur believes that the EIB should have a better overview of the quality of the loans.
To this end, the EIB should devote more attention to evaluation of projects in the fields of regional and environmental investment, for example.
The rapporteur proposes that someone from the European Central Bank should be appointed as a member of the Audit Committee, but an audit committee has more of an accounting function than one of real banking supervision.
For example, we recognise the important role the EIB has in the European investment climate and we also feel that the EIB should take more account in its internal scrutiny of the effectiveness of the European funds spent on the environment.
I am sorry to say that we do not agree with the majority of the rapporteur' s amendments because he is using them to emphasise a radical and one-sided position.
First and foremost, I would like to propose that we make a tradition of this, just as we do with our debates with the European Central Bank, with Wim Duisenberg.
I think it would be a good idea to carry on the tradition of devoting attention to the European Investment Bank here in Parliament, and I hope this will then stimulate more interest than is in evidence today.
I think we may be able to do it next year but in any case, I would like to propose that we put the annual report on 2000 on Parliament' s agenda just as soon as we can, and prepare it at least as thoroughly as we have done with this annual report.
I think the said press report also revealed that the bank has given a great deal of thought to environmental groups in its policy, and to the environment in general, and I believe its activities have contributed to this as well.
The employment objective, which is also one of the European Union' s priority objectives - I think Lisbon confirmed this once again - is expressed too implicitly in your plans and reports to my mind, and is not sufficiently visible or verifiable.
And then you rightly took up the initiatives from the Lisbon Summit held last year and in particular, launched new initiatives for the knowledge-based economy and new technologies, notably the innovation 2000 initiative.
The quality of work is an extremely important consideration if people are to be able to function properly in the economy, in an economy based more on knowledge and creativity.
What our group does want to do is pursue the discussion on the potential role of the European Central Bank, also with regard to scrutiny of prudential rules and banking supervision.
The European Investment Bank is a non-profit-making body because that is what the Member States' governments decided, since its mission was not to obtain economic benefits but rather to contribute to the balanced development of the European Community through granting medium and long-term credits and guarantees for investment projects in the poorest regions, thus fostering economic and social cohesion.
The first is that the bank has had a terrible information policy, and there has been poor supervision of the bank' s decisions and work.
There are numerous examples where the bank has supported projects within the EU and in the candidate countries which have actually been indefensible from an environmental point of view.
I also believe that the work of the European Central Bank in other areas is of great importance, especially where small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned.
In recent years the EIB has developed its own initiatives which, in my opinion, are especially welcome.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I first thank Parliament' s President and Bureau for suggesting that, for the first time, the President of the European Investment Bank should be invited to speak at a plenary session on the occasion of the discussion of the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the activities of the EIB.
I regard it as an honour, but also as a sign of Parliament' s desire to take an interest in the activities of all the European institutions, in order to ensure that the voice of the citizens it represents is heard more effectively.
With regard to Mr Lipietz' s report, I found it both stimulating and useful, and I can tell you that work has already started on implementing a number of the recommendations made in the draft resolution.
I should like to point out that the new Corporate Operational Plan, which covers the period 2001-2003, redefines our priorities along the lines proposed in recommendations 3 and 5.
We have, in fact, included among the five priorities adopted by our board of directors, and here I quote, "encouraging environmental protection and sustainable development, in particular implementation of the Kyoto Protocol" .
This approach in practice already existed, given that last year lending for projects contributing directly towards improvement of the environment amounted to EUR 6.4 billion within the European Union, an increase of 39% compared with the previous year, and EUR 740 million in the candidate countries.
In addition, we have reorganised our Projects Directorate in order to ensure that the environmental impact of the projects for which finance is sought from us is systematically evaluated.
With regard in particular to our contribution towards implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, a general policy note will be submitted to our board of directors in May.
Regional development: we consider that at least two thirds of lending within the European Union must go towards projects located in assisted areas.
Lastly, I would mention as the final priority support for the Community' s cooperation policy, notably in the context of the recent Cotonou Agreement.
In particular, recommendation 4 calls upon the EIB to undertake an in-depth study of the real contribution made by projects to regional development.
First of all, I should like to point out that, since 1995, the EIB has had an independent unit for ex post evaluation of projects, a unit whose reports are transmitted directly to the board of directors, without any possibility of their being changed by the hierarchy or the Management Committee.
Today, we have reports covering a larger number of projects and the evaluation results are distinctly more encouraging.
Thus a recent report dealing with a number of projects in northern Portugal and southern Italy shows that the vast majority of these have had a positive, and in some cases very positive, impact on the development of the regions concerned.
However, the same report emphasises the importance of further refining the methodology, particularly in order to identify more diversified and more specific criteria for improving the selection, a priori, of the projects that are most promising for regional development.
I should like to confirm before you that the agreement entered into in 1999 between the Court of Auditors, the Commission and the EIB concerning the bank' s activities based on Community resources is being implemented to the satisfaction of all the parties concerned and that, of course, the EIB will continue to meet its obligations vis-à-vis the Court of Auditors resulting from that agreement.
This is a matter that has been discussed by your committee.
In any case, in the short term perhaps the most practicable approach is no doubt to strengthen the Audit Committee by seeing to it that members are appointed who have experience and expertise in the field of banking supervision.
Finally, with regard to the policy of transparency, we are willing to sign up to the guidelines set out in recommendation 11.
However, we must emphasise that, unlike the institutions referred to in your rapporteur' s text, the majority of the EIB' s clients are private commercial companies and obviously do not want the confidentiality that is standard practice in commercial negotiations not to be observed in relations with the EIB.
But, subject to that reservation, we have decided to move towards greater transparency.
I am thus able to announce to you that we are going to publish on our website a list of all projects in the pipeline, before they are even submitted to the board of directors, except of course where the promoter has good reason to object on grounds of confidentiality.
With that sole proviso, all projects will be announced on our website.
It was established to serve the objectives of the European Union.
From the Commission' s viewpoint, it is true that we must do everything we can to ensure that the instruments we have are effective in facilitating investments, but it is no less true that there are projects, such as in the environmental field or from the countries applying for accession, which, in view of the interest rate levels we are working with today, could be resolved more efficiently by means of cofinancing systems, for instance through some of the current programmes.
Such efficiency could be even greater at a later stage, when said countries are members of the European Union.
The report also calls on the bank to ensure that its risk-capital activities are adequate and to make the necessary effort to attract risk capital via the stock exchange, especially in those sectors with problems.
The President of the bank has already made some reference to the efforts made.
The Commission, for its part, has supported the bank' s ideas of arriving at a better distribution of functions between the former European Investment Fund and the bank.
Allow me to comment on the greater importance to be given to small and medium-sized enterprises.
Small and medium-sized enterprises are going to be able to take advantage of this possibility of access to risk-capital, but they are also going to be the great beneficiaries in the bank' s Innovation 2000 Initiative, especially in its support for investment in information and the knowledge-based economy.
All this supports the Lisbon proposal, but it also supports this possible action on behalf of small and medium-sized enterprises.
A subject I think especially worth highlighting is global loans, which are also put forward in terms relevant for small and medium-sized enterprises and without any doubt will enable us to solve two problems that some of you have mentioned.
We must not forget that these global loans at the moment are practically one third of the bank' s new loans.
One last comment: on page 18 of the report the Commission is called upon to perform a monitoring role, especially in connection with risk-capital and also the control and management of interest rates.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
I would like to make two points.
That is why I would particularly like to express my support for paragraphs 24 to 29 of this report, which redefine quality of life and quality of employment.
This not only raises a problem of cohesion - since it is not just a matter of compensating the less favoured areas - but also the problem of how to manage European development in the future, so as to promote the spread of development, and hence of employment, from the most favoured to the least favoured zones.
Meanwhile, in the social sphere, despite the statements of intent, fundamental decisions on protecting workers' rights are being delayed, as happened here only yesterday when we discussed industrial restructuring.
The Lisbon process requires a move from words to action.
She introduced important elements into the discussion on growth, including the significance of trade.
Therefore, I wonder if the Commission and the Council can report on how work on increased trade and reduced tariffs can progress under the Swedish Presidency.
In this context, it would be interesting to hear whether the Council is still of the opinion that the question of the Tobin Tax is a national debate which has no place in this Parliament.
In its communication, the Commission takes up the need for simplification of regulations in the EU.
Finally, I would like to say that economic growth is naturally linked to employment and social security.
Mr President, we must now rethink the future cohesion policy in view of the challenges arising from enlargement to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
Enlargement will mean a large increase in population and geographical area, but also a dangerous increase in regional disparities.
Statistics are misleading, and a region that now has a per capita income of 70% of the Community average will not have improved its situation when after enlargement this percentage rises by 10 or 15 points.
For the new programming period we must have new indicators that reflect the growing complexity of our societies and our regions' economies: the unemployment rate, especially one referring to young women and the long-term unemployed; a region' s dependence on sectors in crisis, such as steel-making or fisheries; a low level of worker qualification; a lack of occupational training or education; limited economic diversification; the demographic situation; poor penetration of new technologies; or poor integration of women in society in the least developed regions, which is a reason for their backwardness.
All Union policies have to respond to this aim, helping improve competitiveness in the most backward regions and helping create more jobs and more skilled ones.
A stimulus that leads to regeneration and an increase in competitiveness and productivity.
Universal service must be defined in relation to the new technological environment.
In actual fact, technological developments make it possible to view universal service in an offensive and proactive manner rather than in a defensive backward-looking fashion, as a limited set of often mediocre public services, which people carefully avoid using, unless really driven to it.
We should like to see the real possibility of developing in this direction so that this universal service may contribute to balanced realisation of what was set as a strategic objective at the extraordinary European Council meeting in Lisbon in March 2000.
Mr President, on the report on the impact of liberalisation and the economic reform process our opinion can only be highly critical.
It is not because we do not share general ideas on the broad economic policy guidelines but because here, under the pretext of liberalisation, it is trying to lead us along paths which, instead of increasing the well-being of our societies, will only deepen the social inequalities in our supposedly more advanced societies.
In the report under discussion there are enough generic references to the United States model and phrases that have become the canon of right-wing economics that they cannot be accepted uncritically by those of us who try to keep a balance between broad economic objectives and building fairer societies.
This progressive attitude cannot be reconciled with statements made in this report.
My second point concerns social protection.
First and foremost, our own unemployed should be trained, and the lowest qualified functions should be reassessed in such a way as to ensure that our own people at least accept this work in the first place.
While the European Commission has set up some highly significant European initiatives and projects in this area, there is still a lack of effective coordination of national programmes and public and private projects developed by each country.
This leads to a situation where meagre national financial resources are often spent on duplication or wasted investment, and where there is a failure to adopt certain shared priorities.
It can work if the Commission uses its knowledge of existing national programmes and projects to become the promoter and monitor of open methods of cooperation between certain Member States on specific priorities, thus testing national governments' willingness to cooperate and converge to build a European Research Area.
Secondly, the introduction in the Union - also based on some experiments in open coordination - of a system of lifelong learning and training.
Setting up a system like that to benefit as many working men and women as possible will overcome the resistance developing in various sectors, because the temporary nature of jobs - and that is a very real factor in our labour market - deters companies from investing in human resources.
It is our wish to become the world' s most competitive and most dynamic knowledge-based economy, according to our leaders in Lisbon.
In order to streamline legislation, we should not only scrutinise our activities here, but also examine how a directive emerges from the national transposition processes.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, economic policy in Europe has chalked up a huge success and a huge failure.
And the rapporteur's ambitious efforts notwithstanding, I should like to point out that increasing the number of quantitative indicators does not lead us into dead-end street, because we may find ourselves in a position where, to quote the Bible, someone one day says to the Commission: Ìartha, Ìartha, thou art careful, and troubled about many things· (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to speak today to express a concern which we also share about what we can achieve as a result of the Lisbon decisions.
As many honourable Members have stated, we set ourselves an extremely important goal at Lisbon: achieving a competitive and dynamic Europe and, above all, a knowledge-based European society.
I too believe that the goals of full employment, respect for a social market economy and rapid progress towards liberalisation in many sectors are objectives we can and must set ourselves.
From this point of view, we should like to see considerable progress in drawing up a framework directive on general interest services.
A new dynamic with more flexible labour markets has emerged, but not everybody is keeping pace.
There are big difference between the regions, with high levels of employment and room for manoeuvre for enterprises in some regions but, in others, increasing unemployment causing people to leave their homes on economic grounds.
The Hughes procedure brought together the findings of the Bullmann report in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Cocilovo report in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Although the details may be assessed somewhat differently, this final report merits our support.
The new Member States have an extra need for parallel development within the areas of growth, welfare, social rights and influence for ordinary citizens and employees.
As its contribution to achieving the goal of implementing the proposals that have been made, the European People' s Party will assess the Spring Summit.
The debate has been full of ideas and very varied, and a number of aspects have been aired.
First, I should stress a point that I think is fundamental, which is that Lisbon has not, of course, changed its goals, i.e., full employment and the modernisation of our society, not forgetting respect for our social system and strong cohesion.
When we analyse the employment figures, it is quite clear what results have been achieved.
We can mention public investment, as some of you have done.
When we analyse the global strategy - and this is the content of the synthesis report - the emphasis is on the need to make progress in the various areas simultaneously in order to achieve the goals we set in Lisbon.
Neither these instruments nor these policies can exist by themselves; they are all linked together.
It is not a matter of balance between the various policies: it is more a synergy between different policies, which in the end should enable us to achieve the desired results.
If we analyse the report, it is clearly demonstrated that we have advanced since then.
It is true that indicators should not be seen as some kind of inventory, of position-taking on specific policies.
It is true that indicators are not goals in themselves, but are tools that should enable us to make progress and interpret reality more globally and accurately.
Contrary to what some of you have said, it is important to have indicators what in themselves tell us the reality of our situation.
There is no doubt at all that comparison with other models is useful.
What doubt is there that comparing certain rates of technological penetration in the European Union and the United States, for instance, will give us a measure of where we are with regard to the most advanced country in these matters?
Making a partial comparison - only on certain things and not on the whole model - between the two economies may give rise to interpretations that are not always correct.
In any case, when we are talking of comparative indicators there is always a difficulty, which is that we often do not have sufficiently homogeneous indicators for the realities we are comparing to be revealed through these figures.
It is true that cutting the number of indicators would make the report more visible; in terms of public opinion it would make it possible to send out clearer and more direct messages.
I think that having 28 indicators classified under the four basic Lisbon goals is the least number required to provide a good understanding of where we are at this moment.
This does not necessarily have to be a permanent tool, since real life and a better understanding of it will make us revise the indicators continuously, possibly changing some of them during this process which we began in Lisbon.
I believe that right now we already have enough instruments, at least for relations between the Commission and Parliament, to be able to make progress in our joint work.
In any case, the institutional agreement should also include the Council.
I should like to stress one point: participation by both Parliament and public opinion in the debate on Europe is always open.
The Commission has taken the initiative, for instance, with the economic interviews held once a year, the basic aim of which is to analyse the European economic situation specifically in this global world and in comparison with the context in those countries that serve as a reference for our situation.
This subject is always open to Parliament, and naturally we hope you will cooperate this year as you have in the past.
This, then, will be an open possibility after Gothenburg and will certainly figure in future debates.
A different problem is that of enlargement, which is also clearly referred to: the European Union economy must not only take this essential element into account, but our whole design must also be based on the consideration that the Union will enlarge in a relatively short time.
The European Union must take this element as a point of reference, but the applicant countries should also involve themselves in the Lisbon strategy by adopting its objectives as far as possible.
In speaking of Lisbon we are also speaking of the new method of coordination, the method of open coordination.
But it is clear that a liberalisation process will only be efficient and not cause problems if it is carried out in a legal framework with adequate control as regards regulation.
It is obviously a difficult subject and it is being piloted by Eurostat, where a working party intends to define elements of precisely this nature which will provide us with more detail as to whether the concerns of a part of our society about the excess of bureaucratic posts reflects the reality of the situation or not.
Coming to the end of my comments now, I must say that at the moment, it may be worth stressing that the synthesis report process is a global process that requires coherence between macroeconomic stability, a subject we consider fundamental, employment, reforms and social cohesion.
Within this concept of social cohesion, we must take a broad approach and keep a broad outlook; it must not confine itself exclusively to individual topics but must also address regional topics, as some of you have proposed.
It is easy to highlight the progress that has been made in general terms, but it is rather more complex to point out how these advances in each of our countries, or in each of our regions, can be compared with the others.
In any case, and I think this point is fundamental, the reforms we are putting into motion will make sense insofar as we are able to increase economic productivity and efficiency.
Introducing elements of the new economy in the European Union will be the key to our future development.
Growth yes, growth with social cohesion, growth that will enable us to face the future in terms of technological challenge; in the end, these are the Lisbon goals and these are the goals we have tried to include in our report.
We shall try to take into consideration all those elements that have arisen today, which will certainly be useful for our debate in Stockholm.
Since then, particularly in the lead-up to that European Council, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has had occasion to look into the issue of freedom of movement in more general terms.
This more general consideration has proved useful in indicating to us that, before extending freedom of movement to third-country nationals, we must, of course, ensure that it operates smoothly for European Union citizens.
That is why Regulation 1408/71 - which was originally designed to coordinate national social security systems - is one of the keystones in Citizens' Europe, and any obstacle or delay to its being modernised is a serious matter.
We are forced to note that the action taken by the Council does not always, or rather does not yet - which is not quite the same thing, reflect the expressed political will of the Tampere European Council of 15 and 16 October 1999 to create within the Union, I quote, an "area of freedom, security and justice" in which "the legal status of third-country nationals should be approximated to that of Member States' nationals." Indeed, I would remind you that Parliament had already decided the same thing in October 1998, when the Commission proposal under review at that time was adopted, without amendments, by Parliament.
The extension of Regulation 1408/71 to third-country nationals is such a sensitive issue that the citizens of the European Union ought to be fully involved in the form of the European Parliament, which represents them.
That is why the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs cannot accept the reference to other legal bases other than those given in the Commission proposal, and would like to point out that Regulation 1408/71 cannot be amended except through the codecision procedure.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what we are challenging in the Council proceedings is one and the same issue, whether it concerns European Community citizens or third-country nationals.
Failing to go down this route, Mr President, would doubtless impel the Members of the European Parliament to respond firmly - and with public support, we have no doubt - and to take action to oppose these obstacles to free movement.
Indeed I believe that the Swedish Presidency, on the basis of its traditions, may make a great contribution towards solving this problem.
Finally, I would like to conclude on another matter relating to the imminent future of the European Union, enlargement.
The Committee on Employment deems it essential for the countries involved in the next wave of enlargement to be informed of the various outstanding proposals regarding reform of the relevant article in Regulation 1408/71.
As Mr Rocard points out in the question, the conclusions from the European Council in Tampere addressed equal treatment of third-country nationals who are legally resident in the EU or in the EEA, for example by according them rights and responsibilities similar to those of EU citizens.
The rules for harmonisation contained in this regulation are a prerequisite for the free movement of persons.
In 1998, before the European Council in Tampere, the Council received a proposal from the Commission aimed at expanding Regulation No 1408/71 to cover third-country nationals.
In parallel with this, the Council is currently considering the Commission' s proposal on simplifying Regulation 1408/71.
The Council is currently giving the proposal its first reading.
My report deals with this regulation and, as has been said, it concerns a key mechanism in the implementation of the European Union's goal of free movement of people in that it coordinates social security systems.
We have heard already about third-country nationals and the legal base which should be applied to include them in the scope of the regulation; the comparative lack of progress in including accession countries in the coordination process; and the update of the regulation in my report to bring it into line with the changes made in the social security systems of certain Member States.
I will say more on that, but touch on the other two issues as well.
As has been stressed, a crucial factor underlining all these elements is the need to make rapid and positive progress on the Commission's proposal for a simplification and modernisation of the whole of Regulation 1408/71.
Paragraph 4 of the resolution tabled by four political groups makes it clear that Parliament is no longer prepared to continue with the piecemeal amendments and technical updates - of which my report is the latest and, we believe the last example.
That is why the amendments proposed and supported by the committee are technical ones.
Our aim is to deal with this report most speedily so as not to give the Council any excuse for not moving rapidly to the conclusion of its initial debate on overall simplification - again a point raised in the joint resolution.
Amendment No 8, for example, deals with occupational pensions which are not state-provided benefits and therefore currently outside the scope of the regulation.
I also consider that Amendment No 10 might be regressive in some Member States, as it proposes a general condition governing entitlement to unemployment benefit.
I accept that certain of the proposed amendments touch on some important issues and Parliament recognised them in its vote on the report on frontier workers last month - again, as recalled in the joint resolution.
Much of the debate about free movement tends to neglect the fact that people from current Member States wish to work and establish themselves within the accession countries, and hence our interest in the state of those negotiations.
Personally, I strongly support the Commission's proposals to include third-country nationals in the regulation and to do so on the legal base it has proposed.
Parliament should be involved in codecision on this issue, as it now is on matters relating to coordination of social security in general.
The inclusion of third-country nationals seems to me to be recognition of the principle of equal treatment of those who contribute to the economic and social life of the Union.
I was at a European Union migrants' forum conference representing the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs soon after that statement was made.
To sum up, I would urge Parliament to move to a rapid conclusion on my report so that we can turn our full attention to the much-needed simplification and modernisation of the whole of Regulation 1408/71 to make it more inclusive and effective for all of those covered by a social security scheme.
Every year, we receive from the competent committee a report on Regulation 1408, which attempts to coordinate the social security of frontier workers.
But the Council is playing the same game with the Commission, unfortunately.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two points.
A second important point, which has already been made, concerns frontier workers.
Mr President, there is no option but to agree with the idea that any person with the right to move freely within the European Union should be protected by a social security system, regardless of whether they are employed or unemployed.
The European Union must indeed guarantee equal treatment for third-country nationals legally resident within a Member State territory, according to the Tampere Conclusions.
It is not just about lack of social security protection.
It is about lack of recognition of qualifications.
It is about lack of opportunity for training and also a lack of opportunity for knowledge of what opportunities and what rights are available to people.
So when we speak about the free movement of workers and when we speak about updating regulations we should be clearer in our focus on two points, namely that, firstly, in Nice the governments decided that this should be done by unanimous voting, not by qualified majority voting, and secondly that there should be no discrimination - either positive or negative - against any worker who is legally resident within the Member States of the European Union.
My Group will therefore be supporting the resolution from the PPE-DE Group.
They are now being covered by Belgian social security, but lose all their rights elsewhere.
That is why our group is of the opinion that we should use this right at long last to force a dialogue with the Council.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that I empathise with many of my fellow MEPs, including those occupying the EPP benches, in terms of their feelings of anger and even frustration, and I also share these feelings, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
We have cooperated for years in order to break the deadlock in the issue of the free movement of persons and hence of frontier workers.
I happen to know that the Belgian Presidency is very much prepared to reach political agreement on the content of this dossier and on the timing.
Mr Danielsson, I believe we need this, but we cannot do this, of course, without Sweden' s strong commitment.
But our group does not believe that the annual technical amendment, Mr Pronk, is the right way to achieve this.
The best approach is to continue to form a united front in these issues and not to use this directive to pull cheap party-political stunts at the expense of frontier workers.
Whatever the case, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that the Belgian Presidency and the Swedish Presidency should facilitate a speedy breakthrough in this issue.
But if I can ask you something: I would very much like to know how Sweden, not only as the country holding the presidency, but also as a Member State of this European Union, intends to break the deadlock in this issue and how you stand on the extension to include third-country nationals.
Mr President, I also wish to emphasise that people' s opportunity to move freely to another EU country and work across frontiers is one of the major advances in European cooperation, and I believe we can all appreciate that it is only right and proper for people who obtain work in another EU country to be able to retain their social security rights.
The question arises as to whether, in addition to simplifying and improving the regulation for EU citizens, we can also ensure that it will be possible for third-country nationals engaged in active employment and resident in EU countries to be covered by the regulation.
If we succeed, and we are hopeful that we will, this will allow the forthcoming Belgian Presidency to move on to a strategic discussion on the proposal to simplify and modernise Regulation No 1408.
The Commission also thanks him for his support for Articles 42 and 308 of the Treaty as suitable legal bases for this objective.
An extension of this nature, in my opinion, is fully consistent with Community policy, particularly if you take into account the conclusions of the Tampere European Council on the situation of third-country nationals who reside legally in the Member States.
The Commission insists that the Council should intensify the debates on the proposals mentioned and is grateful for Parliament' s support on this matter.
Community coordination of national social security systems is a means to foster the free movement of workers, and in order to guarantee that this coordination works properly the amendments to national legislation also require the amendment of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; this is basically what it is about.
In fact the Commission included the same provisions in its 1998 proposal for the simplification and modernisation of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71.
The amendments that concern us now, however, propose a substantial change to the Regulation and clearly go beyond the technical nature of the update proposed by the Commission, and in my opinion the debate on the technical update should not be confused with a debate on the substantial amendments.
To sum up, therefore, we can accept Amendments Nos 1 to 7, but we cannot accept Amendments Nos 8, 9, 10, 12 and 13.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
Question Time (Council) The next item is Questions to the Council (B5-0007/2001).
I must tell you, Mr Alavanos, as you already know, I am the President of the sitting and that, before the sitting, in accordance with Rule 43 of the Rules of Procedure, it is the Presidency of Parliament, in this case Madam President, who has the power to accept a question or not.
I shall pass your point on to the President of Parliament because I am not a court that can judge even your arguments of unfair treatment today.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 1 and 2 will be taken together.
Question No 1 by (H-0015/01): Subject: Crisis management Can the Council clarify one aspect of the EU's new defence policy which has not been made plain in the debate in Sweden: will military intervention by the EU's planned rapid reaction force always require a United Nations mandate?
Question No 2 by (H-0022/01): Subject: UN mandate for peace-enforcement operations The Swedish Defence Minister, Björn von Sydow, wrote in the Sydsvenskan newspaper on 7 January 2001 that '...
This responsibility is stated in Article 11.1 of the Treaty on European Union.
It has been confirmed by the Council in drawing up the framework for strengthening the common European security and defence policy since the European Council in Cologne in June 1999 when this process was set in motion.
Instead, we received a report on the fact that the EU will act in accordance with the principles of the UN Charter.
It states that everything done with regard to the common European security and defence policy must be carried out in accordance with the principles of the UN Charter.
We also know that in a number of Member States, depending to some extent upon national tradition, various forms of reference to the UN Charter are required for the country to take part in an intervention.
European crisis management will be carried out in line with the principles of the UN Charter.
I believe that the regulations surrounding the common security and defence policy fully guarantee that all measures taken within the framework of that policy will be taken in line with the principles of the UN Charter.
This is sufficient for the Swedish Government, and it is clearly sufficient for all the other governments in the Council.
Mr President, I heard Mr Danielsson say that it would be difficult to be clearer than he had been in his answers.
Scandal or not, I can only assume that there is a fundamental difference of opinion.
Then there is a small group, of which we have heard a few representatives, which wants to try by all possible means to block this development towards stronger and more stable peace and security in and around our continent.
I feel safe in the knowledge that everything carried out within the framework of the common security and defence policy will be fully compliant with the principles of the UN Charter.
Question No 3 by (H-0031/01): Subject: European Parliament recommendation on the establishment of a civil peace corps On 17 January 2001, the European Parliament delivered its opinion on a proposal for creating an EU rapid reaction facility, pointing out that priority must be given to non-military crisis management and citing as a suitable way forward the recommendation it made to the Council in spring 1999 that a civil peace corps be established.
Conflict prevention and crisis management employing all civil and, if necessary, military instruments is an extremely important priority for the EU.
The Swedish Presidency is actively proceeding with the task assigned by the European Council in Nice.
In addition, the Swedish Presidency has clarified the fact that it is appropriate, as the EU' s civil crisis management continues to develop, also to establish other areas within the framework of civil crisis management in which EU resources may need to be developed or used more effectively.
Such areas may include expertise in democracy and human rights plus monitors and observers of various kinds.
All this work is moving in the same direction, and has the same aims, as the European Parliament' s recommendation on establishing a civil peace corps.
In that case, Parliament, having unanimously adopted this recommendation, will draw its own conclusions as to how the Council intends to work with Parliament.
Question No 4 by (H-0018/01): Subject: Turkey and military crisis management Does the Council consider it appropriate to include Turkey in cooperation on military crisis management when, at the same time, Turkey violates human rights in its own country, occupies the northern part of Cyprus and conducts offensive operations in northern Iraq?
Turkey was accepted as an applicant country at the European Council in Helsinki in December 1999.
Human rights in Turkey plus the Cyprus issue are therefore dealt with within the framework of the accession partnership with Turkey, about which the Council reached political agreement at its meeting on 4 December 2000.
In addition, in the conclusions from the European Council in Nice the EU reiterates the importance attached to being able to call on NATO' s funds and resources when necessary, in line with the Washington Summit Communiqué.
I found it particularly interesting to hear the Council' s representative mention the close link between NATO and the EU' s military crisis management cooperation.
I would also like to take this opportunity to express my extreme irritation with the answers which my Swedish Left Party colleagues received, namely that there should be only a small group to discuss UN mandates, neutrality, non-alignment and Turkish involvement in crisis management.
I also know that these issues are being discussed in all Member States.
I would therefore really appreciate it if the Council could generate some activity here and ensure that we can in some way help the European citizens, who genuinely become the victims of the bad handling of affairs between the European Union, the insurance companies and the Swiss insurance companies.
I can however promise, for my part, that when the Swiss President visits Stockholm on Friday I will refer to the debate we have just had and point out that this is a problem which has clearly attracted interest in the European Parliament.
And we shall, of course, be seeing the first real test of that kind of potential conflict on 6 March when Bernard Connelly' s case is heard at the European Court of Justice.
I am convinced that the end result of this process will be increased openness in the EU Institutions, thanks to a large extent to the serious work done by this House on operating in a spirit of openness.
I ask Members to try to formulate a question, even though they will of course argue their point; do not just make a statement or expound a doctrine to the Council, but ask a question instead, as the Rules of Procedure require.
Practical measures are carried out in cooperation with selected African states, for example, to prevent illegal immigration, by air or by sea, based on the decision of Schengen' s Executive Committee of 18 December 1998 on a coordinated initiative from the document advisers.
In addition to issues concerning the Schengen acquis, illegal immigration to the EU constitutes one of the major issues being dealt with by the Council, based on conclusions from several meetings of the European Council - Tampere, Feira and Nice to name but a few.
As the honourable Member no doubt knows, the European Council obliged the EU to intensify cooperation to combat trafficking in human beings following the tragic events in Dover last year.
After the conclusions from the European Council meetings, which emphasised the importance of controlling migration flows, the Council has discussed both operational measures and regulations for combating trafficking in human beings.
In this regard, the Council adopted resolutions on 30 November last year which contained various operational measures to combat illegal immigration, such as the exchange of information on observed migration flows, the optimisation of the early warning system, the transfer of information on illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings and the coordination of the network for Member State liaison officers in the countries in which the illegal immigration originates.
With regard to the basic causes of flight or migration from a number of African countries, we refer you to the action plan for Morocco which was approved by the Council on 11 October 1999 and of which Parliament is hopefully aware.
The message which the presidency wished to get across during this visit, which took place on 3 October last year, was that the action plan for Morocco was the result of work originally started by the Member States and the Commission and that it was now time to ask for the reactions of the Moroccan parties and to make the necessary adjustments of the action plan so that it could be implemented jointly.
The Council' s subordinate bodies are currently looking at a proposal from the Commission on this matter.
Mr Danielsson, I see this question as a political question, which it is; but most of all as a humanitarian question.
You have just mentioned the Dover tragedy, which all Europeans regret, but I must say - and I have direct experience of this problem, even though I do not live in southern Spain - that there in Andalusia and also sometimes in the Canary Islands we experience a Dover every week.
What is happening in southern Spain is much more serious than Dover, Mr Danielsson, and I believe it requires some interference, if I may use this expression.
I believe this question is so serious that it requires some special action.
I am grateful for your answer, which was otherwise full and informed, but I believe a far more serious intervention is needed.
Have a look at the photos that appear in the Spanish press (I am just finishing, Mr President), Mr Danielsson, and you will be shocked.
However, it is perhaps even more important to carry out preventive work, namely to work in the way that the Council has chosen to do in the case of Morocco.
You see, the Spanish Government, through the Civil Guard, has intercepted 133 leisure craft and 2 300 dinghies in five years, resulting in 203 immigrants dead, over 200 missing and 377 rescued, and I underline rescued, all coming from Morocco.
The Spanish Government, through the Civil Guard, has implemented an information system to prevent shipwrecks in the Straits, at a cost of 13 600 million pesetas, for which Spain has requested European Union funding.
The Spanish Government has pushed forward the Action Plan on Morocco, as mentioned by the Council representative, which this Parliament approved with a budget line of EUR 10 million.
I was the rapporteur for that plan.
However, it is not for the president of the Council to comment on efforts by individual Member States.
The answer to the honourable Member' s question is, therefore, that the Council has already started implementing the action plan.
As the honourable Member will, I am sure, understand, it is not possible for me to comment on a specific individual case.
Mr Nogueira, I am going to let you speak, but first listen to me as President of this sitting: it is not a matter of there being parliamentary debates between Members who ask questions quite legitimately and who naturally each argue their points according to the best of their knowledge and also according to their opinions and interests.
I simply wish to point out here, Mr President, that the country holding the presidency at the moment is Sweden and not representatives of the Spanish Government in this House, who should confine themselves to speaking as Members and not as representatives of that Government.
And as a representative of Spain, when reference is made in this question to the authorities of the Spanish state, I am within my legitimate rights to defend my country, something that others do not do.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 8 and 9 will be taken together.
Question No 8 by (H-0032/01): Subject: Women and Taliban fundamentalism What political measures is the European Union offering to women forced to endure the cruel Taliban regime?
Moreover, the catastrophic situation in respect of humanitarian circumstances and human rights in the country has led to massive emigration of refugees to neighbouring countries, particularly Iran and Pakistan, making it even more difficult to make an assessment of the population situation in Afghanistan.
The Council has often taken up the issue of the critical situation of the Afghan refugees with the host countries in the area and will continue to do so in future.
The recently updated common position of 25 January 2001 forms the basis of the Union' s policy in respect of Afghanistan.
In particular, the Union emphasises the importance of encouraging respect for international humanitarian law and human rights, including the rights of women and children.
The Union will therefore continue to call upon all parties to recognise, protect and promote all human rights and basic liberties and to respect the general declaration of human rights that Afghanistan has in fact signed.
The Union will continue to support the proposal by the Secretary-General of the UN for civil human rights observers and will also continue to support such aid programmes in Afghanistan as integrate equality issues and actively attempt to encourage the participation of both men and women on equal terms.
I can put it as brutally as today' s media: 120 children die of cold, barefoot, in temperatures fifteen degrees below zero; over 10 million, almost 11 million women survive without a right to health care, without a right to education, without a right to work, in subhuman conditions.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 will be taken together.
Question No 10 by (H-0040/01): Subject: Transport and integration What plans has the Transport Council for developing indicators and monitoring, implementing and creating a timetable for further measures for its strategy for integrating the environmental dimension into its policies as required by the Helsinki conclusions?
Question No 11 by (H-0041/01): Subject: Energy and integration What plans has the Energy Council for developing indicators and monitoring, implementing and creating a timetable for further measures for its strategy for integrating the environmental dimension into its policies as required by the Helsinki conclusions?
Question No 12 by (H-0042/01): Subject: General affairs and integration What plans has the General Affairs Council for developing a comprehensive strategy for integrating the environmental dimension into its policies, with a set of indicators, a timetable for further measures and follow-up and monitoring as required by the Helsinki conclusions?
Question No 13 by (H-0043/01): Subject: ECOFIN and integration What plans has the Economic and Financial Affairs Council for developing a comprehensive strategy for integrating the environmental dimension into its policies, with a set of indicators, a timetable for further measures and follow-up and monitoring as required by the Helsinki conclusions?
Question No 14 by (H-0044/01): Subject: Parliament and integration process How will the European Parliament be consulted about the comprehensive strategies being developed by nine Councils for integrating the environmental dimension into their policies as required by the Helsinki conclusions?
Question No 15 by (H-0045/01): Subject: Coherence of integration plans How is the Council ensuring coherence between the comprehensive strategies being developed by nine Councils for integrating the environmental dimension into their policies?
The Council is pleased to tell MEPs that the environmental protection requirements under article 6 of the EC Treaty are to be integrated into the elaboration and implementation of the Community' s policies and activities, particularly with a view to encouraging sustainable development.
The strategies for incorporating environmental dimensions into the Council' s activities will be established ahead of the European Council meeting in Gothenburg in June of this year.
In December 1999 in Helsinki, the Council established the timetable for the European Council in Gothenburg and called upon the Council to complete its work on incorporating the environmental dimensions into all the Council' s activities by producing overall strategies, if possible accompanied by a timetable for the measures to be taken and a set of indicators for the sectors concerned.
The participation of Parliament will be ensured in accordance with the provisions of the treaty.
A number of measures are to commence within the framework of the action plan for increased energy efficiency based on the priorities established by the Council at its meeting on 5 December 2000.
Where the industrial side of this overall strategy is concerned, the Council would remind MEPs that, in the report to the European Council in Helsinki, it was emphasised that a strong contribution was required from the industrial sector in order to strengthen sustainable development in the economic area.
The horizontal nature of this issue calls for better cooperation and exchange of information between all the parties and decision-makers concerned.
To show, through a concrete measure, the extent to which the Council is attempting to maximise the integrated strategy when it comes to environmental matters, the Council intends to draw up certain conclusions at the Council meeting in May at which both energy and industry ministers will gather together in order to take this work further.
Finally, as far as economic and financial matters are concerned, the Council wishes to inform MEPs that, at the European Council summit in Nice, the Council submitted an initial report concerning how environmental dimensions can be integrated into the economic policy of the Union and its Member States.
Given the momentum of the Cardiff process and the fact that this is all beginning to happen now, it is going to be quite a lengthy process and is not going to happen overnight.
As I mentioned, we in the Swedish Presidency - in close cooperation with the Commission - are currently involved in work in which we are preparing the conclusions of the European Council meeting in Gothenburg in June.
The Cardiff process, as it is known, is a new way of working as far as the European Union is concerned.
I expect that, in good time before the European Council summit in June of this year, we will be able to come back to this House with a more concrete account of the thoughts that the Council has and in order to listen to the viewpoints that Parliament and its Members may have.
Mr President-in-Office, thank you for your reply.
In fact, I am very worried about how this process is to move forward.
The question should therefore, in the first instance, be put to the Members of the Commission.
However, since the question is nevertheless such an important part of the Swedish Presidency, I cannot refrain from nonetheless giving the viewpoints of the Swedish Presidency concerning the components that the strategy for sustainable development should include.
I believe it is incredibly important that, in the strategy which we hope will be adopted in Gothenburg, we will clearly include three elements that should form part of the concept of sustainable development.
We know that two of these elements, namely socially sustainable development and economically sustainable development, will be discussed as early as the Stockholm Summit.
We intend to supplement the discussion in Stockholm of these two elements with ecologically sustainable development, so to speak, and then make this into a common strategy that can be adopted at the Gothenburg Summit.
We have every confidence in the Commission' s ability to produce a strategy for sustainable development that makes Europe become even greener.
I refer to the Transport Council and in particular to the latest report on the concrete implementation of the strategy, which showed a distinct lack of progress on many fronts in the transport field.
Such measures are essential if transport is to be fully taken into account in the enlargement process which, it is to be hoped, will result in environmentally sustainable policies.
It is after all not just E for 'environment' that is a priority task of the Swedish Presidency, but also - as the honourable Member is surely aware - E for 'enlargement' .
These negotiations are based in the first instance on the existing common regulations, but this still leaves us opportunity to point out to the applicant countries the important issues concerning sustainable development that the Council is in the process of discussing, in this case in the area of transport.
The principles are thus discussed in conjunction with the negotiations with each applicant country on the transport chapter.
Mr President, this question of sustainability is indeed of great interest and the priority of the Swedish Presidency is welcome.
But what our citizens want to know is what is the Council planning to do to ensure the public dissemination of the results of the Cardiff process to all citizens and governments of Member States and accession countries?
I know that the Swedish Presidency wants to change that and involve citizens more extensively and be more transparent.
The honourable Member has put three very extensive questions.
Question No 17 by (H-0050/01): Subject: Inadequate enforcement of animal protection in Europe Yet again the media reports maltreatment of animals in the Member States.
The report was presented on 6 December last year and has already, after having been dealt with both at working party level and in a meeting with the chief veterinary officers, been discussed by the ministers responsible.
However, initiatives can be taken in the matter of work in progress.
In this context, I would like us to review the agricultural policy as such.
Question No 18 by (H-0054/01): Subject: Radioactive pollution of the Aegean and Ionian Seas According to reports in the Greek press, as well as in the Turkish press, according to 'Le Journal du Dimanche', depleted uranium shells have been used by the Greek and the Turkish navies in exercises in the Aegean and the Ionian Seas for the last ten years.
Mr President-in-Office, I should like to hear your views on cooperation between this Member State and the institutions and what you think the European Commission could do.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Council has elapsed, questions that have not been given an answer will receive one in writing, with the exception of Questions Nos 28, 30, 40, 42, 43 and 44, which were submitted too late according to the Council, and Question No 32, which has been withdrawn by its author.
On 23 December 1986, the Commission presented the proposal concerning a directive on the winding-up and reorganisation of insurance undertakings to Parliament, and the proposal was adopted.
The directive was to spend the next eleven years on a shelf at the Council of Ministers.
Two stumbling blocks were mainly to blame for this: in the first instance, the Gibraltar issue and the territorial implications this had, and secondly, the connection between Articles 10 and 11.
This directive has the same goal as the proposal on the winding-up and reorganisation of credit institutions, namely the mutual recognition of legislation.
This directive guarantees that insurance undertakings are wound up or reorganised according to the principles of unity and universality.
The directive must ensure that creditors are treated equally.
In contrast to the second reading of the reorganisation and winding-up of credit institutions, this directive is more consistent and is structured in a logical manner, in my opinion.
I would therefore recommend my fellow MEPs to adopt the Council' s common position without any amendments.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Peijs, I would first like to wholeheartedly thank the rapporteur for her work and for her clear explanations, which once again spelt out to us what this directive is all about.
The common position has succeeded in bringing the rights of insurance undertakings into line with the legitimate interests of creditors.
The Council' s common position, which has been submitted for consideration to Parliament, is fully consistent with the essential objectives pursued in the Commission's original and amended proposals.
They recommend that the text of the common position be kept as it is without any amendment.
They have considered that the objectives pursued in this area have been duly preserved through the common position.
The Commission invites the plenary to follow the recommendation of the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee and to approve without amendments the entire text of the common position.
The debate is closed.
The vote, if any, will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I wish to take this opportunity to say that there is a serious mistake in the report, in item No 9 of the explanatory statement, where it says, in repeating this principle, 'one system, two countries' .
As a Portuguese citizen and having enjoyed direct constitutional responsibility for Macau, I must state that Macau' s handover from Portuguese administration to the Chinese was done consensually and with enormous goodwill under the terms of the 1987 Joint Sino-Portuguese Declaration, which is still in force today and which will remain so for the next fifty years.
This last year has also been peaceful and consensual, according to first-hand information that I have received from various sources and, in particular, from the Portuguese and Macanese who still live and work there.
Despite the fact that there have been, and still are, minor and inevitable problems with this integration in the case of Hong Kong, a much larger, more populous and richer territory than Macau, albeit with a much more recent past, it is widely known that the these two territories have, by and large, enjoyed a relatively smooth transition.
Relations between Hong Kong and Macau are and have always been excellent.
It is worth bearing in mind, and I shall take this opportunity to remind Parliament, that every territory has its peculiarities.
Under the terms of the Joint Sino-Portuguese Declaration, the People's Republic of China made a commitment to respecting the economic system and the political and legal system instituted by Portugal when it established the Special Administrative Region of Macau for the next 50 years.
In principle, the European Union is supposed to appoint its own permanent representative in Macau.
This is important and I believe that it has already been done.
Portugal left Macau with a complete, western-style democratic legal system, with political institutions that function well, with a Chief Executive appointed by Beijing replacing the former Portuguese Governor, with a Legislative Assembly of 23 members, independent courts and a Court of Final Appeal as well as an efficient police force.
Portugal enjoys excellent relations with the People' s Republic of China, as I said, and continues to have a considerable presence in Macau through its investors and businesses and in the civil service and the liberal professions.
There is a Portuguese high school in Macau which is thriving and where Portuguese continues to be taught.
Macau can and must retain its importance for the European Union as a centre for business and investment, not only in the territory itself, but also for the business that is traditionally entered into there with China and with other Asian countries.
Because Macau is a Special Administrative Region with its own cultural identity and a population that is mixed, although largely Chinese, the European Union can only gain by maintaining a presence there, for both of these reasons.
I must therefore insist that the European Union sends a permanent representative to Macau and that we step up economic, political and cultural relations between the European Union and Macau.
The European Union must not lose interest in Macau, because what happens over the next 50 years in this territory, which is under special jurisdiction, depends to a certain extent on the vigilance with which the European Union watches over Macau.
There even appear to be signs of changes to electoral law and to certain aspects of public administration and the classification of civil servants, the health system and higher education.
Nevertheless, the Soares report reiterates the need for the statute and the legal framework adopted for Macau to be fully respected, both with regard to fundamental rights and to the other rights and principles of democratic law that stem from the Joint Sino-Chinese Declaration of 1987 and the Basic Law of 1993, the thrust of which it would be useful to summarise.
As for my second reason, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is intended to mark an important point in the debate on this report, because in addition to being a long-standing member of this House, the rapporteur is a former President of one of the Member States of the European Union with a history that honours us all, not only the members of his party or his compatriots, but all Europeans.
It is worth highlighting that it is not only the contribution he has made in this document but also the active and resolute way in which he has always fought and continues to fight in this House to defend the highest values of the European project itself.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Macau is a unique case, a case which is culturally specific and pivotal in the historic relationship between Europe and China through the intermediary of Portugal.
We feel that preserving and valuing these links under the new framework initiated in December 1999 is a highly appropriate proposal.
Looking around the Chamber, one might think this was a Portuguese debate, but what I wish to state once again is that the 1999 handover also marked the fact that Macau became a European issue of the first order.
We are all perfectly familiar with the reasons why we must maintain and improve bilateral cooperation with the new Special Administrative Region and it is not worth repeating them now.
As Parliament's rapporteur on Hong Kong, the current status of the Macau Special Administrative Region holds obvious interest to me, and I have been fortunate enough to visit the region twice within the last year.
On the positive side, Macau's economy has progressed significantly since the handover, enjoying a 4% growth in GDP during the year 2000.
Another positive development is Edmond Ho Hau-Wah's stated intention of breaking up the casino monopoly and aiming to create an Asian equivalent of Atlantic City.
Macau does boast a sound education system but its economic dependence on gambling and textiles, and its failure to attract high-tech industries do not augur well for the future employment prospects of the young population.
Other worrying developments are the claims of police brutality made by Falangong practitioners who were refused entry to Macau during the visit of President Jiang and who were also denied the right to protest against the government's crackdown on the group.
However, it is imperative, as also with Hong Kong, to continue monitoring to ensure that there is no erosion of democracy, human rights and freedoms.
I am happy to note that Parliament and the Commission have reached similar overall conclusions on how to approach the future for Macao.
I welcome the positive developments that have occurred in the Macao special administrative region (SAR) over the past year since the handover.
In the first year since the handover, Macao has established the required administrative institutions and adjusted to the new situation.
The government, the legislative council and the judiciary have all made impressive efforts to adapt to the new situation.
On our side, we will support their correct implementation where possible, including through our cooperation programme and particularly our legal cooperation project.
We share the view of the importance of the 1993 EU-Macao Trade and Cooperation Agreement remaining in force to strengthen relations.
We will be supporting efforts to position the EU better in Macao by encouraging more investment by European companies and by helping Macau diversify its economic base when the time is right.
Economic growth was positive, reaching 4% for the first time since 1996.
The European Parliament report and the resolution call for a dynamic approach in the activities of the EU-Macao Joint Committee.
I can report that EU-Macao relations remain extremely good.
The Joint Committee held its annual meeting in Brussels on 30 June 2000.
They also discussed ways to improve and strengthen bilateral links, including through cooperation and trade and economic relations based on the recommendations of the Commission communication.
As I have already mentioned, we attach great importance to maintaining the rights, freedoms and democratic principles of Macao and its people.
I can assure Parliament that the Commission will continue to maintain an active watch on events in Macao, especially those regarding democratic principles and human rights.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
From a European perspective, the EU/Mexico agreement is generally seen as a milestone in the forthcoming relations with Latin American countries.
It has the largest scope of any agreement the EU has ever concluded with a third country, providing EC operators with more rapid preferential treatment than Mexico has ever before granted to any of its preferential partners.
However, I believe that some of these gains for the EU are being made at the expense of the people of Mexico.
On the one hand, it is a member of the OECD and thus is considered to be one of the industrialised countries; but, on the other hand, it is a country with 95 million inhabitants where well over half the population - 65% - live in poverty.
I will outline some of these in a moment.
Indeed the liberalisation covers very nearly all sectors.
So its terms and scope are very far-reaching.
But, more worryingly, it contains a stand-still clause which, by prohibiting Mexico from introducing any further standards and conditions in the future, could seriously damage the social and economic development and policy autonomy of this country.
Furthermore the agreement states that: "no mode of supply is a priori excluded from coverage".
If that implies that education and health might be covered without safeguards, this is an area of further concern.
I am sure Members will recall that in the European Parliament in 1999, in our response to the approach to the Millennium Round, we made a specific demand that health and education be excluded from the revision of the GATS.
It would therefore be inconsistent to include education and health in the EU/Mexico agreement as sectors that could be liberalised.
Finally, Mexican civil society groups believe that the Mexican negotiators went beyond their powers in making this agreement, since the agreement establishes the powers of the Joint Council to dismantle Mexican trade and services legislation, which clearly should be within the remit of the legislative power.
Parliament should support civil society in Mexico, which is asking for this unconstitutional provision to be changed.
On investment, the different economic crashes we have seen in Mexico make investment a particularly sensitive issue.
I could go on citing more problems that we can see in the area of intellectual property rights, on conflict resolution and, indeed, on human rights.
But to conclude in terms of where we need to go now, we need to have a clear statement from the Commissioner about the agenda of the Joint Council meeting on 27 February.
I would like to know from the Commissioner present if and when we will get the agenda of this meeting, if he is going to include the kinds of issues that I have raised in my speech - and also in the report itself - and when we will get the results of that meeting of 27 February.
The Joint Council meeting must include the competences of the Joint Council along with the Mexican constitution, ensuring their compatibility.
It must include effective monitoring of human rights.
It must include a commitment to coherence and compatibility of trade measures and it must ensure that the European Parliament is closely associated with this agreement in all its future changes.
Mr President, before I begin my intervention on this report, I should like to ask that it be recorded in the Minutes that in accordance with Rule 161 of the Rules of Procedure the explanatory statement in the report under discussion is the responsibility of the rapporteur alone and only reflects her personal opinion, not the opinion of the Committee on Industry.
The Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement, also known as the Global Agreement, was signed in December 1997.
Therefore, the Commission proposal on which Parliament has been consulted must be considered in the context of the Global Agreement signed by the European Union and Mexico - the most important agreement the European Union has ever signed, I think it is worth remembering.
With regard to the proposal for a decision with which we are concerned and the agreements it deals with, my Group sees them as being very positive because they strengthen the possibility for Community operators to act in spheres of particular interest by guaranteeing them access to the Mexican market on equal or even better terms than those enjoyed by NAFTA countries in the area of services, investments, payments and respect for intellectual property rights, with the resulting benefits and legal guarantee that all this may bring to the European Union.
These considerations by themselves would justify the unreserved approval of the proposal for a decision by my Group and, I hope, by this Parliament as well.
Mr President, as chairman of Parliament' s Delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico, I wish to congratulate the participants on concluding the final stage of one of the most ambitious projects the European Union has ever undertaken.
I should also like to take advantage of the presence of the Mexican Ambassador to the European Union, the diplomat, Jaime Zabludovsky, to congratulate him on his active contribution to this agreement.
To this extent, I wish to emphasise that, in addition to the mechanisms that have been established in the fields of political cooperation and trade, an instrument has also been created to boost and further cooperation in more than thirty different areas.
Almost three years have passed since Parliament delivered a favourable opinion on the interim agreement between the European Union and Mexico.
I should also like to convey to the new leaders of the Mexican administration my sincerest hope that they will continue in the current direction and repay the trust that the Mexican people has invested in them.
Mr President, I should also like to express our solidarity with the people of El Salvador, who have, once again, fallen victim to a natural disaster.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, as the Nicaraguan writer Sergio Ramírez has pointed out, the political map of Latin America can be interpreted today by means of some diverse and highly contrasting landmarks.
But this agreement, like everything else in life, can be improved.
We understand of course that the agreement is a trading issue, but we feel there is a lack of concrete measures on the development of Mexico, our sister country.
The observations and recommendations on democratic transparency in matters as delicate as services, investment, intellectual property and conflict resolution are made out of respect for Parliament, the Mexican people and the Constitution of that country, and are also aimed at preventing any damaging effects on Mexican society.
On another level I must highlight the observations of the rapporteur that there is an increased sensitivity amongst Members of Parliament about who makes the decisions on trade: whether it is the Council or the Commission.
That is to say that I would not be content if the power was vested elsewhere in the EU, because the greatest sensitivity is that we as a country are having trade agreements affecting the UK negotiated and finalised by a third party, which may or may not be entirely in our national interests.
In this regard, I should just like to recall that on 20 May 2000 the Mexican Parliament approved this cooperation by 89 votes to 11 with two abstentions.
The same figures apply to the approval of the commercial decisions of the Joint Council for the Interim Agreement and also those of the Joint Council for the Global Agreement.
On another subject, with regard to human rights, it should be remembered that Mexico has signed more than 50 international treaties on human and workers' rights, including many of those mentioned in the report on the table.
Mr President, it has already been said that our group will approve the Council proposal.
Mexico is an important country.
Implementing the Mexico agreement therefore serves a pilot function.
As far as our foreign trade policy is concerned, this will improve our trading situation in Mexico.
I would therefore very much welcome it if, for instance, the newly elected President of Mexico were to pay a visit to Europe in the not too distant future, and perhaps speak to us here in this Chamber, and if European heads of state were to visit Mexico.
Mexico is the European Union's most important trading partner in Latin America after Brazil, and I am particularly proud that Europe has reached a result that goes beyond NAFTA privileges in a number of areas which are good for Europe but also good for Mexico.
We consider this agreement a milestone in future relations with Latin American countries.
In the context of today's debate, the European Liberals would like particularly to stress the importance of the standard human rights clause in this agreement, especially respect for democratic principles and fundamental human rights.
Our main hope is that the opening up of the Mexican economy will contribute towards economic and social development in Chiapas.
We declare our willingness to start this process and I hope that the march of Marcos on Mexico City will mean a breakthrough in peace.
This explicit request is tied in closely with the promising initiatives which the new Mexican President, Vincente Fox, is currently developing.
These are efforts which are clearly aimed at supporting neglected population groups, in the first place the country' s very extensive Indian community, by investments and considerable regional autonomy.
A courageous goal in the face of huge resistance, both politically and socially.
In short, wider market access and an improvement of the Mexican position in the world economy requires an approach which is more humanitarian than one-dimensional liberalisation.
It reminds me of the deficits which the European Union has itself towards its own citizens due to a lack of democratic legitimisation.
The second point which, in my opinion, should not be forgotten is that Mexico is not only an important trading partner for the European Union but, in the mid 1990s, went through what the then President of the International Monetary Fund, Michel Camdessus, called the first financial crisis of the twenty-first century.
From my own perspective, I would even prefer to go in the direction of the Bretton Wood system.
Mr President, the agreement with Mexico is in fact a milestone in our relations with the countries of Latin America.
It has a larger area of application than any previous agreement between the European Union and a third country.
Mr President, Mr Seguro mentioned at the end of his contribution the terrible situation in El Salvador.
I would like to take this opportunity to inform Parliament that today I have decided to release another EUR 5 to 8 million to support people in El Salvador.
This agreement, which consists of a free trade area, political dialogue and cooperation provisions reinforces Mexico's existing relations with Europe.
Due to the very complex distribution of competence between the Community and its Member States, the free trade agreement is made up of two separate legal texts.
The second text covers the remaining areas - services, investment and intellectual property - and should be adopted by the Joint Council on 27 February 2001.
Firstly by including a stand-still clause which prevents both parties from introducing new discriminatory measures or reinforcing the existing ones.
Moreover the text includes measures concerning investments and related payments which complete the undertakings already made by both parties at the OECD and through bilateral agreements signed between Mexico and most of the Member States.
The European Parliament has been invited to give its opinion on this second decision.
Once this decision is adopted by the Joint Council on 27 February 2001, the free trade agreement will be fully in place.
Mexico is traditionally one of the EU's most important trading partners in Latin America with a significant growth potential, and the EU is Mexico's second trading partner after the US.
The achievement of the free trade agreement will provide EC operators with access to the Mexican market similar to NAFTA.
Apart from trade, we should make full use of this comprehensive agreement to further deepen our already excellent bilateral relations with Mexico.
The institutionalised high level political dialogue will provide a good tool to agree on common positions, on issues of mutual interest: for instance, UN reform, efforts to launch a new WTO round and the human rights situation of both parties.
The agreement will provide us with new possibilities for cooperation on the basis of the guidelines laid down for the period 2000-2006, whether on strengthening the rule of law, judicial reform, tackling poverty or investing in human resources.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in August 2000, two initiatives were put forward by the then French Council Presidency to combat criminal networks trading in human beings and to take appropriate preventive measures.
But before that, a great many refugees had to die as victims of these criminal networks trading in human beings.
The Council Directive defining the facilitation of illegal immigration and unauthorised residence defines a statutory framework to prevent the facilitation of unauthorised entry and residence by criminal networks trading in human beings.
The second initiative is a Council Framework Decision on the strengthening of the penal framework to combat the facilitation of unauthorised entry and residence and hence to prevent the exploitation of refugees.
I am pleased that my proposed amendments were backed by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
Now we no longer have two restrictive proposals but two proposals which can deal differently with the different target groups.
The text of the French initiative did not distinguish between individual and organised facilitation or between commercial and moral facilitation.
I very much regret that the PPE-DE is not prepared to back this report.
Mr President, when I left the House of Commons in the United Kingdom in 1997 I thought I had got away from debates that took place after 10 p.m.
I am also interested to note that in the United Kingdom debates now seem to have been truncated into times that are well before 10 p.m.
The balance of power, in that sense, has certainly shifted.
This does not imply that humanitarian organisations should refrain from aiding such people after their proper entry into a Member State - I would very much support that continuing, and certainly being a feature in future - but rather that they have no more right to participate in any illegal act, in our view, than anyone else.
In this context it also has to be stressed that illegal immigrants whose entry is assisted by traffickers should surely be no more immune to prosecution than other illegal immigrants.
Improving the legal status of refugees, as stated in Amendment No 2, is not, to my knowledge, part of any common immigration and asylum policy.
An increase in the EU budget surely requires more justification than is shown.
It is always important to distinguish between asylum and immigration: those are two separate issues, the latter of which is covered by the 1951 Geneva Convention.
We merely regret that this report has appeared before its time and is unacceptable.
I should first like to congratulate my colleague Mr Ceyhun for the work he has done and his efforts to cover all the sensitive issues surrounding these two initiatives.
Secondly, I must stress to this House something which is an absolute priority for the future of the European Union, our society and the political project we are constructing from here.
I should like to reiterate a number of issues that this House and the Council must take clearly into account when making future decisions.
It is also important to distinguish clearly between those who benefit directly and actively from illegal immigration, such as those who organise and take part in the transport of illegal immigrants, and on the other hand the passive and indirect beneficiaries, who are the ones who profit from the work of illegal immigrants.
Mr President, we all remember with horror the container containing 58 dead Chinese people that was found at Dover last summer.
Despite fine declarations of global responsibility, the EU Member States have not been able to agree on a common asylum and immigration policy.
Is it really possible to get into the EU by lawful means when we require visas from 130 countries?
The report written by the rapporteur is an important modification of the French proposal, because he attempts to see the nuances.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the issue of immigration crosses all areas in our European societies, from the situation of legal immigrants to that of illegal immigrants, from the right of asylum to the right of freedom of movement, from socio-economic and cultural rights to political rights.
In the majority of EU States, figures on the granting of refugee status and traditional immigration channels are falling systematically.
The solutions laid down in the proposed initiatives replicate these repressive measures and grounds for exclusion.
It is only possible to combat illegal immigration within the framework of an overall Community policy that is clear and that respects the dignity of human beings based on genuine respect for fundamental rights and based on a new North-South relationship.
Mr President, the policy pursued by many Member States and, to an ever greater degree, by the EU too in this area gives us all a direct share of responsibility for the corpses at Dover and for the bodies washed up on the Spanish coast.
The present project will lead to there being fewer humanitarians and more mafiosi involved in the trafficking in human beings and in helping to transport refugees.
Above all, we shall support the proposals completely to reject this move, and my group will vote very differently in the final vote on the report.
The fundamental reason for this is one that affects these and all initiatives dealing with the framework of criminal legislation in the Union.
The only line on which European integration policy is advancing rapidly is that of repression, because that is easy.
Decisions are prepared by groups of civil servants from the Ministries of Justice and Home Affairs, whose only concern is the efficiency of the repression mechanisms, without any consideration - it is not their fault, that is their craft, their professional approach - or concern for issues arising from society, the economy, work, international policy or development.
As to the merit of the argument - as Mrs Boumediene-Thiery and Mrs Frahm have said - it is an illusion to imagine that strengthening the ban on immigration produces anything other than a strengthening of illegal immigration and the forces of illegality overwhelming us.
Mr President, I consider the two initiatives by the French Republic seeking to better define and strengthen penal sanctions against assisting the illegal entry of aliens into European territory to be particularly welcome.
A good indication of this is the increase in the number of asylum requests, which have virtually doubled in the last three years in the main European countries, even though approximately three quarters of these are rejected as unjustified, thereby greatly increasing the number of immigrants illegally resident on our territory.
According to the United Nations Organisation, even within Europe some half a million people from this illegal staff pool are reduced to slavery, mostly women and children, who are victims of sexual or economic exploitation.
This situation is a source of shame for Europe and I must say that I am shocked when I read the Commission communication of 22 November 2000 on the Community immigration policy to find that it includes only one tiny paragraph, and a vague one at that, on illegal immigration.
I am shocked, too, to see that the Commission' s first practical proposal in application of this policy was for a particularly lenient draft directive on family reunion.
For, after the French Presidency, which made the fight against illegal immigration one of its priorities, we now have the British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, and his Italian counterpart, Giuliano Amato, sounding the alarm and demanding an action plan to combat such trafficking.
We must, incidentally, note our approval of Article 67(1) of the Treaty of Amsterdam which, amid some more unfortunate provisions, had the wisdom to retain Member States' right of initiative in parallel with the Commission' s, even in those aspects of immigration policy which it sought to communitise.
I believe that it would be a good idea for its agenda to include a proposal for extending the duration and scope of States' right of initiative.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our starting point is based on the need to combat illegal immigration and, in particular, the resulting forms of exploitation.
The situation has been exacerbated, not only because it has proved to be extremely lucrative and less risky than other forms of trafficking, such as drugs trafficking, for example, but also because this activity actually benefits from shortcomings in the legislation and action of Member States and from all the factors that allow illegal immigrants to enter and remain in these countries.
Tragic events such as the one that took place in Dover last June or those that have come to light following the successful 'Cathedral' police operation are situations that no democratic society can tolerate.
The Member States must have a common immigration and asylum policy that is appropriate to their demographic, economic and humanitarian needs.
It is a very difficult jigsaw that we are trying to put together.
We know, and others have said, that people escaping from these situations are desperate people escaping conflict, war and circumstances like that.
We must do more to help those developing countries and help the countries that are war-torn and with regimes that we do not like.
It is becoming increasingly clear that turning Europe into a fortress, by reinforcing its borders and intensifying repressive measures, will not reduce migratory pressures as long as the prosperity differential between the European Union and its neighbours persists or increases.
Finally, I should like to say that any initiatives along these lines must be incorporated as quickly as possible into an integrated European immigration policy, which will have legal channels and, more importantly, which will guarantee the legalisation and social integration of those already living in the European Union.
This is a despicable traffic, which causes so much harm and even tragedy amongst the immigrants themselves and great concern within the European Union, a concern sometimes greater than that seen in some of these immigrants' countries of origin, although it is a hard thing to say.
We must therefore receive the two French initiatives with satisfaction.
Finally, in any case, I believe that in this battle against illegal immigration the cooperation of the countries of origin is absolutely necessary, since without it any attempt to combat these criminal networks is doomed to failure.
Mr President, last week in Stockholm the Council asked for the Tampere agenda to be revitalised.
I do not understand why they have not been able to revitalise and fulfil it over all these months.
I do not understand why the Council does not go after some coherent political proposals, which follow one behind the other in pursuit of the clear objectives of creating a common, coherent and global immigration policy and asylum policy in the European Union, instead of advancing piecemeal on absolutely specific and partial topics which throw this policy off balance and make it increasingly difficult to make progress on the Tampere agenda.
Seeing that in the Council the ministers have also decided - paradoxically in my view - to support this French proposal, and it should be either discussed immediately or moved on, my Group will in any case try to send them the clear message that we in the European Union must not confuse compassion, the work of some people in the front line helping immigrants, with the traffic in people.
If we succeed, we shall vote in favour of this report and we shall try to send this message to the Council.
These two protocols were signed by 81 States at the High Level Conference in Palermo last December.
The European Union is, therefore, able to demonstrate its contribution to a worldwide fight against the trafficking of human beings.
Various speakers reminded us just now that, following the Dover tragedy last June, the Feira European Council called for measures to be adopted to combat illegal immigration and the trafficking of human beings.
For example, our immigration policy does contain a security component.
This component cannot be the main one, or exclusive, but we cannot ignore the fact that the trafficking of human beings is a serious problem, that also requires security measures.
Similarly, just as we agreed to discuss the French initiative, in which security features very prominently, the Commission has already initiated a discussion in the Council on a proposal for a communication on a European asylum system and a communication on legal immigration, in other words, on the rights and duties of third-country nationals who are allowed to enter the Union legally.
We feel that the French initiative must be completely underpinned, notwithstanding its reference to aggravating circumstances, by a legal basis under the first pillar, such as the Treaty establishing the European Community, Article 63(3)(b).
This is the only way it will be possible to distinguish clearly between humanitarian assistance under international commitments, specifically respect for the Geneva Convention, and the trafficking of human beings which is punishable by law.
I hope that the conclusions of the informal Stockholm Council meeting last week will enable us, at the Laeken European Council, to take stock of this debate on a common immigration policy and on a European asylum system which respect our international obligations and which guarantee the stability and security of the Union' s Member States.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.20 p.m.)
