European Agency for Reconstruction (debate) The next item is the report by Jelko Kacin, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 on the European Agency for Reconstruction - C6-0170/2006 -.
Mr President, Honourable Members, I would like to thank Mr Kacin very much for the positive assessment of our proposal in his report.
The Director-General of DG Enlargement has created a Task Force at director level to monitor and steer this process.
The Agency was founded in 2000 as the principal EU office for reconstruction in war-ravaged Kosovo.
Equally, the Commission must adopt specific plans to expand the delegations in response to the break-up of the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro and to expand the delegations in the light of the future status of Kosovo when that becomes reality.
I should like to ask the Commissioner to do his utmost in the coming months, at a time when the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo will be precarious, and also to join together with Parliament - and the Council, too, I hope - to guarantee the stability of this region.
To pass on the responsibilities of this agency to delegations and agencies of the Commission in 2009 is a radical step.
This role was strengthened in particular - or I would say legalised - by the decisions taken by the European Council in Thessaloniki in June 2003 to support the European prospects of the Balkans, which support we need to constantly renew with deeds and decisions.
Member of the Commission. (SV) Mr President, honourable Members, I would thank Parliament for supporting the Commission's decision gradually to phase out the European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR) by allowing the Agency to discontinue its activities under the CARDS Programme.
Where Montenegro and Kosovo are concerned, the Commission is in the process of planning a well-structured delegation in Podgorica, Montenegro and a possible upgrading of our liaison office in Priština.
Mr President, I would thank Parliament for its support for our stabilisation and integration policy in the Western Balkans.
