Last night I informed him that Parliament understood perfectly well that the crisis created in Palestine obliged him to return to his country to take control of the situation.
Mr Abbas represents the majority of Palestinians who still support a negotiated solution to the conflict with Israel despite all of the suffering and all of the disappointments they have been through.
He represents those people who, despite everything, still believe that it is possible to find a solution by peaceful means.
He is a man who has been trying to achieve peace through negotiations since the seventies and his presence here amongst us today would therefore have been a golden opportunity to support his approach; another opportunity missed as a result of an unnecessary and illegal military operation and the violence that it has caused.
The violence that has followed this military action is extremely worrying.
As you know, the news this morning confirms that there are three western hostages, including two European citizens − two French citizens.
Last night, before Mr Abbas left for the airport, I visited him in his hotel and he told me of the efforts he had been making during the day to stop this military operation and to prevent the spiral of violence before it became uncontrollable.
The European Union staff who were controlling the border between Gaza and Egypt have also had security problems.
Furthermore, I must inform you that President Abbas has promised to return to Strasbourg and to speak to the European Parliament as soon as he can: probably during the next part-session in April.
Some of them have asked to do so.
However, we must demand an investigation into the storming of the prison in Jericho.
The Israelis have the same status as the Palestinians, and the Palestinians have the same status as the Israelis.
I am convinced that, despite the pictures we have seen on television, the majority of people in both Israel and Palestine want to live peacefully.
Our group supports anything that can help bring peace to the Middle East.
We very much hope – as you said, Mr&#160;President – that the time will soon come when the President of the Palestinian Authority, Mr&#160;Abbas, can make his speech to the European Parliament.
We particularly regret that Mahmoud Abbas is unable to speak to us.
In so doing, we were providing a situation in which – as Mr&#160;Poettering just said – we are working together step by step towards a Palestinian state, by giving Mr&#160;Abbas his due, namely the future leadership of a state, representing his country in the region as an equal partner on the basis of full sovereignty.
That must be our aim.
The answers we are currently getting from the Israeli media are not adequate.
Thirdly, I hope that this action was not motivated by any internal political reasons in Israel.
This House should not underestimate the risk of a wider conflagration in the Middle East.
The tragic events of 9/11 and the equally tragic response have seriously threatened the chances for continued peace in our world.
Just as European Union diplomacy with Iran is being undermined by George Bush riding roughshod over the Non-Proliferation Treaty in his dealings with India, so our diplomacy on the Middle East is being jeopardised by the actions of Israel yesterday.
I hope that the European Union, through the Council and Commission, will protest in the strongest terms to the Israeli Government about these actions.
Unilateral policies like the ones currently being pursued in that region lead to catastrophe, and by that I mean the unilateral policies of both sides.
Unilateral mutual contempt leads to a dehumanisation of action.
In principle, we in the European Union, the Council, the Commission and Mr&#160;Solana must insist on one thing: there must be no more unilateral politics.
If both sides believe that their legitimate position can give them a universally valid right to action, allowing them not to talk to each other and to hold each other in contempt, then the international community must put an end to it.
The worst aspect of this affair is that the future of this region is being sacrificed for an election.
The prison in Jericho was no longer a prison.
However, Israel does not have the right to storm an institution just because something is not right.
Indeed, he considered that his country could be placed in an extremely serious situation by this new and, as you rightly pointed out, deliberately humiliating escalation in Israeli violence and its inevitable consequences, all of which, like the kidnappings, were totally unacceptable, as well as being, however, unavoidable and foreseeable.
It is that agreement that Israel has flagrantly violated, despite there not having been any problems at all in the prison for four years.
If, moreover – and I would address Mr&#160;Cohn-Bendit now - Israel had thought that there was a problem, President Abbas had proposed to the Israeli Government that the prisoners be transferred to Moukata under proper, indeed international, surveillance.
We now have to ask ourselves the following question: given the results of this policy, are we going to continue blithely to look on while this new blow to peace progressively weakens the position of those Palestinians most committed to peaceful solutions including, in the first place, President Mahmoud Abbas?
An attack on a prison and on political prisoners is never regarded as acceptable anywhere, nor has it ever been in history.
Even political prisoners have the right to be in prison without being exposed to the threat of extra-judicial judgments.
I was truly looking forward to today’s speech of the Palestinian President in this House, at the press conference and during our joint lunch, and I&#160;expected to learn about the vision that Palestine intends to bring to the negotiating table in the hope of securing peace for the citizens of that part of the world.
The action in Jericho was a significant, emotive event, which leads to problems on the Palestinian side.
On the other hand, Fatah's actions in Gaza showed that those who were previously in favour of the renunciation of violence under Mr&#160;Abbas are taking on a new role now that they have lost the elections and have lost their sources of profit.
Both President&#160;Abbas and the Quartet have lost credibility in putting things right.
In our own interests, I hope that this depiction of the situation will prove to be false. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, together with my fellow Member, Mr&#160;McMillan-Scott, I had the opportunity yesterday evening to spend three quarters of an hour with President Abbas, and I should like sincerely to convey to you how shocked we felt at the latest events and how angry they made us feel.
The fact that the prison in Jericho was attacked at a period when the Palestinian President was in Europe to plead his cause, taking Saeb Erakat, the strong man of Jericho, with him, owes nothing to chance.
The current pantomime of half-naked, blindfolded prisoners with their hands tied together owes nothing to chance in a country that, as we know, is in torment.
The least thing can spark off violence, and caricature is never far away.
I do not know who will benefit from this crime, but what I do know is that we in the European Parliament must neither be fooled nor share responsibility for this crime, which we must condemn.
We find ourselves with a man – Mahmoud Abbas – whose history you have described back to the 1970s, his commitment to peace, and his presence here today in an Assembly of 25 nations, directly elected, representing the very values that we are seeking to encourage in other parts of the world and especially in the Middle East: human rights, democracy, the rule of law, the free media, and so on.
These are the values which I believe President Mahmoud Abbas was prepared to accept and of which he spoke in his inauguration speech in January 2005.
Speaking as a Briton, and with a deep commitment to the process of peace and democracy in the Arab world, I find it paradoxical, ironic and tragic that the two countries which speak so much about democracy in the Arab world are the very countries – the United States and the United Kingdom – which walked away from that prison, which abandoned their international responsibilities instead of reinforcing the prison’s security.
I hope, Mr President, that, when the Euromed Parliamentary Assembly, over which you preside, meets in Brussels in a few days time, we will hear a statement from the Commission and the Council on precisely what happened, why it happened, when it happened and who took the orders.
However, I would like to take the opportunity to express briefly, on behalf of the Council, our deep concern regarding the continuing and escalating violence in the Middle East.
The top priority is to restore peace and order and to protect human lives.
We must remind all those responsible that they have a duty to protect human lives and to free the hostages still detained.
I also agree with Mr&#160;Schulz, who said that all the institutions – Parliament, the Council and the Commission – are duty-bound to act responsibly to ensure that the Middle East peace process does not break down irrevocably, but can continue.
In this context, I would also agree with Mr&#160;Cohn-Bendit that we need to prevent and avoid unilateral action.
Over the last few weeks and months, the foreign ministers have repeatedly grappled with the problem of the Middle East, most recently in Salzburg last weekend at the informal meeting of foreign ministers, on which Mrs&#160;Plassnik will report today.
In any event, Commissioner Ferrero Waldner had a meeting with President Abbas yesterday, and, on the Commission’s behalf, expressed our support for the quest for a peaceful solution to the Middle East conflict.
We share the concern expressed by some speakers at the extremely dangerous situation in the region.
We must of course highlight the fact that some Europeans have been taken hostage and that the interests of the EU and of some Member States in the territories have been attacked.
The EU has been and continues to be a donor to the Palestinians, and so we appeal loudly and clearly for violence against EU interests or against our nationals to be avoided at all costs and call on all sides to exercise restraint, in order to prevent the situation from worsening.
We shall work together to ensure that the people of Israel and the Palestinian people can live in peace. &#160;&#160; At the end of the speeches, I would like to point out that the Conference of Presidents will examine the proposals that the chairmen of the political groups make and that in ten days time the plenary sitting of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly will take place in Brussels, marking the end of the European Union’s Presidency of that institution.
Democracy can only work if the representatives of the people do not personally act in complete disregard of the wishes of the electorate and of the promises they made.
It is pretty hard to take that you are now trying to prevent me from speaking. &#160;&#160; Mr Martin, of what does your point of order consist? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I made the observation and expressed the wish that you should please try to get here on time.
I would like to remind you that the time you are wasting also costs the tax-payer money. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I rise on a point of order.
The procedure you followed is not the appropriate one either.
Please do not make use of points of order procedures which relate exclusively to the work of the sitting under way to raise other issues which, however important they may be, cannot be used for the purpose of the kind of requests you are making. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the Council and Commission statements on the preparations for the European Council and the Lisbon Strategy.
In this constructive spirit, we also want today's debate to include an open discussion on options for solving the economic and social problems common to the whole European Union and on the important role that you have as the representatives of the people.
The new governance cycle is based on partnership and responsibility.
As part of their summit at Hampton Court, the Heads of State or Government gave greater political impetus to the newly revived Lisbon Strategy, focussing on the issue of how European values can reinforce the modernisation of the economy and society in a globalised world.
It is also important that the European Council, at its meeting last December, reached a political agreement on the financial perspective 2007-2013.
That in itself is an important sign that the European Union is capable of finding solutions, although we are of course aware that we are in the process of intensive and difficult dialogue with you, which we want to pursue constructively in order to implement this agreement between the governments in cooperation with you.
Europe is facing new challenges, including the increasing competitive pressure from outside, both economic and technological, the ageing population, rising energy prices and the need to guarantee energy security.
Since the end of 2005 there have been signs of slow but sure economic recovery.
However, continuing to reduce unemployment, which currently affects almost 19.5&#160;million people, and increasing productivity and growth potential are still the greatest challenges for the European Union.
Concrete objectives and timetables are a useful tool for accelerating the implementation of the planned reforms and achieving better results in terms of growth and jobs.
The Commission has presented a 'Community Lisbon Programme', proposing measures that should be taken at Community level.
The Commission's annual progress report also makes an important contribution to the process of the renewed Lisbon Strategy for growth and jobs.
All the Member States have drawn up their national reform programmes quickly and thoroughly.
The national reform programmes are a decisive first step in progressing with greater individual responsibility and greater consciousness of the reform priorities.
In the opinion of the Commission, however – and at this point I would quite particularly like to thank the President of the Commission, Mr&#160;Barroso, for his institution's work, which is of great significance in the preparations for the summit, and especially for the speed and thoroughness with which they have worked – some of the programmes should include more specific objectives and timetables and additional details regarding the budgetary aspects of the proposed reforms, and go into the issues of competition and the removal of barriers to market access in greater detail.
The necessary instruments are in place.
The Member States' top priority for 2006 will therefore be the timely and comprehensive implementation of our objectives.
For this to be possible, it is vital for the Member States to intensify the measures they have already proposed.
In line with the new governance of the strategy, the Member States have made real efforts to get the national parliaments, representatives of local and regional authorities, the social partners and other representatives of civil society involved in designing their national programmes.
It is the Presidency's intention that, within the framework of the integrated guidelines adopted last year, the European Council should lay down specific priority measures to be implemented by the end of 2007.
As part of the renewed Lisbon Strategy, the spring summit will therefore be devoted to those issues given priority in the national reform programmes and the European Commission's report, namely research, development and innovation, policy for small and medium-sized enterprises, employment and energy.
Of course, we also need to continue to take action in general in the context of all three strands of the Lisbon Strategy – economic, social and environmental.
One pillar of the Lisbon Strategy is research and innovation, as the driving force behind production and knowledge use.
As we are all aware, though, we have not really got very far in this area, which is so important for our future – research spending in the EU currently stands at only about 1.9%.
Moreover, in our fast-paced information society, modern communications strategies play a vital role in promoting innovation.
In terms of higher education, we would like to call on the Member States, by 2007, to make it easier for universities to access additional private sponsorship and to break down barriers to cooperation between academic institutions and business, in accordance with their national conventions.
Secondly, more needs to be done to open up the framework conditions for businesses, business potential and, in particular, the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Small and medium-sized enterprises form a major part of the European economy and can justifiably be described as its driving force.
Measures to strengthen and promote small and medium-sized enterprises as the backbone of the European economy can therefore make a significant contribution to growth and jobs.
My remarks would be incomplete if I did not mention the labour market, including in particular promoting the integration of young people into the labour market.
Within the European Council itself, we want to pay particular attention to combating youth unemployment.
One of our aims is to reduce the number of school drop-outs by 2010 and to ensure that more young people complete secondary education.
Combating long-term unemployment must also be at the heart of our efforts.
Finally, the subject of energy will also play a particularly important role, not only because of the importance of the sector in generating jobs and growth, but also, of course, in the light of recent events.
I hope that, in this respect just as on all the other subjects I have mentioned, the European Council will provide an important impetus that will decisively influence the future activities of all the institutions of the European Union. &#160;&#160; No, Mr President.
Let us take advantage of this favourable economic context to take a new leap forward towards our objectives of growth and employment.
Your Assembly accorded huge support to this new approach, and I should like to congratulate Parliament on the role it is playing in this connection.
In its report to the spring European Council, the Commission proposed several priority measures in favour of growth and employment.
During the next few months, the Commission will work in close cooperation with the Member States with a view to helping implement their national programmes and to following these up.
I am very grateful to Parliament for the role it is adopting in this connection.
The joint parliamentary sittings held by the European Parliament and representatives of the national parliaments and devoted to the Lisbon Strategy have made a significant contribution to raising the national parliaments’ awareness of what is at stake and have encouraged them to participate in the process.
Everyone has something both to offer and to learn, but I can never emphasise enough that we not only need action at the level of the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament but also need actively to involve the national parliaments, social partners, national parties – and not only the European parties – and European public opinion.
That is a condition for our renewed strategy for growth and employment succeeding.
Another important issue is that of the free movement of workers.
I noted that, in the resolution it proposed by way of concluding this debate, Parliament called on the Member States, and I quote, ‘to move as fast as possible towards total freedom of movement for workers and other citizens within the EU and to undertake determined action to promote the quality of work in all its aspects’.
I entirely concur with this proposal of the European Parliament.
A recent study by the Commission clearly shows that the flow of workers from the Central and Eastern European Member States into the old Member States has, in the main, had beneficial effects.
I am impatient to see other countries join them.
In a globalised economy, no Member State can allow itself to go it alone.
The Commission will exercise its prerogatives if companies abuse their dominant position in the market.
The challenge of globalisation calls for a strengthening of the internal market.
Freedom to provide services is an essential element of the internal market, and we have already said that the services sector, on the one hand, and small and medium-sized enterprises, on the other, are the most relevant drivers today for employment in Europe.
We know that the Austrian Presidency will work on the common position of the Council shortly thereafter.
I hope that this legislation can then be adopted swiftly, as we need to make progress in this area if we are serious about growth and jobs.
The energy challenges of the 21st century require a strong and effective response.
After a long period of relative stability, we can no longer take secure and affordable energy supplies for granted.
Only a European response, based on sustainability, competitiveness and security, can deal with the magnitude of these challenges.
In the Commission’s Green Paper we have highlighted six key actions.
We must create a truly single European electricity and gas market.
We must accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy, using both new energies and existing ones to ensure sustainability.
Last but not least, we must foster a more coherent and integrated approach in our relations with third countries and in international fora.
I do not need to remind you that the very basis of the European Community was in fact a common European policy on coal and steel, the two areas which were considered the most sensitive in terms of the national strategic interest of the Member States at that time.
The Green Paper invites everybody to contribute to this important debate.
I believe that globalisation offers major opportunities, but we cannot and should not ignore the pressure on companies and workers resulting from fierce international competition.
We need to involve social partners in our discussions on jobs and labour markets.
At the same time, we must boost Europe’s research and development spending to 3% of GDP by 2010.
There is a gap between higher education and research, on the one hand, and companies and the economy on the other.
The EIT should be the next one; it is a symbol of a European purpose, but it is not just a symbol: it adds value to our collective efforts in terms of research, education and innovation.
In short, more commitment to Europe will bring more prosperity and freedom to our citizens.
Next week the European Council must show a similar commitment to growth and jobs.
Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Lisbon stands for growth, employment and thus, at its heart, for the competitiveness of the economy of the European Union, and I am delighted at the President of the Commission's personal commitment and at the fact that he is focussing his Commission's efforts in this area.
I would like to thank him for saying that a return to economic nationalism or – some want to put a positive spin on it – economic patriotism would mean the downfall of the European economy and would result in us not being internationally competitive at all in the globalised world.
Mr&#160;Winkler, we think very highly of you as a person, and we appreciate the fact that you are here, but when the President of the Commission is here it would be appropriate for the Presidency of the Council to be represented at a similarly high level, by a minister.
This is about the institutions of the European Union.
The European Parliament gives a high priority to the Lisbon process, which is a continuous process and is not limited to 2010.
I am pleased that the three largest groups – yes, and maybe one day the others will join in too, Mr&#160;Wurtz – are putting this at the heart of their activities, as of course is the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, even though they are not here, and maybe some others too ... ....
I therefore call on the governments to take the European Parliament as their example.
Enterprises are not an abstract concept, and getting involved means making freedom a reality.
Mr&#160;Barroso, we welcome the proposal you have put forward for a European Institute of Technology.
This must involve creating not a big new university authority, but a network between the various European technological institutes already in existence, so that we get added value and so that Europe can really be one of the global leaders in innovation and research.
You referred to GALILEO and Airbus.
I would advocate that this House should work closely with the national parliaments on this issue, because it is our joint task, both nationally and in Europe, to make Europe competitive and to ensure that it develops well economically and in general. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I rise on a point of order under Rules&#160;166(1) and 121(2).
I apologise for interrupting the debate, but before it began Sir Robert Atkins rose on a point of order which you ruled to be out of order because it did not concern the business of the day.
He was actually referring to an extremely important issue which is covered by Rule&#160;166.
When the Parliament’s Rules are being disregarded, it is quite in order for a Member to draw that to your attention.
I ask you whether it is possible for you to give your reply to Sir Robert Atkins before the vote.
I apologise for this interruption. &#160;&#160; I regret this interruption as well.
There is a gaping chasm between what you have once again described as being necessary as a commitment, including financially, and what happens in practice.
The Council agreed to 40.82% less than you had requested for the financial perspective.
Three days later, the Heads of State or Government will meet, and once again proclaim how important the Lisbon summit and the Lisbon objectives are.
In the European Parliament, we have tried to combine the flexibility Europe needs with the social cohesion it cannot do without, because these two aspects belong together.
If we want to take the people with us – yes, Mr&#160;Winkler, you are quite right there – if we want the people to come with us, we must depict globalisation as an opportunity, but also reduce the risk that it could be used to break down social standards.
With the Services Directive, we tried to say yes to flexibility where necessary and possible, but only if we retain social cohesion.
What we need is investment in lifelong learning, because, if good qualifications are a prerequisite for access to the labour market, then lifelong learning is a basic right that guarantees that everybody has that access.
Yesterday, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany clarified the desires of young people in Europe using the example of the Erasmus scheme.
The irony is that this so-called patriotism – thinly disguised economic nationalism – will bring as few benefits to the citizens of France, Spain or Poland as it does to the rest of Europe, for it is fair competition that drives the global market, raises quality and lowers prices, and it is fair competition that protectionism undermines.
The great success of the euro, as the President of the Commission has pointed out, is that mergers and takeovers are proceeding apace.
That means the Spring Council expediting transposition and implementation of the Union’s directives to deliver a single market with free movement of goods, services and capital.
It is time for our Heads of State and Government to formalise the Council meetings that take place in March and October.
There should be public discussion too of the Union’s burgeoning defence policy, currently being planned behind closed doors.
The Austrian Presidency opened to public scrutiny a recent Environment Council meeting; why not make this openness universal practice in the Council?
My group welcomes the Commission’s proposal to bring forward a concept paper so that we can discuss defence policy here in Parliament and involve our citizens in the discussion of what our continent can become.
It is now a very one-sided strategy for growth and jobs.
The idea that the aim of sustainability and social equity, as set out in Gothenburg, should also form part of this strategy has been completely disregarded.
In this coordination structure, we tried to discuss fiscal policy.
If we are not prepared to talk about ecological taxes, how will the state be able to promote sustainability in a controlled manner?
As Mrs&#160;Kroes quite rightly said, we will only have a chance against the energy giants politically if we actually push the market through against them. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Barroso, Mr&#160;Winkler, the Commission generally has the knack of finding evocative patronymics for its programmes: Erasmus, Socrates and so on.
I would refer to the latest Commission communication with its references to, for example, the need to make Europe more attractive to business, to reforming pensions, the health sector and the labour market and to stabilising the budget, raising the retirement age, increasing productivity at work, ensuring genuine competition in the services sector and promoting increased competition in the electricity and gas markets.
The truth of the matter is that the two aspects of the Lisbon Strategy are incompatible.
The process is under way in Estonia, and Finland will approve the Constitution before it takes over the Presidency on 1&#160;July.
The Constitution proposes that ratifications be allowed to continue until 80% of the countries have approved the Constitution, at which point a special summit would take place.
The provisions of the Constitution cannot, however, be the basis for changing the Treaty of Nice, where unanimity is the rule.
It is therefore illegal to continue with the ratifications without a new decision, unless France and the Netherlands are engaging in double-dealing and saying one thing at home and something else in Brussels.
The core elements and goals are still as valid today as they were when it was first agreed: to make Europe the most dynamic and innovative economy in the world by 2010.
That is why we have asked for national plans with clear targets that will guarantee the return of the investment.
If we want to be realistic about being the most dynamic then we must take tough decisions to reflect that position. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the report from the high level group chaired by Wim Kok provides a realistic description of the state of the EU economy, which faces the threat of marginalisation in relation to the Asian and American markets.
The global market is benevolent towards economic entities that are efficient, competitive and which offer cheap, good quality products and services.
The direct involvement of Member States and parliaments in implementation programmes can be counted as one of the successes of activities aimed at pursuing the Lisbon Strategy.
Action related to the energy security programme may also create better, stable conditions for economic development.
The fact that a large group of people is taking part in the implementation of the strategy may also give rise to optimism.
These actions include the creation of an internal market, a labour market, the right conditions for restructuring and the creation of businesses and the growth of innovation, while simultaneously doing away with unemployment and increasing wages.
There are particularly significant obstacles to the process of restructuring, organising of the agricultural market and limiting agricultural production costs.
The lack of viability in some production sectors means that large numbers of holdings are facing liquidation and that there is an increase in unemployment and unused land.
We need a multi-annual programme to adapt farming to new market conditions.
The process of scrapping protectionism, which does not create but only decreases added value and increases social costs, faces large obstacles.
I think this is something we can achieve. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I wish all the institutions the very best for the actions they need to adopt over the next few weeks or at the summit, which must be starting points for the future of Europe.
The motto for all the sittings in the coming weeks must, as Mr&#160;Barroso said, be ‘deeds not words’.
We call for courageous, concrete, verifiable European actions from the Member States for growth and jobs and for energy policy.
First, we want decisive actions, so that the European Union can continue to develop towards a political union with greater courage, credibility and decision.
When we waste as little time as possible in implementing the four freedoms for all citizens of an EU without borders.
Freedom and responsibility instead of chains, protectionism, nationalism and partitioning transitional rules – these things are our goal, and they will provide common added value for the citizens of Europe.
It is evident that the unanimity rule in the Council blocks progress, prevents or impedes European solutions and strengthens particularism.
Sixthly, we do not have a common economic policy, which means that we need to coordinate economic policies much more closely.
The draft resolution I have prepared together with my excellent fellow Member, Mr&#160;Lehne, indicates a few worthwhile paths to go down, even if our Parliament sometimes refuses to look the truth in the face.
Thus, the majority of MEPs have ignored the fact that a substantial portion of the United States’s growth surplus in recent years was the result of integrating more than ten million legal immigrants.
The spectacular economic development of India, China, Taiwan and Hong Kong owes a lot to companies set up by former emigrants who have returned home.
Another is the lack of cooperation between businesses and universities.
The latter should be able to obtain more resources for themselves by investing in promising young talent and by increasing the prestige of their research activities through the conferring of associated diplomas and degrees.
Faced with a market dominated by a handful of producer companies, there is no point in seeking refuge in the mere liberalisation of the European market, especially when such liberalisation leads to the emergence of a small number of so-called European champions which will end up dividing the market between themselves.
The ten or twenty years’ increase in life expectancy for generally fit and healthy populations also presents a great opportunity.
Europe needs to stop talking in pessimistic terms about the future and instead to seize all the new opportunities for building the dynamic and inclusive society that the Lisbon Strategy is designed to bring about. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, one year on from the mid-term review of the Lisbon Agenda, it is time to ask once more what stage Europe has reached.
Europe’s economic success over the last fifty years was founded upon the four freedoms of the internal market, three of which are now in acute danger.
This began two years ago when, among others, Germany and Austria imposed restrictions on the mobility of labour from the Member States in the east of the EU.
That is particularly ironic in view of the fact that it is in the energy sector that a European approach is called for, for are we to believe that we can have a common energy policy without an internal market in energy?
Lisbon is no more an end in itself than is the internal market.
The same is true in the case of older people; this House’s resolution stresses the significance of demographic change, and both the elderly of today and those of tomorrow merit our attention.
I should like to talk to you about the Commission’s role in the Lisbon Strategy.
On many occasions, you have rightly emphasised the fact that, in order for this strategy to succeed, broad popular support is required, as is the proper involvement of all the relevant players, including the national parliaments.
Instead, we champion a model of cooperation and solidarity between the Member States.
In 2007-2008, you are to lodge a report on the European Union’s budget and future resources.
You should have the political will and the courage to say – and this is a matter broached by other Members – that it is unacceptable for the budget to be reduced to the point where the budget envisaged for young students or young workers is cut by a third.
With the liberalisation of the markets, the privatisation of public services and the promotion of the flexibility of the labour market, or flexisecurity as the Commission now calls it, being stepped up, what we have seen is lower economic growth, higher unemployment, more precarious work, more poverty and greater inequality in the distribution of wealth, in the name of competitiveness and free competition.
It is clearer now that the two core pillars of neoliberal policies are the Stability and Growth Pact and the so-called Lisbon Strategy, not to mention the swingeing cuts to Community funds, which have served to turn economic and social cohesion into nothing more than a mirage.
Consequently, as we suggest in the resolution that we tabled, it is vital that the Lisbon Strategy be replaced by a European strategy for solidarity and sustainable development, which will promote investment in research and innovation with the aim of balanced and long-lasting development, in the quality of work in all its aspects, in improving qualifications, in basic infrastructure for supporting industry, in public services, in environmental protection and environmental technology, especially in energy and transport, in improving labour, social, environmental and security laws, in order to achieve harmonisation at the highest levels, and in the social economy.
A new social policy agenda is also required, with a view to developing a society ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Barroso wants the European Union to engage with civil society; Mr&#160;Winkler wants to motivate EU citizens.
We all want economic growth and jobs; we all want the economies of Europe to thrive.
Recent modest improvements in some European Union economies have been achieved the European Union.
The most recent glaring example is the Services Directive, which had been intended to impart vital momentum to liberalising the internal market and increasing competitiveness, and also served as one of the foundation stones of the Lisbon Strategy.
The European Parliament’s compromise text will be able to contribute little to energising the common market, at least not while the Lisbon Strategy is still in operation.
Similarly, in other spheres we increasingly find any changes and reforms being met by increasing social and political counter-action.
Enormous energy is expended on preserving the existing situation and restricting changes and reforms, but in fact reforms to the European Union’s internal market and the intensification of its integration are the main steps that could bring about an environment conducive to implementation of the Lisbon Strategy.
During the passionate process of debating the financial framework, the representatives of the Member States’ governments did not have strategic considerations in mind, and the financial framework demonstrates only a very weak connection with the Lisbon tasks.
Not only the various Member States, but also the Commission, bear the burden of responsibility in this.
Whilst the Commission had proposed to double spending for science and development to EUR 10 billion per annum from 2007, the Council rejected this proposal on the grounds that that would have necessitated considerable cuts in agricultural subsidies, regional subsidies and also structural funds.
Well, given that this is coming from someone who is partly responsible for the follow-up of the Lisbon Strategy, this puts a question mark over the whole thing. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by seizing this opportunity to thank my co-rapporteur Mr Goebbels most warmly for the good cooperation in the steering group, in which we succeeded in producing, for the plenary and for the Conference of Presidents, a draft that is the logical continuation of what we came out with last year when the mid-term review was under consideration.
This House has also played its part in setting priorities, three of which are mentioned in our resolution, namely population change, energy policy and innovation.
My only complaint is about something that many speakers have already mentioned.
This is part of ‘better lawmaking’, and this demand is addressed to the Commission. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, 2005 was the first year in which the revised Lisbon Strategy was implemented.
The strategy is now better known and has been debated in the Member States, and the national reform programmes have been adopted.
It is, as Mr&#160;Schulz said, held back by a tiny financial perspective and by anaemic growth within the eurozone, as well as by a flagrant lack of investment – both at European and Member State level – in the universities, research and innovation and lifelong learning.
If the growth strategy defined by the European Union is to succeed, it needs to be supported.
As we have often mentioned in this debate, the Nordic countries have been able to implement reforms successfully because they have negotiated them and arranged for them to be accompanied both by collective investment in research and innovation and by a new economic flexibility and significant compensation for workers in terms of social benefits, lifelong learning and protection of rights.
In the same way, Germany has come up with all the aces where exports are concerned and, in common with other European Union countries, has demonstrated that, even with high salary costs and a system of social protection that is among the most efficient in Europe and among the most extensive in the world, it can remain competitive internationally.
Let us, then, stop invoking global competition as a way of denigrating the European social model.
The establishment of the single market and of a Community united socially and politically in developing the wealth of its cultural identities is a factor of great importance: there is no single market, no European society able to express its full potential without the physical integration of Europe and without transport infrastructure and services providing mobility and ensuring that every point ‘a’ of the Union has access to every point ‘b’.
This objective should not be viewed as an almost obsolete one compared to the new challenges we are facing; it is a fundamental premise: there is no research without the opportunity for face-to-face contacts, there is no effective potential for companies if markets are not integrated.
My heartfelt appeal today is to avoid a disastrous political error: a true political error since, after resolution 884, intellectual, political and financial energy was unleashed in Europe, with enormous expectation surrounding the idea of continuing the TEN project.
I hope this idea is not approved and that we are able to avoid the disastrous effects that a possible interruption of the project would have on the expectations of many European citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, if we envisage Europe becoming the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world, we need to boost investment in education and in the field of research and development.
I believe we must link the Lisbon Strategy to the Bologna Process in order to establish a good connection between our university system and our economic and welfare policy objectives.
Let us consider the present-day realities: our economic growth is averaging out at 1.5% and we have created only something like a quarter of the new jobs we hoped for – and very badly paid ones at that.
This is the course we have been steering for six years, and the newly-adopted guidelines, which now have to be implemented as part of the national plans, reflect it.
We do need competition, but what we need to compete for is higher social standards and higher environmental standards.
To that question, the Kok report, back in 2004, gave an unambiguous response: the Member States must shoulder their responsibility and set down to the task of reforming their economies and their welfare state, thereby making room for sustainable growth and employment.
It appears that Europe’s elite is unable to discuss the EU’s future without the excess baggage of a rejected constitution.
Nine months of reflection should be sufficient for a first follow-up. &#160;&#160; ( Mr President, it is a great shame that the high-flown talk of implementing the Lisbon Strategy has come to nothing more than words.
The Lisbon Strategy relates in particular to the competitiveness of the Union.
As we all know, increasing competitiveness mainly requires an increase in productivity, which in turn threatens jobs.
This threat will not materialise if the increase in revenue created by greater productivity is sufficiently high and is not limited to individual countries but also applies to integrated economies such as those of the EU.
However, increased productivity requires not only the implementation of technological advances, but also the relocation of production from locations where it is more expensive to those where it is cheaper.
The increase in revenue resulting from these activities will be beneficial to all in the Union, while abandoning the process threatens to result in stagnation and decreased competitiveness, as the world does not stand still.
It is an opportunity for us all. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party.
Our view is that the actions to achieve the Lisbon goals – growth, employment and competitiveness – have been few in number and lacking in clarity.
We need an energy plan to free Europe from the current geopolitical instability, and maximum attention should be devoted to new sources of energy in order to ensure sustainable and durable development – also on an environmental level.
In specific terms, we need to invest in education, training, research and innovation in order to render our production processes competitive.
Finally, we need to safeguard our primary resource – workers and human capital.
We must not forget that industry must be at the service of the workers, not vice versa. &#160;&#160; Mr President, chairmen, ladies and gentlemen, I do not make a habit of paying compliments, but in this debate it would be really improper not to express any appreciation for the co-rapporteurs Mr&#160;Lehne and Mr&#160;Goebbels.
The discussion of this resolution was far more constructive in Parliament than last year, and I hope that this bodes well for the hoped-for implementation itself of the renewed strategy for growth and jobs.
We also have a responsibility as a European institution, of course, though, and in this connection I welcome the intentions, from both the Commission and the Council Presidency, to deal with the services directive swiftly and in this connection, to respect the difficult balance we have struck after much hard work in this House.
We like to live well in Europe and we want to keep it that way, but in order to make our dream come true, in order to retain our level of prosperity and keep what we call our social model intact, we must become a competitive global player.
President-in-Office, do you envisage that the conclusions will ensure not only flexibility, but also modern security?
It is time to deliver and I hope that we will all join forces.
There was a period in history – beginning at the end of the eighteenth century and continuing through the nineteenth - when Europe became the world’s most dynamic knowledge-based region.
It began with changes in the United Kingdom, including legislation on economic issues and the abolition of the guild system.
The idea that there might today exist unusually wise people who know in detail what measures European countries should take in order to help Europe develop into a dynamic knowledge-based region is quite wrong.
Finally, this is a Europe that would be without taboos and that would therefore dare to talk in terms of nuclear power and of independence where energy sources are concerned.
The Lisbon Strategy is the only antidote to the various forms of national protectionism. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I shall use this brief minute to concentrate on an amendment by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament in which we welcome the proposal by the Heads of Government of six countries that a European pact for equality between women and men be set up.
The purpose of this equality pact is not to create a new process but to reinforce already existing processes, such as the Lisbon one, so that the objectives of sustainable growth, full employment and social justice become attainable.
The objectives in terms of child care and of being able to combine gainful employment and parenthood are particularly important. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the meeting of the Council later this month will provide an opportunity for Member State governments to affirm the vital need for reform to proceed more rapidly than it has before.
It is extraordinary that the European Union should still have governments wedded to an outdated protectionist mentality and the promotion of economic and industrial patriotism.
If the national reform plans submitted by governments are anything like those provided by the United Kingdom Government, then heaven help us.
The debate on protectionism goes to the heart of the debate on future economic development.
The Council should get its act together on the Doha Round and work harder towards world trade agreements.
Then we can judge it on its resolve and we can then give our verdict. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, even Mr&#160;Poettering, in his opening statement today, finds himself obliged to criticise the Austrian Presidency’s representation – specifically the absence of Chancellor Schüssel – and it may well be the case that that absence has something to do with the fact that the news that the Austrian Presidency had to convey is very far from being either something to boast about or even adequate.
The message is modest and inadequate in terms of the objectives, particularly of the intended reduction in unemployment, if we bear in mind just how much unemployment there is and what we originally intended that the Lisbon process should achieve; it is not merely modest and inadequate, but also false, in terms of the means to be applied – these goals, modest though they are, will not be achieved by structural reforms alone.
The EU and the Member States must get their hands on more money.
Security of energy supply is crucial for the economic activity and competitiveness of the EU economy as a whole.
Hence, it should also be considered within the context of foreign and security policy of the Union.
Recent problems with energy supply expose our weakness, vulnerability and dependence on third parties.
If we treat the internal market and the Lisbon Agenda seriously, we should endow our economic operators and citizens with equal access to and security of energy supplies.
Steps taken by the Presidency, and especially the Commission’s Green Paper, are going in the right direction, although they are too modest.
We must extend this principle of solidarity to problems related to energy supply shortages caused by political action.
Energy security also has a financial aspect: the biggest cutbacks in the Financial Perspective, as agreed by the Council, occurred in the field of trans-European energy networks.
You cannot embrace globalisation while abandoning large numbers of our citizens.
Finally, 13 years after creating the single market, it is time we accepted that there is a European single market which demands European champions, not national champions.
After all, the European public are still being promised more growth and more jobs, but let us not pull the wool over each other’s eyes, for paper can wait.
The message to the Member States is both simple and clear.
The internal market must become a reality, come what may.
The Lisbon Strategy also has a social dimension, though.
We will not become competitive if we reduce our principles and values on solidarity with the weakest, our citizens’ own responsibility, social justice or wages to such a level that we start to compete with our Asian competitors.
Reforms are necessary, though.
We have arranged the European structural programmes in such a way as to ensure that three quarters, or 55&#160;billion, will contribute to the Lisbon objectives, and if the funds for those programmes are lacking, or if the Member States are not prepared to pay up, then I have to conclude that growth and employment in line with Lisbon will not be achieved.
As far as the ageing population and the declining numbers of young people are concerned, we will need to adjust social security and employment policy in such a way that active young people and fit elderly people can make their contributions to society in the near future, to prosperity and happiness for our citizens. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to talk about two of the issues which I regard as highly important to fulfilling the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, or in other words growth and employment.
The first of these is the completion of the single internal market.
The report from the European Commission, which has already been mentioned here, stresses that labour mobility, not only between the new and old Member States, but also within the ‘old’ EU, is still insufficient.
And yet it is precisely this mobility upon which economic growth relies.
The second of these issues is the approval of the Financial Perspective.
An economic crisis, a political crisis and also, I fear, a crisis of confidence.
I would therefore call on all three institutions to work hard at this issue so that the Financial Perspective will be, so to speak, ‘home and dry’ by the end of June, or in other words by the end of the Austrian Presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr President, firstly I would like to thank President Abbas for giving me this unexpected opportunity to contribute to this debate.
There is nothing more important to Europe than to ensure that the Lisbon Agenda succeeds.
That is the way to give our people new hope that Europe will contribute to their futures and that we can cooperate together to give new hope to other parts of the world as well.
I want to highlight two aspects of the Agenda highlighted in this resolution.
The first is the health of the people of Europe, because I believe that is a prerequisite of Lisbon.
The opportunities for business to innovate and meet the demands of the higher standards that we expect in our environment will stand them in good stead vis-à-vis the rest of the world.
We have the opportunity to lead the world on sustainability, on innovation, on eco-labelling and so forth, and I believe that is a challenge that the Commission must take up with Parliament.
Lastly, let me give credit and pay tribute to the Austrian Presidency for the work it has been doing in both these areas, in relation both to a healthy people and a healthy environment, because that will lead to the healthy economy that Lisbon can bring us all in the very near future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on 15 March, Hungary remembers the fight for freedom and revolution of 1848.
Looking back, we can say that the lasting results of the revolution have been the change in the economic system, the freedom of people and the continuing competitiveness of the country.
We must, at last, switch from the outdated, unproductive competition between Member States to a European internal market ensuring the highest level of freedom and human dignity to its citizens.
The Lisbon Strategy is not only a five-ten year plan, but the foundation of our competitiveness and survival for the next 100-150 years.
I ask the Council, the Commission, Parliament and the Prime Ministers preparing for the spring summit to finally understand and implement the message of the 21st century.
Moreover, it will be possible to achieve better results by adopting the additional measures and structural changes agreed within the European Union.
Individual Member States have made progress in some of these sectors, but none of them has obtained positive and lasting results.
The Member States must give up their old national habits and devote more resources to building Europe.
The European Parliament is a key player in the strategy for growth and in the commitment to build the new Europe.
It therefore has to act increasingly as a stimulus for all parties interested in relaunching Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have obviously now driven ourselves into a corner of the Union.
Every week, for example, we lag badly behind the United States of America and Japan in terms of investment in information and communications technology.
At the same time, China and India are competing with us ever more fiercely.
I would ask Mr&#160;Barroso, President of the European Commission, whether it is possible that you have the sort of southern temperament to pass this example on to those who are still afraid of the bold solutions which we adopted a long time ago.
In other words, it is possible; why should it not be? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, when we discuss the Lisbon process, we can see how different countries are succeeding with it to greater or lesser degrees.
Those countries that have implemented reforms and changes are coping that much better with globalisation and managing to be that much more competitive.
What is remarkable, though, is how little has in actual fact happened at a common European level and the limited degree to which we have given new companies, services and markets more room to expand and products more scope for development.
The Commission’s primary and overarching task is to combat the new protectionism we see developing among governments and politicians in Europe.
This new protectionism is directed against the new Member States and the world outside where the big future markets exist.
However, it is directed against the old Member States, too, in relations between which it is also increasingly to be found.
If the Lisbon process is to be managed successfully, the main task is that of combating this protectionism, which contravenes the Treaty and everything that European integration stands for.
We need to raise the rate of employment among women, develop an active ageing strategy and build a society characterised by lifelong learning.
The Council, the Commission and Parliament must act quickly to reach agreement.
Many important and interesting things have been said on this subject, and I can assure Mr Poettering and Mrs Berger that the Federal Chancellor, even though he is absent, is following very closely what your House has to say.
I would like to tell Mrs Berger that my being here today must not be taken as an indication of any lack of ambition; on the contrary, the Austrian Presidency has the ambition of joining with the Commission in achieving great things for the benefit of Europe’s citizens.
As to your reference to Metternich, I assure you that Metternich is not a role model for us.
We do not want a directory of five big countries that rule the rest.
What I would like to tell Mrs Harms is that sustainability does of course play a major role in the European Union, and I can remind the House that the sustainability strategy is to be revised before mid-2006.
Maybe we operate more on biofuel, in accordance with the spirit of our time.
Several speakers mentioned, in this context, the Commission’s ‘better lawmaking’ initiative, and for this I would like to thank in particular Commissioner Verheugen, who is here with us today, and encourage him to press on with this initiative, for it is the sort of initiative that the public understand and that brings the European Union closer to them once more.
Mr Rasmussen and others mentioned the issue of ‘flexicurity’, and I can confirm and emphasise that we are concerned here with flexibility through security as an overarching paradigm for reforms in the fields of labour law and social policy.
It goes without saying that the intention here is to achieve a balanced relationship between flexibility and security on the European labour markets.
Mr Titley, I agree with you that action is needed, because this will convince our citizens.
When the Commission talks about growth, it is talking in terms of sustainable growth, which involves environmental innovation, energy efficiency, competition for higher quality rather than for lower social standards, lower environmental standards or lower wages, so I hope that is now clear once and for all.
When we talk about jobs, we are not talking about just any old jobs, for we have come to recognise that the great social question of our time is whether we will, in amidst the storms of globalisation, succeed in making available sufficient well paid and skilled jobs.
That is the big issue with which we have to deal.
The consequence of that in our present situation is that certain clear demands must be made of the Member States, which must be told quite firmly that the time for a change of course is now upon us.
We cannot afford social policies that, while allowing young women to get a good education, do not thereafter give them the chance to make something of it for lack of any compatibility between family life and working life, and we cannot afford social policies that simply spit older workers out of the production process because it is believed that they are no longer needed.
Today, none of these things is a viable proposition any longer, and our strategy makes that abundantly clear.
We also affirm that the European single market, a policy that faces up to international competition, is good for growth and employment, and it is for that reason that this Commission does not believe in economic patriotism of any kind whatever.
We wish to reiterate that those who want a big European internal market must also accept the fact that businesses are coming into being in order to operate in it without reference to borders.
I also, though, have something to say to European businesses.
If a company undergoing structural change resorts to making staff redundant, then the primary responsibility for this does not lie with policymakers; on the contrary, we are dealing in such a case with a failure on the part of the business, for businesses can recognise in good time when structural change is going to become necessary and when it has to be set in motion, and we demand of European businesses that they do more to give structural change a positive outcome.
I would like to point out – in the most friendly way possible – that all our experience with the buying-up of businesses over the past twenty years has shown, in the vast majority of cases, no positive effect on the business or on the economy as a whole.
I would prefer it if European companies were to use the huge profits they have made in recent times to invest in new research and production capacities in Europe rather than for funding campaigns to take over other businesses.
It has been complained, and quite rightly, that the general public have not been involved in developing the strategy for growth and employment.
That is a task for national policy-makers and national parliaments.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I just want to raise a small housekeeping point.
I do not know how many this concerns, because there is more than one server.
I should like you to review the agreement with the private company that is supposed to provide this service.
It is in both our democratic and economic interests to do so. &#160;&#160; – Thank you very much.
The European Council should be an opportunity for other Member States to press France to put its house in order. &#160;&#160; Themes linked to competitiveness and growth have always been at the heart of the Lisbon Strategy.
Mr&#160;Cottigny’s report refers to this as a growth adjustment fund, and I propose that, in order to avoid any confusion, we revert to the name used by the European Commission, that is to say a European globalisation adjustment fund. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my group would like to propose an oral amendment to this paragraph.
As regards Amendment 24, I should like to propose to our fellow Members from the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe that a word be changed via an oral amendment.
I should like to replace the term ‘education’ with ‘higher education’ because we are concerned here with cooperation between research, the private sector and higher education.
A series of reports has shed light on the harmful consequences of such agreements for the coastal populations of the countries that conclude the agreements.
Those EU Member States whose vessels operate in third countries’ waters should be liable for the costs of the agreements.
Information on fishing vessels must be brought into line with new rules on managing stock conservation, in order to ensure compliance with the key principle of ‘management of fishing effort’.
The Commission’s proposal and the amendments tabled by the rapporteur in his report are worthy of my support. &#160;&#160; We Moderates have chosen to vote in favour of the current report, but we regret the fact that the protection of fundamental rights has not been highlighted sufficiently at EU level and believe that the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice should extend to individuals’ fundamental rights in relation also to issues concerning internal security. &#160;&#160; Thanks to Mrs&#160;Hazan’s own-initiative report on evaluation of the European arrest warrant, we can further increase the legal certainty enjoyed by our citizens.
I wish, however, to emphasise the problems mentioned in the report that still constitute obstacles to guaranteeing legal certainty.
It is incredibly important for people arrested in connection with the European arrest warrant to be guaranteed legal aid and help in the form of translation and interpretation.
The report reveals major problems in implementing the arrest warrant.
The Member States have clearly shown that they wish to retain parts of the traditional extradition system.
Some countries have refused to enforce the arrest warrant against their own citizens, citing discrimination or the infringement of fundamental rights as grounds for not doing so.
Others have retained or reintroduced verification of double criminality.
The June List believes that these are clear signs that the Member States are safeguarding their sovereignty in the area of criminal law.
Few measures that can be taken against an individual are as far-reaching in their effects as legal proceedings or the requirement to serve a sentence.
The report before us confirms our criticisms.
It looks upon legal sovereignty as an obstacle and refers to the political authorities’ current ‘interference’ in the extradition process, even on the grounds of respect for human rights.
It is significant that the German Constitutional Court has decided to annul the legislation transposing the European arrest warrant and that, in light of that decision, a number of Member States have returned to applying the extradition instruments.
The rapporteur criticises these decisions and supports the activation of the ‘’ referred to in Article&#160;42 of the EU Treaty, thus integrating the European arrest warrant in the first pillar. &#160;&#160; .Like the European immigration policies, the European arrest warrant is very dangerous and fraught with consequences for everyone.
It is concerned, in actual fact, as much with serious offences as with minor offences (terrorism, theft, deliberate damage, insulting behaviour in meetings, remarks considered racist and xenophobic and so on) and, in every instance, people’s rights are less protected than they were with the extradition procedure that previously existed and that, for its part, permitted the political power either to agree to, or refuse to, extradite a person.
The arrest warrant has today become an exclusively judicial procedure as a result, on the one hand, of the abolition of the administrative and political phase and, on the other, of the control exercised by the administrative jurisdictions.
The EAW's role in strengthening judicial cooperation and mutual trust is extremely innovative and improves the Member States' ability to fight against organised crime and terrorism.
I agree with the recommendation that the Parliament should be more involved in the evaluation of the EAW and that fundamental rights in the context of the EAW need to be ensured in order to make sure EU citizens from different Member States do not experience any discrimination. &#160;&#160; – The European Arrest Warrant is yet another link in the chain of measures to complete the institutional network to safeguard the power of capital, within the framework of the Euro-unifying 'area of security and justice'.
It restricts national sovereignty, in that it questions the right of each Member State to exercise criminal jurisdiction over its citizens, while at the same time touching on basic, constitutionally safeguarded personal rights and guarantees.
This decision takes Europe further down a wrong track of opposition to fundamental rights.
If decisions, whether or not arrived at by courts, are to be mutually recognised in the absence of uniform standards, then fundamental rights in the European Union will lose out.
The fact is that the accused risk being mangled in the machinery of the quite totally different criminal law systems that exist in the European Union.
There is not the least hint in this report of the fact that individual states' – such as Germany’s – attempts to incorporate the European Arrest Warrant into their laws have been rejected by their constitutional courts on the grounds of their plain unconstitutionality.
The Union will soon have more auditors than auditees. &#160;&#160; .A Financial Regulation is the same thing as a financial constitution.
It is therefore important.
Up to 800&#160;000 women are victims of trafficking every year, 100&#160;000 of them in the European Union.
This is one of the most serious abuses of human rights in the world today.
Of course, the fight against forced prostitution and the trafficking of human beings is very important, but it must not be forgotten that all prostitution is forced, even when there is no trafficking.
Prostitution is therefore always an attack on human rights, an attack on women’s dignity and is tantamount to slavery.
It is also hypocritical to condemn forced prostitution, because it stabilises and extends legal prostitution.
Prostitution, when called a profession, goes on to the career guidance list, as an alternative to the unemployment which affects young women with such barbarity.
In tackling those incidents, and in general, the Commission and others should ensure that the priority must be to tackle the gangs which force women into these situations, rather than 'softer options' of targeting often vulnerable women forced into sexual slavery. &#160;&#160; We support the resolution because we think it important to focus on measures to reduce the number of victims of human trafficking for the purposes of sexual slavery.
She is forced to do so for one or more of a variety of reasons, for example poverty and unemployment.
Above all, however, there are clear links between a woman choosing to prostitute herself and previous physical, psychological and/or sexual abuse. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the Fourth World Water Forum to be held in Mexico City from 16 to 22&#160;March 2006 because I believe that water is one of the key elements of our fellow citizens’ well being and of world peace.
The European Union must rise to this global challenge, which consists of giving human beings access to this precious natural resource that is water.
We have a collective responsibility to monitor this issue, which affects the fundamental rights of human beings, animals and plants.
At the same time, I wonder whether the time has not come to examine whether the Union should reflect on an extensive European water policy in order to guarantee EU citizens, wherever they find themselves on EU territory, a sustainable and renewable supply of sufficient quality and quantity.
It cannot be a commodity for the profitability of capital, because access to water is a fundamental right, closely connected with health, environmental protection, development and the quality of life.
The management of water resources must be the sole responsibility of the state, so there can be a universal supply of good quality water at an affordable price.
The Fourth World Water Forum in Mexico will basically take place under the aegis of the World Bank and its class policy; in other words, its policy of privatising water supply systems, which means a lack of drinking water for the poor, grass-roots classes and new profits for capital.
The ΕU is promoting the policy of liberalising services within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy.
In Austria alone in recent years, between 15&#160;000 and 20&#160;000 jobs are estimated to have been lost to the new Member States.
Restructuring is a panacea enabling today’s businesses to depict themselves to the world as success stories, on paper at any rate.
There has been even more restructuring in the public services than in the private sector, not least in response to guidelines from the EU.
It is high time that it faced up to its responsibility and desisted from further enlargements, to which these developments are in part attributable, and got back to being more concerned about social justice. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the report on restructuring and employment because we must continually prove to our fellow citizens that the European Union is the source of solutions with regard to today’s profound economic and social changes, and not the cause of problems.
There was a growing need to be able to reconcile, on the one hand, the inevitable industrial restructuring processes linked to the economic changes with, on the other hand, the protection of the main victims that are the redundant workers and the economic activities that depend on the restructured sectors, foremost among which are sub-contractors.
Finally, I totally support the idea of having the European Union step in to help those regions that, after having gone through restructuring processes, must move into new economic areas. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on restructuring and employment, which proposes financial resources, an enhanced role for the social partners and tools for analysing and anticipating restructuring.
It is commendable and necessary that the European Union should be looking into this problem with the aim of anticipating the consequences of restructuring for employees, but it is the EU’s duty to establish an economic and industrial policy that is dynamic and concerned with preserving and creating jobs for Europeans, as well as social and territorial cohesion.
I regret, therefore, that the EU itself encourages competition among the Member States by allowing social and fiscal dumping to prevail. &#160;&#160; .Industrial restructuring is a long-standing and permanent phenomenon, which results from technical progress and improved productivity.
That is why I voted very firmly in favour of the Cottigny report on restructuring and employment.
I sincerely hope that its proposals are taken up by the Council and the Commission and that they result in practical measures.
The European Union should adapt its responses, enhance the role of both sides of industry and put in place tools designed more successfully to anticipate restructuring.
That being said, we obviously must not put our heads in the sand and pretend that the restructuring and relocation of companies does not in some cases affect people and basic social conditions in the area affected.
We support the demand for closer dialogue between the social partners where these issues are concerned, but we can counter the harmful effects of restructuring and relocation in ways other than that of preventing the private sector from developing.
Instead, we should invest our energies in improving the basic conditions in which a greater number of long-term jobs might be created by more companies. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on restructuring and employment, which proposes financial resources and an enhanced role for the social partners, as well as tools for analysing and anticipating restructuring.
It is commendable and necessary that the European Union should be looking into this problem with the aim of anticipating the consequences of restructuring for employees, but it is the European Union’s duty to establish an economic and industrial policy that is dynamic and concerned with preserving and creating jobs for Europeans, as well as social and territorial cohesion.
The SEB group is going to close a production unit in the town, since competition from low-price Chinese imports has become intolerable.
More than 400 employees are out of a job, and that is without mentioning the subcontractors who are losing one of their main customers and who will also have to lay people off.
Nevertheless, the SEB group is doing well.
The June List’s basic attitude is that the consequences of relocation and restructuring are a matter for the individual nations.
Important issues of this kind must be decided on in the Member States.
The European Parliament wishes, among other things: – to establish criteria governing the conditions under which it shall be permitted to carry out restructuring (in order to save jobs and increase competitiveness and not purely, for example, for the purpose of making a profit); – to set up a special ‘growth adjustment’ fund; – to have the EU accept responsibility for the ‘hidden effects’ of restructuring, such as the consequences for workers’ health, psychological problems among workers and increased mortality among those who are dismissed; – to bring about equity participation by employees so that they might then participate in decisions concerning restructuring; – and to take a dim view of Member States’ requiring workers to take early retirement as a consequence of restructuring.
We have thus chosen to vote against this report. &#160;&#160; The Lisbon ‘strategy’, which is supposed to offer us a brilliant future, will be a bitter failure, and a few extra funds by way of support are not going to save the casualties of an industrial sector that, in my region of the Nord-Pas-de-Calais, has seen its jobs destroyed for nothing.
This is a sacrifice that will not have enabled economic and social prosperity to be exported elsewhere in the world.
Not only do we not need charity, but we do not need yet another interventionist report designed to correct the bad habits of the European Commission.
The destruction of jobs in France and in an enlarged Europe will continue, despite our churning out tonnes of paper, which only express our powerlessness and our submission to the rules of unfettered globalisation and of the ultraliberal approach of zealous Europhiles.
We need economic nationalism, the re-establishment of customs and tariff barriers, Community preference in Europe and protection and national preference in France. &#160;&#160; . – I have voted in favour of the Cottigny report following the achievement of a sufficient majority for amendments tabled by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which incorporated proposals I had made in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
The restructuring of businesses needs to be seen in a nuanced light.
This, however, is as real as destruction itself.
After all, we cannot turn our backs on those who have been excluded from progress.
Our objective should consist of endeavouring to make the most of this time for our economies and for our citizens, and this is the project on which our efforts should be concentrated. &#160;&#160; The report is constructive in the main and sheds light on many of the problems entailed in an economy geared to short-term speculation.
In Italy alone, by 2050, young people will receive a pension of only one third of their final salary.
Social integration and poverty are, however, issues that must be dealt with nationally or through voluntary cooperation between the governments of the Member States.
It is difficult to see what added value or specific competence the European Parliament is contributing by churning out opinions on these and similar issues.
The report points out, however, that more than 68 million or 15% of the EU population were living at risk of poverty in 2002.
Unemployment remains high in a number of Member States, particularly among the young, older workers and women.
Labour market exclusion has a national but also a local and regional dimension, according to the report.
We are opposed to the devising of a statute for Members’ assistants, who would then be in danger of living under quite different conditions than the people with whom they have to work closely in the constituencies.
Hence, for example, in the field of information policy, if we apply the general principle laid down in paragraphs 17, 28 and 62 (reduction of activities not providing any added value), I believe that serious changes must be made!
Another sector in which the principles of the report should be applied is the ‘session auxiliaries’.
If we support this principle – as I do – what status is going to be proposed at the end of this year for the 300 session auxiliaries whose contract will not be able to be renewed in its current form, following the disappearance of the legal basis laid down in Article 78 of the ‘conditions of employment of other servants’? &#160;&#160; .I voted against the Grech report, because I do not agree with questioning the establishment of the European Parliament’s headquarters in Strasbourg and the establishment of Luxembourg as a place of work. &#160;&#160; .
The report makes no mention of any particular sum by way of compensation.
We are in favour of fishermen and their representative associations being involved in determining measures to protect the marine environment and rebuild depleted stocks (Amendment 1).
This Commission communication is a step in the right direction, playing a stronger role in promoting the ecologically sustainable management of fisheries.
The priority today is to achieve a reduction in the intensity of fishing activity in order to allow stocks to replenish.
However, other measures may provide significant results, such as strengthening the fight against pollution from ships or promoting sustainable fishing methods.
I accept that this strategy also has to be seen in the wider context of sustainable development requirements - that our current needs have to be met without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
I would like it to be on the record that while I support the overall objective of Parliament's resolution on the Spring Summit 2006, I do not support amendments which state that nuclear energy is a viable alternative to Europe's current energy dependency.
In its Annual Interim Report on the Lisbon Strategy published on 25&#160;January ahead of the next Spring European Council, the Commission says that although it recognises the significant progress made since then, the priority is now to produce results and the time has come to speed up the reforms.
The French built the power station across La Ranche estuary demonstrating the technology; in the UK both the Mersey, on a small scale, and the Severn, on a massive scale, are suitable sites.
What they have in common is that they never point out that the difficulties being experienced by our countries are caused by European integration, and always call for more interference by Brussels in the policies of the Member States.
Salvation cannot come from the Europe of Brussels, because the majority of the problems mentioned in this text come from there.
For that reason, we are choosing to vote against the resolution.
While we are fully supportive of the efforts of the President of the Commission and some Member States to reduce burdens on business and impediments to job creation, we are concerned that some of the measures outlined in the resolution could lead to higher costs on business and detract from the over-riding priority of making Europe more competitive in the global market place and thus significantly reducing unemployment levels.
On these and other grounds, we have decided to abstain on the resolution. &#160;&#160; The joint motion for a resolution signed and being promoted in the European Parliament by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe on the Lisbon Strategy aims to speed up capitalist restructurings even more, by drawing up national programmes.
The Lisbon Strategy is also based on the Maastricht Treaty and the four freedoms (of capital, of trade, of workers, of services) voted on jointly in our country by Nea Dimokratia, the Panellinio Socialistiko Kinima and Synaspismos.
The spiralling use of nuclear power violates fundamental rights and irreparably worsens the living conditions of future generations.
The EUR&#160;3.1&#160;billion allocated to nuclear research by the EU’s seventh research framework programme (2007-2011) is double the amount allocated by its predecessor.
I particularly welcome the proposals relating to a demanding, competitive and innovative approach to the European economy, which sets out a roadmap for European economic reform marked by the completion of the internal market, investment in research and development, and solidarity between communities and generations.
In my opinion, it is regrettable that one year on from the 2005 Spring Council, we remain more or less exactly where we were, in many areas, namely freedom to provide services, freedom of installation for citizens from the new Member States, the deepening of the internal market and reform of budgetary priorities.
We have seen many positive developments in recent years, but we should not be lulled into a false sense of security.
Most importantly, we must stick to our commitment that the countries can make progress towards the EU with membership as the ultimate goal, once they have managed to meet the rigorous accession criteria.
Moreover, we must strive to make this perspective concrete and tangible, as the Commission has done in its recent communication.
Let me mention a few examples of our concrete objectives and proposals.
The Commission, together with the stability pact and the countries concerned, is pursuing the creation of a regional free trade agreement, which would replace the existing patchwork of 31 bilateral free trade agreements.
We shall put forward measures on visa facilitation, and I trust that the Member States will move them quickly forward through the Council, so that we can start negotiations on visa facilitation and readmission agreements.
Let me underline the fact that the more the countries in the region can do to ensure border controls and document security, the easier it will be to convince the EU Member States to make progress on visa facilitation.
Finally, I must say a few words about the death of Slobodan Milosevic.
When we received the news of his death at the end of the Gymnich meeting, my immediate reaction was to remember my visit to Srebrenica last July, at the tenth commemoration of the most appalling massacre in post-war Europe.
In his memoirs, Chancellor Kohl writes that each generation must work for a necessary consciousness of history to avoid repeating our mistakes and to ensure that ‘the voices of victims are heard’.
The International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia is putting on record evidence that will help the Serbs of current and future generations to understand that many crimes were committed in the name of Serbia, while certain individuals were responsible for these crimes.
This will help Serbia to close the tragic chapter of history over which Milosevic presided and to come to terms with the legacy of its past.
Mr President, I would like to say that, as if the situation in the Middle East and in Palestine following Hamas's victory were not complicated enough, the assault on the Jericho prison by Israeli troops − which I believe we must condemn − makes the situation even more complicated and has unleashed a wave of indiscriminate violence which has harmed European Union citizens and interests and which we must condemn in the strongest terms.
Mr President, since I know that it has been debated in the informal Council of Foreign Affairs Ministers, I would like to ask the Commission what approach the European Commission and the Council, which is unfortunately still absent, is going to take to European Union aid to Palestine, and whether it is going to insist, as is logical, on the need to demand that Hamas renounce violence and recognise the State of Israel and the previous agreements.
I urge you to do it this way, or else we will be unfair to the Commissioner and the debate will not be in the proper order. &#160;&#160; I understand the unusual situation in which we find ourselves, but unfortunately, according to the agenda, the debate on the Brok report will take place after statements by the Council and the Commission. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I too have a proposal to make.
We have no information on this whatsoever, but perhaps you do. &#160;&#160; I suggest that we suspend the sitting for a few minutes while we wait for the Council representative to arrive.
It is on this clear and consistent basis that our policy is developed, and on which we have launched an appeal to our partners in the Middle East.
Hamas, in particular, will have to become aware of the fork in the road and come to a decision as to which path it wants to take in future.
We are, then, with a great deal of attention, following developments, the efforts being made to put together a new Palestinian Government, and its future programme.
Turning to the Balkans, this issue was and is an important one for the Austrian Presidency, and I therefore regard the Gymnich meeting and its engagement with it as a message of encouragement, even in a dual sense of the term, addressed to the people of the states of the Western Balkans.
For it was important, particularly at a time when people are talking in terms of 'enlargement fatigue', that this signal should be sent out in order to give our partners a good idea of what to expect in view of the extremely difficult decisions that we will have to take in 2006.
Javier Solana, who has been keeping an eye on developments for a long time, describes what has been achieved since Thessaloniki in 2003 as a success story capable of being read on the agenda, and, more specifically on the order of business for the Salzburg meeting, since the issues with which this meeting concerned itself were issues of easier and improved trading arrangement, the fight against organised crime, young people and the facilitation of easier travel.
We also, though, have to make clear to them what options are open to us, and join with them in seeking, step by step, solutions to the problems that remain outstanding in this area and elsewhere.
We have stressed the need for regional cooperation, especially in view of the work being done on a regional free trade area, with a single free trade agreement, based on CEFTA, intended to replace 31 individual agreements.
The Council and the Commission are working on this hand in hand and side by side in the best sense of the word.
I wish to thank the Commission for its communication at the end of January, and also for their willingness to join us in continuing to work towards the achievement of the goals set out in the Salzburg statement.
We also discussed the topic of the EU’s assimilation capacity and explored its implications.
I have to say that my group and I are very embarrassed by the conduct of certain Member States, which are making themselves culpable for the way in which the business of making Europe fit for the accession of new Member States is being played off against the Balkan countries’ prospects of accession.
Europe will not, however, be made any stronger by the Balkan countries being robbed of their prospects of accession or seeing them deferred to the distant future.
Perfectly understandable though it is that demand should be made for the EU to be made more capable of welcoming new members – I am thinking here of the constitution and of the financial basis – this cannot be used against the countries of South-Eastern Europe and as a means of fending off their efforts at accession.
The preparation of both sides must be consistent and thorough, and while it is in progress, practical action needs to be taken to prepare the countries of the Balkans for accession to the European Union, not least by making visa arrangements simpler and easier.
The countries of the Balkans, which have so often in the course of our continent’s history been the playthings of the European Great Powers, must progressively be integrated into the European Union.
We defend the Balkan countries’ prospects of membership of the European Union. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I had hoped that a strong and positive message would have come out of the Balkan Conference.
The joint press statement, notably weaker than previous declarations, states that the future of the western Balkans lies in the European Union.
Allow me to comment on the Middle East.
The statement is a compromise, one, insubstantial though it is, that is given a critical hearing in the Balkans and was in no way a sign of encouragement, but at best invited misinterpretation.
On the one hand, there is the situation with which both sides in the Holy Land itself are presenting us; on the other, there is the issue of how probable it is that Iran will be deterred from a military nuclear programme.
Perhaps, Madam President-in-Office, I might be permitted to address another aspect of great significance in some areas, that being the issue of the European Union’s mission to the Congo.
I would be very interested to know whether there is already a mandate in place for this, setting out what it is to do and for how long and over what geographical area it is to do it, and whether the Congolese authorities have officially invited such a project and the European Union’s participation in it.
We do all have an interest in the region being stabilised and democratised, and the EU really has an opportunity to play an important role.
At the same time, we are also talking about different countries with different traditions, different histories and different degrees of development.
It is therefore important that we keep sending out the message that all these countries are welcome to apply for membership of the European Community if they wish to do so and that, in that case, they will be treated on their own merits.
I believe that that anxiety is exaggerated, but it is very important to be extremely clear on the point that has been made, namely that each country is to be treated on its own merits.
There is no room for compromise on this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on Saturday, the Union’s Foreign Affairs Ministers redefined the European prospects of the Western Balkans and stipulated that the ultimate objective of the stabilisation and association process under way with those countries is no less than accession to the European Union.
They have therefore gone further than the Thessaloniki declaration of 2003, which talked about the great challenge represented by the integration of the five countries of the Balkans and their eventual accession to the Union.
The MEPs from the UMP agree with this vision and this prospect and are convinced that, without the Balkans, European unification is not complete.
Finally, for years, the MEPs from the UMP have been calling for an in-depth debate within the European Union on the subject of Europe’s borders.
We must look reality in the face and make a mature choice on the future of the European Union, in terms of political content and geographical borders.
We must take on our responsibilities. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, while I would like to endorse what Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck said about my group’s stance on Israel’s policy over the past few days, I would also like to respond to what you said about the importance of this transitional stage.
It is one in which the EU should send out a clear message highlighting the principles of cooperation, those being renunciation of violence, acceptance of existing agreements and the recognition of Israel’s right to exist.
Secondly, let me say how grateful I am to you for having, in Salzburg, argued in favour of the other South-East European states being given the prospect of accession.
I do indeed believe that we must not budge on this; there must be no doubt whatever about the fact that the states of South-Eastern Europe are indeed European, and that they are entitled to become full members of the European Union as soon as all the criteria have been satisfied – which includes the enlargement criterion that applies to us.
The time was ripe for a debate on enlargement, and the one we had in Salzburg went well.
And so I am glad we had this debate, not least also that we gave attention to the frustrations felt by the states of the Western Balkans.
We have emphasised the need for appropriate action to restore peace and order; we have said that Israel’s use of force in Jericho and the activity by Palestinian extremists in response to it are both capable of further destabilising a situation in the Middle East that is already tense.
It has to be said that, while we are willing to give aid – aid of a humanitarian nature, that is – such aid can be effective only in a peaceful environment, and all parties must play their part in creating one. &#160;&#160; .
I will comment on the next agenda item: issues related to enlargement and absorption capacity.
I should also like to use this opportunity to congratulate Mrs Plassnik on her personal commitment to the policy on the western Balkans.
All participants in the debate have recognised that the road ahead for the western Balkans is a challenging one and that many reforms must be implemented before the countries meet the required criteria.
It is equally clear that there is a consensus in this House on the absolutely fundamental role the European Union plays and is bound to play in the western Balkans through a credible accession perspective – albeit a medium- to long-term perspective – but a credible accession perspective.
That is the driving force behind the reforms and that is the basis of our work on security and stability.
Especially with a view to the Kosovo status process, we all have to be extremely responsible as regards the western Balkans and its stability.
The key objectives to work for are security, stability and progress in the western Balkans. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0025/2006) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the Commission’s 2005 enlargement strategy paper (2005/2206(INI)). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, right up to the present day, the enlargement of the European Union has been the most successful aspect of its foreign policy, for it was a means of extending the area of stability and peace in Europe, and also of further advancing the cause of peace, freedom, human rights and the rule of law.
This is an important point, and one of which we must not lose sight either now or in the future.
It also has to be clear to us, though, that stability is an achievable goal only if the European Union is strong enough to develop the ability to master these tasks; that, for example, was why the Constitutional Treaty was a retrospective attempt at really making the addition of ten new Member States workable in institutional terms and in terms of the objectives involved, and the reason why we are in such difficulties now is that the ratification process is going nowhere.
We also have to realise that the European Union's capacity for accepting new members is one of the essential aspects of the Copenhagen criteria, although there are good reasons why that has been purely declaratory in nature.
It is for that reason that we ask the Commission, by the end of the year, to define what is meant by the European Union’s absorption capacity with reference to this and this will enable us to make use of it.
I also think that we have to make it clear to just what extent the European Union is capable of accepting new members, and that this can affect the ‘yes or no?’ decision at the end of the day.
If this project is to be credible, something between the two is needed, something with which these countries can have the prospect of full membership held out to them, without us being put under unrealistic pressure to give it to them at once.
This should be open to every state that is not currently a Member State of the European Union.
If I may be permitted to talk in terms of a ‘European Economic Area plus’, then there is much that can be done with such a multilateral project in the fields of the internal market, internal and external security, environmental policy and much else besides.
If states that, today, have the prospect of accession held out to them post-Thessaloniki – such as for example the countries of the Western Balkans, whose development is expected to take different periods of time – should decide to use it as an interim stage to full membership, then what was promised at Thessaloniki would not be made void.
It is on this basis that we can achieve a new degree of flexibility by making this prospect credible, for things can happen at once without the intervening fifteen years of negotiations, and then we will have to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’.
As has been reported, we had in Gymnich a very good and thorough debate on this subject, and we will continue with it.
It is because we need public support for the enlargement process that we have to improve the flow of information and our public relations work, while also explaining the individual steps better.
Every step in enlargement, every new accession requires two participants, one of them being the European Union, and the other the country that is to become a Member State.
We can also have confidence in the expert knowledge that we gained during the last enlargement and should be determined to apply the knowledge of transformation that we have on a partnership basis.
As was said in the earlier debate, ownership, too, underlines European standards, which, though fair, must be stringently complied with, as was made unmistakeably clear in the Commission’s report in November 2005.
In this debate, though, we should also be honest about the expectations people have of the European Union, not least the expectations of the people who live in it.
Moreover, I urge a more nuanced approach to each individual country, for we need to be fair in our dealings with each and every one of them, and we must make that a certainty.
Turkey and Croatia’s accession negotiations have begun; the starting pistol was officially fired on 3&#160;October last year.
We share your House’s view that continued progress in the fulfilment of all the political and economic criteria and in the effective realisation of fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy is required.
As regards Turkey, we in the presidency welcomed the closure of the Orhan Pamuk case and made it clear, at the recent meeting of the troika in Vienna, that we expect the trials still pending under Article 301 of the Turkish Penal Code to be dealt with similarly, or, indeed, the law to be changed.
We, too, are closely monitoring the implementation of the Ankara protocol and will ensure that it is reviewed this year in the relevant bodies and in accordance with the Council statement of 21&#160;September 2005.
Our gradual and carefully managed accession process is based on three key principles.
First, we have consolidated our enlargement agenda.
It means that we must be cautious before taking any new commitments, but likewise we must stick to our prevailing commitments towards candidate or potential candidate countries already in the process.
Our consolidated enlargement agenda focuses on south-east Europe: Bulgaria and Romania, and Turkey and Croatia and the other countries of the western Balkans.
More recently, it has inspired bold and significant reforms in Turkey and increasingly in the western Balkans.
This is also proven by some recent important events, as General Ante Gotovina is behind bars in The Hague, while the novelist Orhan Pamuk is free to express his opinions.
Furthermore, the Commission is ready to deepen further and upgrade cooperation with our neighbourhood partners once the main priorities in the current action plans have been properly addressed.
Certainly, the pace of enlargement must take into consideration the EU’s absorption capacity.
The Union must ensure that it can maintain its capacity to act and decide according to a fair balance within its institutions, respecting budgetary limits and implementing common policies that function well and achieve their goals.
For over three decades, the EU has successfully absorbed a very diverse set of countries, as we can see from the composition of this House, for instance, including the President in the Chair in charge of this debate and the Commissioner involved.
I rely on the political and financial support of Parliament to pursue a well-informed debate on enlargement.
To conclude, consolidation was necessary to avoid overstretching on our enlargement commitments.
But let us also keep in mind our own strategic interest: it would be utterly irresponsible to disrupt a valuable process that is helping to build stable and effective partners in the most unstable parts of Europe.
If we were to go wobbly about the western Balkans’ European perspective, our beneficial influence, our political leverage, our impact would be seriously eroded, just when the region enters a difficult period of talks on Kosovo’s status.
The EU perspective is the key to a sustainable settlement for Kosovo and to democratic development in Serbia and the rest of the region.
It is the foundation that keeps the region on a peaceful and reformist track.
Therefore, for the sake of Europe, let us not shake this foundation, ensuring that the still fragile Balkans building does not collapse at our feet, in our own front yard! &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I should like to start by congratulating the rapporteur and chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Brok, on his very important report and, at the same time, congratulate you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, for the interest and the decisiveness which you demonstrate, both as the Austrian Minister of Foreign Affairs and as President-in-Office of the Council, on the question of the Balkans.
I should very quickly like to make the following comments: Firstly, the central view in the Brok report on the importance of the European prospects of a number of countries, most of which are in the Balkans, is correct.
At the same time, paragraphs 5, 9 and 10 of the report, if read together, give the reference point on the basis of which the European Union now sees future enlargements.
The Protocol alone – I repeat the Protocol alone – must be ratified, not the unilateral declaration, and, of course, the question of updating the legal framework within which this country operates.
As far as Kosovo is concerned, I agree that attention should be paid during negotiations to its final status, but we also need to prepare ourselves for how the decision taken on the final status of Kosovo is to be applied.
Whilst the addition of ten new countries in 2004 was a success, not all citizens see it that way.
The Social&#160;Democrats are emphatically in favour of the extra attention that is being devoted to the criterion of absorption capacity.
Without internal reforms, it will be difficult to steer the accession of new Member States effectively.
As expressed in previous resolutions, we take the view that the Treaty of Nice is not a basis for new decisions on accession.
There is, however, more need for more clarity surrounding the concept of absorption capacity, as laid down in the Copenhagen criteria, and the report is right to devote attention to this aspect too.
I should like to take this opportunity to outline where the Social Democrats stand in respect of the possible accession of various countries.
As far as our easterly neighbours Ukraine and Moldova are concerned, we think that now is not the right time to discuss their accession.
We have concluded action plans with those countries, and we should try to bring them to a successful end.
With regard to the Balkans, we back the Council’s position.
In principle, the western Balkan countries hold out the prospect of membership, although they will join at different times.
We are on the eve of starting a process that will last many years, and it is extremely important that we hold firm to the pledge, but also to the conditions, that we prescribed in this connection.
While I am on the subject of the Balkans, I should like to add that, whilst it goes without saying that the Copenhagen criteria remain of vital importance to us, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament continues to set great store by cooperation with the Yugoslavia tribunal as a criterion.
I also think – and there has been much talk about it – that regional cooperation can make a significant contribution to the of those countries to the European Union.
Finally – and this may well be the most important point of the whole discussion – the report mentions the possibility of setting up a fresh multilateral framework for European countries that have not yet joined the European Union.
For Ukraine and Moldova, for example, a structure of that kind could be a sound follow-up step, but for the countries that are already recognised as potential members, I would stress that this is an option, and not an obligation.
This is also how it is set out quite clearly in the Brok report.
It is in that way, and no other, that we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have reached agreement with the rapporteur. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, enlargement is the EU’s greatest success in terms of European cooperation.
The unification of East and West in May 2004 marked the end of the division of Europe and showed what power there is in the dream of a unified Europe based on democracy, free trade and respect for the rule of law.
The prospects of EU membership are also hugely important to the negotiations and reforms in Turkey and the Balkan states.
In these regions, the EU has incredible reserves of what is known as soft power and which contributes to a more stable and more democratic Europe.
I am aware of the fact that there is an ongoing debate in many countries and concern about the rapid pace of EU enlargement and about the way in which things might develop.
That conversation must be conducted respectfully and straightforwardly, but we must also dare to stand up for the advantages of enlargement and to call attention to these.
In that context, the debate about economic protectionism is extremely worrying.
We must also keep the door open for other countries such as Ukraine and perhaps also, one day, Belarus, even though the situation there now is incredibly troubled.
If we establish borders for Europe, they will interpret this in terms of our slamming the door in their face.
Instead of introducing new concepts such as multilateral agreements, let us – as Commissioner Rehn also said – take the opportunity to customise the neighbourhood strategy for prospective Member States and to give practical shape to it.
We think that the concept of absorption capacity should be better defined.
I am not, therefore, talking about Turkey or the western Balkans, but rather about Ukraine, Moldova or Belarus.
I have to say that my group and I were deeply disappointed, and extremely vexed frankly, to see that in the run-up to this debate, the media twisted the words in the report, the result running counter to a number of central points.
If we read the media ahead of this debate, the ultimate conclusion is that an intermediate step should be created for countries including Turkey and the western Balkans.
The rapporteur is fully entitled to his view, but that is not the view of the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
It would become the rapporteur to spell out, outside of this Chamber, what is in his report, and does not mistake its contents for notions of his own.
What Parliament states in this report is that we do not want to tamper with the membership perspective of Turkey and the western Balkans and that intermediate steps would only be an option for those countries if they themselves were to decide in favour of it.
Everyone knows just as well as I do that all those western Balkan countries and Turkey do not want to go down that route; they want full membership.
Public opinion in the old Member States does not experience this enlargement as a success, particularly as a result of the increasing exploitation of the disparity between high-wage and low-wage countries.
This change is palpable in the report on the enlargement strategy that is the topic of today’s debate.
As a result, Romania and Bulgaria are likely to be the last countries that are allowed to join in the short term.
Even for the three countries that have already been selected as candidate countries, no date of accession has been given.
Everywhere across the western Balkans, in recognised states, as well as in federal states or protectorates striving towards independence, where groups of people who speak different languages and practise different religions, and who, in the 1990s, were at daggers drawn with each other, public opinion now expects miracles of a swift accession process to the European Union.
The EU does not, for the time being, want enlargement, but it does want influence outside of its borders.
That is why Bosnia and Herzegovina now have a tax system that nobody asked for, and the regional autonomy that was guaranteed in the Dayton agreement is being pushed back.
According to the propaganda posters, it is thanks to the EU’s military presence that this country is on its way to joining the European Union.
Public opinion in Montenegro and Kosovo, areas where four years ago, along with 12 Member States, the euro was introduced as legal tender, take it as read that they will soon be admitted to the EU as independent states, while the Hungarian-speaking people of Vojvodina expect protection against Slav dominance.
We also recognise, however, that thanks to this text, it is possible to stress that the forthcoming referendum in Montenegro must be taken seriously and that the conflict about the use of the name Macedonia should be resolved quickly in sound consultation between Greece and its northern neighbour.
An identical murder was attempted very recently in the town of Mersin and direct threats are against churches via the telephone or even in newspaper columns.
As far as I can gather, no progress whatsoever is being made with regard to this important item of the political criteria of Copenhagen.
I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he has taken Prime Minister Erdogan and Minister Gul to task over this Turkish chauvinism, which is completely incompatible with European values. &#160;&#160; . (Mr President, it is very important that the report drafted by Mr Elmar Brok has today provided us with the opportunity to speak about enlargement.
We definitely need to strengthen the Neighbourhood Policy and we need a new, more serious relationship between the Union and the countries with which it shares its borders.
New forms of cooperation as proposed in the report cannot, however, close the door to membership.
However, in the very same report we see the development and strengthening of views on enlargement in terms of absorption capacity.
If absorption capacity is to be based on acceptance of the Constitutional Treaty, then one could have the impression that the authors of this text definitely want to close the door to everyone.
Today, this same Parliament is proving to be the most conservative and passive of bodies.
This begs the question: why? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to draw your attention to a few imperfections and contradictions in the report on Turkey.
As Mr Belder explained in detail a moment ago, there are violations of the rights of national and religious minorities.
Torture is still rife, and based on Article 301 of the criminal law among others, the free expression of opinion and freedom of the press cannot be guaranteed.
Also, Turkey blatantly fails to meet its obligations in connection with the customs union.
Over the past weeks, we have also noticed tension escalating between the Turkish authorities and certain Kurdish groups.
Some of the military see this indictment as a ploy directed by the government, which would like to destabilise the general in question on account of his attitude towards Muslim fundamentalism.
In some quarters, the possibility of a fresh military coup is even mooted, should the situation escalate any further.
We should, in fact, come clean and say that it is totally absurd.
The report is right to remind us that the Copenhagen criteria include our own absorption capacity.
On that basis alone, we should reverse the decision to open negotiations with Turkey. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, speaking as chairperson of the delegation for South-Eastern Europe, let me say that I wholeheartedly endorse what Mr Brok’s report has to say about each individual country and what it demands of them.
To do so would send an important message of stabilisation to the entire region, since Croatia's achievements in both the political and economic spheres are in no respect inferior to those of the next two accession countries.
Commissioner Rehn himself said earlier on that this is a question that has to be answered, and it is precisely this that has the public worried.
For all the other countries, we have devised the new instrument of the Neighbourhood Policy and must get to grips with it.
For ten years we have been saying that there must be no enlargement without institutional reform of the EU, but the Council did not begin to do justice to that until after the last enlargement, and for that we were all punished by the results of the referendums in France and the Netherlands.
We must waste no time in laying hold of the necessary instruments, for which, of course, the Constitutional Treaty makes provision, and use them to restore our capacity to welcome new members.
If we do not want to jeopardise what has been up to now our great commitment to the Balkans, we must remain consistent and purposeful in continuing to bring these countries closer to the EU.
I very much welcome what both Commissioner Rehn and Mrs Plassnik have had to say on this subject.
That was and remains an important motor for change in the aftermath of the terrible conflicts in the former Yugoslavia and of Ever Hoxha’s dictatorship in Albania.
The 1990s saw us all experiencing and suffering the opposite of that, but I do fear – and I can tell the President-in-Office of the Council that the vagueness and imprecision of what was said in Salzburg gives me reason to – that certain Europeans are intent on leaving the South-East European states in the lurch a second time, and that is what we cannot allow to happen. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I welcome the change of perspective that is set out in Mr Brok’s report.
Our debates can no longer be about our preference for one country rather than another; instead, we must, at last, face up to the question as to what sort of political system the European Union can actually afford if it is to become better able to take decisions and act on them.
The Copenhagen criteria make reference to the concept of ‘assimilation capacity’, while not, however, defining it.
While I have listened attentively to what the Commissioner has said, he can correct me if I am wrong, but I have not heard him say anything about this.
Inherent in the decision as to what is a criterion of capacity to assimilate is the potential source of dissent between us and the Commission.
Among the important criteria are that the European Union should be funded in such a way as to have a viable future and its being accepted by the people who live in it.
If we are to talk in terms of credibility, that credibility, and the criteria that can properly be applied to capacity to assimilate, require that it should not be possible for another country to accede for the foreseeable future once Bulgaria and Romania have done so.
We have to be very clear in our own minds that the belief that a country’s accession will resolve tensions and internal security problems is an erroneous one.
Such tensions and problems must be resolved before accession negotiations start. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Brok report asks pertinent questions and provides answers, even though I do not agree with all of them.
That is why such great store is set by absorption capacity, which, if the report were to be approved without any amendments, would even be given a geographical dimension.
I take the view that vagueness about eventual membership and a fleshing out of the criteria will only delay the process, because this vagueness would be used as an excuse, from which nobody stands to benefit. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report calls for the geographical boundaries of the European Union to be determined and its nature defined.
I would like to remind the House that, a few years ago, political scientists and analysts could not imagine that the day would come when the Iron Curtain would no longer be there.
The other thing I would like to say is that everyone has been talking about the need for the Ankara protocol to be implemented, and they are right to do so, but what also has to be said is that Turkey and Northern Cyprus are also in favour of a solution, and we have given undertakings.
The point on Kosovo, with its hazy wording, reflects the doublespeak within the Union and the trend towards gradual disengagement from the clear requirements of UN resolution 1244.
Finally, my political group supports, among other things, Amendment 19 on a mutually acceptable resolution of the problem with the name of the FYROM and the revised Amendment 4 on Cyprus. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the first question we need to debate is, where does Europe end?
We no longer know where Europe is: we have reached Diabakir and, if tomorrow the Americans tell us that Iraq needs to join Europe for reasons of equilibrium, shall we reach the Indian Ocean?
Of course, it is not very smart to have to tell our friends the Turks that they must not insult the President of the European Parliament.
We do not need prefects in order to develop our own initiatives. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, the enlargement of the European Union to date has without a doubt been a successful formula, since it has fostered reforms in many states by extending the area of peace, stability and the rule of law in Europe.
Further enlargement of the European Union is necessary, but we will have to find new mechanisms and ways which will lead the European Union out of the impasse of its current capacity to absorb new states.
Certainly, by defining precise criteria the European Commission must develop this concept of absorption capacity.
In addition to the possibility of full membership we also need to offer various forms of multilateral cooperation and partnership with countries which, at least in the short term, will not be able to join the European Union.
Here I would like to express my full agreement with what Mr&#160;Brok said.
This could be a way to draw in Turkey, Ukraine and the Balkans for example, and later on, other countries to the path of reform and European values. &#160;&#160; (Mr President, it is a myth that, without further enlargement, the Union will be strong and competitive.
Let us simply focus on priorities when it comes to enlargement.
The countries of South-Eastern Europe should be in line after Romania and Bulgaria, which should accede to the European Union in 2007 and not 2008.
The resolution of permanent conflicts in this part of Europe costs more than it would cost to have these states in Europe and thereby have them following the political and economic rules of play of the EU.
If our Union is to be more effective economically and is not to fall behind in relation to America and Asia, it should progressively abolish the division of Europe into two parts: Europe A, or in other words the European Union, and Europe B, meaning all that which is not part of the Union.
An invitation to accession negotiations, even without the prospect of joining the Union in the near future, is like the starter’s flag that is raised at the start of a motor race.
Parliament’s motion for a resolution rightly highlights the fact that it is precisely this impulse that supported reforms in Turkey, Croatia and the Western Balkan states.
Yes, enlargement is expensive, particularly in the short term, but it is a worthwhile investment in the long term. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome this generally positive report by Mr&#160;Brok.
I welcome its boldness in recognising the fact that the western Balkans should be an integral part of the European Union in the future.
I am convinced that we have to respect our commitments; we cannot close the doors to those countries that were offered a membership perspective or to those countries that deserve such a perspective in future in the light of the EU Treaty provisions.
It is perfectly possible to open the doors to Croatia without the Constitutional Treaty.
Croatia should not be a victim or hostage of our problems with the Constitutional Treaty.
Various considerations should not be used as an alibi for inaction or for closing the doors to countries that will one day merit membership, such as Ukraine.
However, today we face the question of whether the European Union is capable of further enlargement and of really opening up while also facing the problem of how to define the character of the European Union, including its geographic borders.
Absorption capacity is currently complicated by the impasse in the ratification process of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe and by the obstacles on the path to the deeper political and strategic integration of the 25 Member States of the European Union.
At the same time, over the next few years, the institutions of the European Union have to implement enlargement strategies that are based on strictly defined terms that take into account the European Union’s obligations towards Turkey, Croatia and all the Western Balkan states.
It is indeed the case that, as regards Bulgaria and Romania, the decisions have been taken, but we have to consider the possibility of treating them separately if their performance so warrants.
It is quite possible that negotiations with Turkey will produce an outcome other than full membership, and here comes a key sentence: ‘We will no longer go along with the progressive softening-up of the accession criteria,’ say the German Social Democrats, and we German Free Democrats agree with them one hundred per cent.
Assimilation capacity is also defined; here, the main problem is that the European Union’s capacity to assimilate the new members is in part dependent on the agreement in principle of the people in the Member States.
If we want them to remain good and faithful citizens of the European Union, we will have to take their wishes into account. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I very much appreciate the references in Mr Brok’s report to the need to respect fundamental rights and freedoms, notably the rights of minorities in Turkey, Croatia and the western Balkan countries.
The European Free Alliance Group has called upon the European institutions to urge the Turkish Government to improve its policy on ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities.
Two weeks ago the parents of Derwich Ferho, the prominent human rights defender and President of the Kurdish Institute based in Brussels, were killed.
I am for further enlargement, but I am for enlargement based strictly on the Copenhagen criteria. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as far as paragraph 29 of the report is concerned, the Council decision to block financial aid to the Turkish Cypriots was a development in the right direction and for that I should like to thank the minister.
As far as the question of trade is concerned, it can still be addressed within the framework of the recent agreement on discussions of a package of confidence-building measures.
In their joint statement after their meeting in Paris, the UN Secretary General and President Papadopoulos stated, among other things, that it would be beneficial for all concerned and would greatly improve the atmosphere for further talks if progress could be achieved on further disengagement of forces and demilitarisation on the Island, on the complete de-mining of Cyprus and on the issue of Famagusta.
Unfortunately, however, Turkey and the Turkish-Cypriot leadership have not yet taken a position on this specific issue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first our misguided rapporteur welcomes the fact that the Commission strategy paper ‘advocates an outward-looking Union’.
Far from sending shiploads of money to Eastern Europe, they would do better to make sure that the prosperity of Europe as a whole is not compromised.
I fear a great deal of disappointment lies ahead for them. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, members of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, in particular those from Germany and Austria, congratulations!
Rather than doing as you used to do, and using populism as a club – the term is your own – with which to beat your former party leaders or leading candidates, you have now hit yourselves over the head with it.
With a proper perspective, things can move forward, but they certainly cannot if we carry on beating about the bush in the way we have been. &#160;&#160; Mr President, enlargements have been beneficial to the European Union; not only the people of the newly admitted countries, but also, certainly, those in the others too, have done well out of them.
It is precisely those people who have always advocated this enlargement that have to communicate this very information on enlargement, while at the same time keeping an eye on the balance between enlarging and deepening, for this balance is lopsided at present.
The Treaty of Nice was not really good enough for 25, and it will certainly not be enough when another two countries, namely Romania and Bulgaria, join us shortly.
I think it would be good for us to commit ourselves to putting our own house in order first with a new treaty before we accept two more countries.
Secondly, I think it important that countries on the edge should not wait for the European Union to finish its homework before they can start the deepening process with a kind of partnership.
If they wish to become true members, and Europe appears to be able to cope, moving closer towards membership could then be the next step for them.
This report does not in any way detract from the rights of candidate countries that have this status at the moment, and I should like to make this quite clear.
This credibility, however, must also go hand in hand with us attaching credibility to the criteria.
This means, and Mrs&#160;Plassnik is right in saying, that Turkey must monitor the free expression of opinion, not only for the sake of this one author, but also for others, that freedom of religion must be guaranteed and also that we make progress where Cyprus is concerned.
Therefore, we want to see a considerable increase in available funds.
Thirdly: when assessing each country, we must consider their individual achievements, and en bloc or collective assessments of any kind cannot be accepted, because these countries must show their maturity individually.
Croatia has done a great deal in order to become a Member State of the European Union as soon as possible.
We must recognise these efforts, because Croatia deserves to conclude the negotiations successfully, as soon as possible. &#160;&#160; – First of all, I would like to thank Mr Brok for his very constructive and logical report.
I am sure that if the European Union was able to formulate its position on all matters in this way, it would certainly be better supported and understood by its citizens.
I entirely agree that the European Union's expansion strategy has undoubtedly encouraged democratic, political and other reforms in Turkey and the other states mentioned in the resolution.
This is the exact reply I received yesterday from Commissioner Rehn to my verbal question on the implementation of the European Parliament's resolution on the start of negotiations with Turkey.
This is also indicated in the draft resolution we have debated today, that is, that the pace of reforms in Turkey in 2005 was not only insufficient, but it actually has slowed down.
This may be interpreted as Turkey's unpreparedness to carry out reforms which would bring it closer to the European Union, or perhaps even as an unwillingness to commit itself to the elementary obligations of possible membership.
I also share the regret expressed in Mr Brok's report and in the resolution over the unilateral declaration made by Turkey when signing the Additional Protocol to the Ankara Agreement.
I believe that it is necessary to remind Turkey that recognition of all European Union Member States is an indispensable component of the accession process.
True, what I am about to say is not in the report, but I am sure that the acts of genocide committed against the Armenian nation 90 years ago should be recognised by Turkey at the highest level, as this more than any other action would bear testimony to the fact that Turkey's position, even regarding these painful events of the past, is in tune with the spirit of the Copenhagen criteria. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Brok report does not define anything concrete in respect of ethnic minorities.
The European Union often uses double or even triple standards when it requires and expects something completely different from two candidate states, while it hardly ever calls to account its own Member States in matters regarding ethnic minorities.
Following an armed insurrection, Albanians living in Macedonia were given administrative and even territorial autonomy of the widest extent, while in the case of Romania, the European Union does not press for territorial autonomy for the almost one million Hungarians living in Székely Land.
Commissioner Olli Rehn knows very well that there is no solution without autonomy for Swedish-speaking Finns in Finland, and there cannot be a solution in the Balkans or for the Kurds living in Turkey, either. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we need to be particularly honest and accept that the enlargement strategy is not the reason for the current institutional crisis in the European Union.
Within this framework, the message sent by the Austrian Presidency and the meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs in Salzburg on the final objective of the integration of the countries of the Western Balkans into the European Union is indeed especially important.
We are saying yes to the integration of the countries and no to special relationships.
Finally, as far as Cyprus is concerned, I believe that the time has come for political initiatives to be taken to create necessary political and social osmosis at the level of civil society between the Greek Cypriots and the Turkish Cypriots.
The role of catalyst belongs to the European Union. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, rapporteur Mr Brok has done thorough work in showing the countries of the western Balkans the path to the European Union.
It is my duty as leader of the Moldova delegation, however, to remind us all of the fact that there are two countries even closer to the heart of Europe which need the promise of European Union membership just as much as the Balkan countries and Turkey.
The European Parliament has clearly expressed its support for the aspirations of Ukraine and Moldova to become candidates for membership of the European Union.
Ukraine has also recently shown that it wishes to become a European country.
At the same time, I agree with Elmar Brok that the European Commission should define the nature of accession capacity as soon as possible.
This should not be a vague excuse for rejecting countries wishing to accede to the European Union.
That is why neither geographers nor historians nor rulers will be any use to us in the political decisions that we have to take; what will decide the issues will be the common will of those who share in this community of values and laws, namely us and – as is the norm in democracies – the people themselves.
Looked at objectively, 3 October last year saw the taking of political decisions with far-reaching implications; what is ahead of us now – ‘us’ being the Council and the Commission with our partners around the world – is a period of quietly working on the issues.
I believe we are working on Europe as a peace project, on its reunification, on the overcoming of the East/West divide, on doing away with the division created by Communism.
If I may turn to Turkey, to which many Members made reference, in the currently ongoing process, the Commission and the Council are addressing not only the progress Turkey has made with its reform process, but also, and quite specifically and directly, what remains to be done in such areas as religious freedom and the free expression of opinion.
Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner and I were recently on a troika mission in Ukraine together, and I can give you the same message that I gave there: it is that Europe, the European Union, would like to see a stable, self-confident and successful Ukraine, but, above all, a Ukraine that faces up to the task of transformation and tackles it with determination.
The European Neighbourhood Policy and the action plan that is about to be reviewed for the first time during the Austrian Presidency provide us with a good and appropriate array of instruments.
For instance, the accession negotiations with Turkey are likely to take 10 to 15 years.
I do not expect anyone seriously to question our existing commitments in South-East Europe because it is really a matter of our own security and stability that we can enhance peace, democracy and increase prosperity in that very sensitive area.
Concerning the borders of Europe, the Commission works on the basis of Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union, which states that any European country that respects and applies the European values of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms may apply for membership of the Union.
That does not mean that every European country must apply or that the EU must accept every country, but at the same time it means that it is not sensible to close the door forever by drawing a line across the map to define Europe once and for all, which would seriously damage our possibilities of having a beneficial influence and strategic leverage in our immediate neighbourhood.
Meanwhile, although no final borders of the Union have yet been determined, the EU is developing other forms of partnership and cooperation with our neighbouring countries, for instance in the form of the European Neighbourhood Policy, which can be further developed and upgraded.
A few comments and points have been made concerning absorption capacity.
That concept was first explicitly mentioned in Copenhagen in 1993 when the European Council stated that the Union’s capacity to absorb new members, while maintaining the momentum of European integration, is also an important consideration in the general interests of both the Union and the candidate countries.
In its Agenda 2000 – and I am happy to refer to that because I was a member of the Steering Group for Agenda 2000, which was adopted in 1997 – the Commission examined the impact of the accession of central and eastern European countries from two angles: its impact on EU policies such as agriculture or regional policy, and its budgetary consequences.
As a result, this work led to the setting of critical parameters in the negotiations that followed, in the decisions of March 1999 at the Berlin Summit and in 2003, when the countries of eastern and central Europe were allowed to join the European Union.
I would recommend this paper of October 2004 to all Members of the European Parliament.
It is still worth reading and outlines very well the broad consequences of possible Turkish accession to the Union if, one day, Turkey meets all the conditions for accession.
Thus, the upsurge in capacity is an important concept, and it has also been referred to in the negotiating frameworks for Turkey and Croatia.
I can assure you that we bear this in mind throughout the negotiations, and it is also a leading concept in our strategy document of last November.
Finally, referring to what Mr Eurlings said about deepening and widening, I belong to the camp that thinks that the deepening of political integration is indispensable in order to make the European Union more effective and democratic.
Therefore, we need a constitutional debate and, in time – sooner rather than later – we need to decide on how we reform our structures so that they are more effective and democratic and so that the European Union can have more clout in external relations, in Common Foreign and Security Policy and in preserving the security of its own citizens against international crime and terrorism.
Therefore, rather than talk about absorption capacity, I would prefer to talk about the functioning capacity of the current European Union to ensure that we serve our citizens better in terms of both policies and institutions. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; – Mr Brok’s report is comprehensive and complete in terms of the current state of enlargement, and takes account of countries that are undoubtedly making genuine efforts to meet the political and economic goals requested for accession to the European Union.
In particular, we agree with the invitation to Croatia to ‘resolve on-going bilateral issues, particularly […] property related ones’, but regret to note that no reference is made to problems concerning changes to that country’s law in relation to access to the property market by Community citizens, specifically Italians and exiles from Giulia and Dalmatia.
No EU citizen can be prevented from taking up residence in a Member State and having access to the property market.
Mindful of its failure to comply with a principle of freedom now accepted by all Member States, and although we are voting in favour of the report, we would request that Croatia be requested to remedy this serious breach which, if it continued, would make it impossible for us to support its accession. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on mergers in the internal market. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a debate that will naturally be dominated largely by the Commissioner’s speech.
I shall therefore confine myself to just a few remarks on behalf of the Council, as we are convinced that, in applying the new provisions and the EU competition rules, the Commission is showing great responsibility towards achieving the objectives of competition policy in line with the Lisbon Strategy.
The sector studies that the Commission is already preparing and wishes to carry out in further depth form a crucial basis for this, and the issue of market definition is also significant in this regard.
It is important to bear in mind that the medium- and long-term aspects should also be taken into consideration when making decisions on mergers.
The economy is not static but dynamic, and so enterprises are faced with the daily challenge of arming themselves for the future and remaining competitive.
Competitiveness also has a considerable impact on the labour market, therefore, and presupposes effective competition.
There must be no distortion of competition in the internal market: that is one of the essential bases for the success of the European economy.
Reorganisation such as this is welcome in so far as it meets the requirements of dynamic competition and is likely to increase the competitiveness of European industry by improving conditions for economic growth and by raising the standard of living in the Community.
It also holds true, however, that jobs can only be safeguarded in the long term if enterprises are competitive.
In this connection, we should actively pursue a pan-European competition policy in the context of the four fundamental freedoms.
Another important task of competition policy is ensuring that instances of reorganisation and concentration cannot result in permanent damage to competition.
That is why, as you know, Community law comprises provisions regarding concentrations that could distort competition either throughout or in a large part of the common market.
Open and competitive markets are key drivers for growth and jobs in Europe.
Companies that are successful players in the European market are also well placed to compete globally.
The Commission will always look with concern at any attempt by national governments, directly or indirectly, to interfere unduly in the process of cross-border corporate restructuring in Europe.
The Treaty enshrines the principle that there should be no unjustified impediment to the fundamental freedoms it establishes – in particular the free movement of capital – or to the right of establishment within it.
To deny this possibility to companies as a matter of principle or by failing to implement correctly the provisions of the EC sectoral legislation introducing competition in the markets – such as energy, telecoms and financial services – would amount to a serious restriction of their ability to adapt to the challenges presented by the integration of markets in the EU, to the rapid advances in technology which many industries are experiencing, and generally to the evolving dynamics of doing business in the Europe of today.
Whilst the effects of individual mergers must be assessed on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the relevant competition rules, mergers between companies based in different Member States are likely to increase competition in the Member State concerned, thereby contributing to the realisation of concrete benefits for European consumers in the form of lower prices and wider choice.
The Green Paper published by the Commission last week was very clear.
Sustainable, competitive and secure energy will not be achieved without open and competitive energy markets, based on competition between companies looking to become Europe-wide competitors rather than dominant national players.
Any interference in this process by national governments which is not justified by legitimate interest as provided for in the Treaties, secondary legislation or jurisprudence, risks being seriously damaging to Europe’s prospects of benefiting from the opportunities presented by market integration and globalisation.
The Commission, as you know, has two principal legal instruments at its disposal – the single market rules in the EC Treaty and Article 21&#160;of the EC Merger Regulation – for addressing undue interference by national authorities in relation to corporate restructuring.
As guardian of the EC Treaty, and as the institution responsible for merger control on competition grounds at the European level, the Commission is determined to guarantee that companies can effectively benefit from the advantages of the EU’s internal market.
The promotion of national champions results in national monopolies, which means that there is no competition, and this also means that there is no more competition in the European internal market.
Incidentally, it also aggravates the situation for all other enterprises, as they have to pay the high energy prices and thus also lose out in terms of international competitiveness.
Although I explicitly support the efforts of the Commission and, in particular, the Commissioner on this issue, I believe that the Commission’s options are simply limited.
The Commission is trying to present instruments of competition law, but the famous two-thirds rule in mergers law almost always applies in the field of energy, in particular – and, as a result, the Commission’s scope for intervention is minimal.
I should like to make one comment on takeovers law: newspaper reports in the past few days have alleged that European takeovers law is promoting this development.
Member States can be expected to transpose takeovers law, but this is a case of relations between enterprises; it has nothing to do with the exertion of political influence.
The message of my group, nevertheless, is that President Barroso, the Commissioner and their colleagues should not be caught napping in the situation we now find ourselves in, with the mergers, acquisitions and developments we see in the financial markets, energy and other sectors – sectors that are all very important for the European economy.
We Social Democrats still believe that the state has a role to play in the economy as a facilitator, as a regulator and as a defender of the public interest.
That is why I do not like your approach, Commissioner, which is only negative and seeks to prevent authorities from interfering in what is happening with companies.
I think there should be a proactive approach and I shall mention three questions on which we should have a thorough debate in Europe.
We need a debate there, not only on shareholder democracy, which the and are preaching, but on other aspects too.
The third is the European approach versus the national approach. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are really facing a situation of great importance for Europe: the Member States are still attached to the perception of a national dimension still viewed as predominant in all circumstances, while we are forgetting that a change of dimension has occurred and that we must move consciously towards a continental dimension, aware that we are moving in that direction and also knowing how to manage it.
It is a conflict of interest between the immediate political interest and the long-term interest, not only of consumers, but also of the overall efficiency of the European system.
European energy champions would squeeze out even more money from our major industry and consumers, and from us as citizens, and pass it on to the shareholders.
I reiterate our firm opposition to dangerous sources such as nuclear power.
I therefore hope that the European Commission will take these arguments into consideration and that Poland will cease to be on the receiving end of a barrage of threats related to this subject. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the unification of markets is a fundamental aim of the Union, but it is also more than that: the market is one of the pillars on which the whole process of European integration was – and is – based.
The market does not tolerate the abuse of a dominant position that prevents free competition.
An open market and one that operates smoothly is crucial for European competitiveness in international markets.
Protectionism causes the opposite effect, as we have seen in recent months; states blocking cross-border takeovers, mergers or acquisitions to protect strategic national interests.
Protectionism really serves to defend weak and inefficient companies, or to create national champions artificially.
To operate properly, the market must be efficient and avoid distortions.
To have the courage to take that decision means really being a serious European: competitiveness, growth and the well being of citizens, based on an integrated market, are vital to prepare the ground for the birth of the European Constitution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, you want the market to operate properly.
Furthermore, if we want the takeover bid directive to work properly, the Member Sates will have a great responsibility.
We will have to also perhaps provide for its review –&#160;this is included in the text&#160;- so that the power of shareholders is not that kind of blind power that, without taking account of any interest, or the State in question, or the industrial strategy in force, or the interests of the employees, could destroy companies that, over the years, have accumulated a know-how and a business strategy that could also contribute towards a European industrial policy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we find ourselves faced with two possible mergers.
The principle of reciprocity in relations between European countries in the energy sector seems essential for a European energy market that benefits the consumer, and for a common European policy in the energy sector.
In other cases, the European Commission has strictly applied its antitrust instruments to prevent the development of dominant positions and retaliation by international competition.
It is to be hoped that the Commission employs a similar strictness in ensuring the free movement of capital, because even in these circumstances the principle must apply to everyone, for we cannot allow some countries in Europe to be more equal than others. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, we are holding this debate this afternoon in the context of extremely serious events in the energy markets, essentially in electricity and gas.
We are hearing political arguments from top politicians of important European countries who have no hesitation in questioning the fundamental principles of the European Union: the free movement of capital and full competition in the markets.
But despite that, here we are, we have come this far, and these political positions simply add more problems and difficulties to the problems and difficulties we have already had to face.
We are talking about strategic sectors, but equally strategic are communications, transport and finance.
Faced with these nationalist temptations, we would call upon the Commission to prioritise the objective and ideal of European integration and, in the face of this populist and isolationist attitude, to dedicate itself to the objective of creating a single market.
In short, we are calling upon the Commission to do its duty as guardian of the Treaties and to promote real development and employment policies for all of the European citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the process of industrial and financial concentration can strengthen the European Union on the world stage.
Finally, we will inevitably have oligopolistic structures in certain sectors, for example in the energy sector.
In conclusion, we need the regulatory authority to be strengthened and integrated, antitrust to be strengthened and, in the immediate term, a more active and effective attitude from the Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, you know that very many eyes in Belgium are fixed on you at the moment.
The general expectation is that you will tell the newly merged French groups Suez and Gaz de France in no uncertain terms that their position on a market as small as the Belgian one is untenably monopolistic.
I know that your offices have not been officially told about the merger, but we do not believe that that means that you cannot, at this stage, send out a clear message to the effect that situations of that kind contravene European law, because the newly merged group is set to supply no less than 90% of the gas distributed in Belgium.
Commissioner Kroes, you are the only guarantee the customer has, and I mean both private persons and industry, that they will not have to pay an unacceptably high price for their gas and electricity in future.
You have also said that soon, you will table fresh proposals in order to put an end to the concentration of power in the energy distribution.
I would like to know if you can confirm that what you mean by that is that major producers will be required to relinquish their blocking capacity in distribution companies.
The competition policy is key, but it does not resolve everything in the field of energy, and nor does the internal market policy.
To talk about energy is to talk about security and general interests.
Rather than resentful words condemning patriotism, we need intelligent action in favour of Europeanism. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few weeks the Italian UDC-SVP delegation has presented a written question to the Commission in order to highlight the contradictions of a European energy policy apparently in crisis.
The decision of the French Government to create another energy giant by breaching the principles of the European market will have negative consequences.
This political initiative flies in the face of all plans for transparency and free competition, replacing, in fact, the right to financial wrangling that ought to be a part of a single market.
Furthermore, France’s adoption of the directive on takeover bids, which the National Assembly will, after a long silence, take up tomorrow, gives cause for concern.
We wish to make clear in this House, Mr&#160;President, our fear of a dangerous drift towards a Europe made up of nations that are against the ideals and spirit of the Treaties, and against the spirit and values handed down to us by Alcide De Gasperi, Konrad Adenauer, Robert Schumann and Jean Monnet.
The prospect of a pan-European industrial context, relaunched by President&#160;Barroso with the approval of the Green Paper on Energy, at last gives cause for hope.
The Commission’s main objectives in the coming months must be to create open markets that benefit the consumer and to focus on global European policies that protect against national self-interests. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when I hear Members of this Parliament treating the principle of the free movement of capital as sacrosanct, forgetting about the social objectives laid down in the Treaty, such as employment, the development of a balanced economy or the maintenance of solidarity and cohesion, I get the impression that some Members of this Parliament have not read the European Union's Treaties.
Those of us from outlying island regions are wondering who is going to pay the additional cost that will arise for these regions in deficit.
Thirdly, as she has said, I would ask for integration into a common market, which will be the only way to ensure energy sufficiency and cheap energy and into an internal market, which is what we want to see.
That is Spanish patriotism and it is also European patriotism. &#160;&#160; (Mr President, Community law governs mergers and acquisitions on the internal market by creating a competition policy which is one of the main Community policies and also one of its earliest.
It is supposed to guarantee the removal of barriers to internal trade within the single market and to ensure that they are not replaced by other actions by businesses or governments which would distort competition.
Unfortunately, recent events have shown that in some Member States protectionist and short-sighted activities are being carried out.
The opposition of the Polish Government has a dubious legal base with respect to Community law and shows Poland in an unfavourable light in relation to foreign investors.
Unfortunately, this case has also become a weapon for the right-wing government in its fight against the independence of the Polish National Bank, which is also the central bank. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, did you know that yoghurt is a matter of national interest?
Everyone is in favour of his country’s enterprises going on a buying spree around Europe and the world – but not in his own country.
I did not hear anyone in Spain complaining when the Spanish Telefónica took over the German–British enterprise O2 or when Banco de Santander took over a large British financial services provider.
I did not see anyone becoming agitated about France seeking to buy up an Italian bank, or Electricité de France acquiring a stake in Energie Baden-Württemberg AG, or UniCredito in Italy acquiring Hypo-Vereinsbank, even though ABN&#160;AMRO encountered problems when it tried to take a similar course of action in Italy.
We are seeing a great deal of hypocrisy here on the part of Member States and the Council.
We are labouring under a misapprehension if we believe that the Lisbon objectives can be achieved and we can become stronger by means of national protectionism, when we cannot even withstand the relevant competition in our own area.
The Commission faces challenges on two levels.
The Commission must take a strict line towards the Council, as confidence that Member States and the Council are thinking in terms of a European approach and of the internal market has suffered greatly in recent years. &#160;&#160; – The Commission’s initiative to review the regulation on mergers is a welcome one.
The legislation has become ineffective, as evidenced by unbalanced and economically unsustainable legal decisions in relation to the energy market in Portugal and Spain.
The recent upsurge in large-scale operators in Europe exacerbates regulatory problems, especially in smaller countries with more fragile resources.
Essential goods and services that should be universally available at the lowest possible cost are now being provided by private companies operating monopolies or oligopolies.
I thank you in advance for answering these questions. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I do not have a great to deal to add to what I said at the start.
I declared my support clearly, on behalf of the Council, for competition in the interests of consumers.
At the beginning of the debate, Mr&#160;Lehne requested that the Council deal with this issue.
Mr&#160;Radwan made a similar appeal to the Council.
I should like to take this opportunity to engage, if I may, in a little self-promotion.
The Presidency has not only fulfilled an agenda, but has also been very pragmatic in trying to find solutions.
We are aware that it is not only Members of Parliament who are interested in the issue but others too, especially the SMEs themselves.
I am very grateful to all the Members who, in their remarks, gave quite clear backing to the policy of the Commission.
However, I sincerely hope that we are all aware that open and competitive markets are key drivers for growth and jobs in Europe.
As many of you have recognised, an internal market has enormous potential.
I have no information at this point so I cannot discuss them.
So, no different treatment in one Member State than in another.
That is a possible instrument and I am in favour of tackling it, but that is not my goal.
The Commission has a duty to enforce the rules wherever appropriate.
We badly need to do our job as quickly as possible, for it is indeed quite hectic in merger country. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the Euro-Mediterranean policy and the preparation for the next meeting of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly in Brussels. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of the short debate on the Middle East that has been held today in response to current events, Euro-Mediterranean cooperation has also rightly been mentioned.
This cooperation is of the utmost importance, not only with regard to the Middle East issue, but also in other contexts.
The Austrian Presidency follows on the heels of last November’s Summit in Barcelona on the tenth anniversary of the first Barcelona Summit, which adopted a five-year work programme for the Partnership, oriented towards political and economic reforms, and also a Code of Conduct on Countering Terrorism.
I believe that these documents and agreements are of the utmost importance.
I should also like to take this opportunity to announce that a meeting of Trade Ministers is to be held in Marrakech on 24&#160;March, and there will be a meeting of Euromed Finance Ministers in Tunis on 25&#160;and 26&#160;June.
This issue is another about which I have already had the opportunity to speak to you here.
This problem, in particular, has made clear to us that we have to specifically take the route of forward-looking dialogue between the EU and the Islamic world and with Muslim communities in Europe.
The Euro-Mediterranean Partnership offers an ideal, particularly important forum for the dialogue with Mediterranean countries in this regard.
I consider this dialogue to be particularly important at all levels, particularly the direct contact between young people, and I believe that the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership can, and must, indeed play a key role.
The Conclusions of the EU General Affairs and External Relations Council of 27&#160;February&#160;2006 expressly mention the Barcelona process and the Anna Lindh Foundation, along with other multilateral organisations playing a role in this field, a fact that we consider most welcome.
It is now important to take all the available instruments of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership and use them to defuse tensions, such as those seen recently.
In essence, there is agreement on the fact that the structures required to tackle this problem are already in place; I do not believe that we should create new ones.
We expect it to make a particularly important contribution to further calming this situation and to better understanding.
Relevant working committees were put to work even at the stage of preparing for the Barcelona Summit in November&#160;2005.
Just today, at the meeting of the Senior Officials Committee for the Barcelona process, the Euromed Committee, the title of a seminar to be held in Vienna was changed at the request of our Mediterranean partners, to take account of their request for religious feelings to be respected.
It is my conviction that there is scope for further improvement in communication between the traditional Euromed committees and the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly.
Furthermore, particularly in the light of current events, enhanced cooperation could be initiated, for example with the OSCE or even with the ‘alliance of civilisations’ – which, as we know, is a Spanish–Turkish initiative under the auspices of the United Nations.
Let me just say a few words about the recent events in the Palestinian territories, because today the time was so short during the speeches on the Gymnich and there were only two Commissioners.
I ceded my place to Commissioner Rehn for the Western Balkans debate and now, if you permit me, I shall say a few words on yesterday's events.
I fail to see how any of the actions yesterday in any way contributed to those objectives.
The Israeli attack on the prison in Jericho and the Israelis' public treatment of prison guards and inmates is unacceptable and should be condemned.
I also deplore the violence, the kidnappings and the attacks on the Commission offices and other offices of the Member States in Gaza and the West Bank.
How he manages to compose a new Palestinian Authority Government will affect the prospects for peace in the Middle East and will also have repercussions for us all.
I told President Abbas once again that we want to continue our support for a better, peaceful and prosperous future, but that we stand firm on our principles, leaving the door open to positive developments.
All future assistance to a new Palestinian Authority Government will be reviewed in relation to its position on the key principles of an end to violence, recognition of Israel and compliance with the existing agreements, including the Roadmap.
Those with whom President Abbas negotiates must know and understand that their decisions on their issues will have important repercussions.
The Barcelona Summit last November achieved notable results for the future.
To follow up on the summit, we must now ensure constructive and effective contributions by all partners to attain the commonly agreed objectives on political and economic reform, growth and job creation, human rights and gender issues, education and management of migration, regional stability and the fight against terrorism.
The Commission has already launched work on the implementation of that five-year programme.
Initiatives have been taken with the current and the incoming Council Presidencies, as well as with Mediterranean partners, to ensure the success of this common endeavour.
Two sub-regional conferences, one in the Maghreb and one in the Mashreq, will pave the way for government and civil society representatives to examine the importance of gender equality for economic and social development and propose practical measures to improve women’s access to jobs and public life.
At the Barcelona Summit, Euro-Med partners highlighted the importance of migration, social integration, justice and security as issues of common interest in the partnership, which should be addressed through a balanced and comprehensive approach.
This regional initiative is complemented by our bilateral programmes aimed at strengthening institutional capacities, managing legal migration, improving border controls, fighting illegal immigration and people trafficking.
Mr Winkler has already mentioned the Trade Ministerial Meeting, which will be attended by Commissioner Mandelson and will advance the objective of a European free trade area.
We are convinced that the Barcelona Process has a framework for it and that the architecture is already there: there is the Anna Lindh Foundation and 35 other structures within an entire network.
Together, we want to realise the objectives of security, stability and prosperity. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, it is a great pleasure to see you in the Chair at the beginning of this debate on the Euromed Parliamentary Assembly, which you do so much to elevate and enhance.
I believe it is ironic and tragic that the two countries who talk most about encouraging democracy in the Middle East – the United Kingdom and the United States – should be the very countries who left their posts in Jericho yesterday.
I believe that this meeting – the last under your chairmanship under the Presidency of the European Parliament – will be a great opportunity for the Commission, the Council and Parliament to underline our commitment to giving the parliamentary dimension of the Mediterranean real substance.
I hope that the work I am doing on my subcommittee may give the European Parliament the opportunity to become the operational and organisational heart of the Euromed Assembly in the future.
I would also like to hear a view from the Council on the conduct of the United Kingdom and United States forces present in the area.
All our moral and political support goes to the President of the Palestinian Authority, who should have been among us here today.
In Tunisia, whose delegation will soon hold the presidency of the EMPA, Mohammed Abbou, the human rights activist and lawyer, has been in prison for more than a year, following the publication of two critical articles.
In Morocco, Aboubakr Jamai and Fahd Iraki, of the newspaper , have been sentenced to pay the equivalent of 143 times the minimum Moroccan annual salary.
The Commission and the Council stated this very openly this morning.
Our Parliamentary Assembly is extremely important, but we ought to face up to a problem: the involvement of Palestinian representatives in the Parliamentary Assembly.
Certainly not us, the Europeans, surely not France anyway, which is the main Mediterranean coastal power and whose influence depends on a fine balance between its European continental policy, on the one hand, and its Mediterranean and African policy, on the other.
Frail not just in terms of resources, but above all in terms of their intellectual inspiration, since it seems to me that they are still clinging to a very Eurocentric view of democracy and human rights − we have just seen yet another illustration of this − which not only smells of colonialism, but which furthermore prevents us − we saw this in December in Barcelona as well − from dealing with what is really important, that is to say, economic, financial and commercial cooperation and the management of migratory flows.
One would have to be foolishly immersed in the delusions of globalisation to be all of a sudden amazed to discover that civilisations are not interchangeable and men even less so, and that coexistence between different peoples is not automatic.
So let us begin by strengthening them, since it seems to me that they are getting increasingly fragile while becoming increasingly necessary year by year. &#160;&#160; – It is a pity that no sooner than we take a step forward in the Barcelona Process, than something happens in the Middle East which sets back the development we would have made.
We started to discuss this study in the Economic Commission of the Assembly and it gives a worrying picture of the impact of the European Union’s policy on the setting up of a free trade area in the Mediterranean.
It forecasts a rather negative effect on our partner countries in the Mediterranean who are supposed to benefit and not lose by the Barcelona Process.
Among the negative effects it mentions the possibility that in these countries there could be an increase in unemployment, a decrease in the level of wages, as well as a great impact on resources such as water and biodiversity and other environmental impacts.
Naturally the report is not telling us to halt or to dismantle the plan for the setting up of a free-trade area, but it is saying that we should take these negative effects seriously and we should take preventive measures now, before it is too late.
Therefore I wish to ask both the Commission as well as the Council to tell us what is their opinion about this study and what measures they intend to take to address any negative impact which could be brought about by the setting up of a free trade area in the Mediterranean.
For example there is the need, no doubt, that the European Union policy towards these countries should balance the commercial aspect with a more intensive cooperation in the financial, social and educational sector as well as in the environmental sector.
I conclude by appealing to both the Commission as well as to the Council to take a more active part in the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly and also to reply to the questions put by the Members of Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like first of all to thank you for being here and above all to congratulate you on having led the work of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly so well over the six months that it has fallen to this House to head its work.
The Euro-Mediterranean process has been a success and so was the Barcelona Summit of last November.
Let us consider the situation had the Euro-Mediterranean process not existed, in light of the events we have seen surrounding the cartoons crisis and the events yesterday in Jericho for example.
The action plan approved in Barcelona contains some extremely important points − some have been mentioned.
We know a lot about this in Europe and this will be the key to the success of the first objective.
I believe that, with a view to the meeting on the 26th and the 27th, we need to do four things: speed up decision making, refocus the debates around rapporteurs by committee, ensure that the Commission and Council attend and participate, as President Borrell demanded this morning at the beginning of our sitting, as events require, and finally to involve civil society.
In the context of the EMPA committee responsible for cultural affairs, we have proposed the creation of a cultural contact committee made up of respected experts who are capable of dialogue, in order to respond to cultural and religious conflicts, to mediate, clarify and diffuse cultural and religious tension between the two flanks of the Mediterranean.
The Anna Lindh Foundation, based in Alexandria, is in a perfect position to organise this committee of experts, which could act in a preventive manner in the event of similar conflicts, in order to clear up misunderstandings of the cultures of others, in order to clear up any doubts about what really happened.
In view of recent events, the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly is the ideal place to reinforce our partnership, on the basis of dialogue, exchange and mutual understanding.
Urgent action is needed in order to deal with a difficult local situation and an increasingly uncertain regional context.
I believe that the European Union has a heavy responsibility today, and I am saying that as chairwoman of the political committee of the EMPA which, flanked by a Palestinian vice-president and an Israeli vice-president, wishes to place the resolution of the Middle East conflict at the heart of our work.
The Union must speak with one voice and condemn the perversity of actions that increase the escalation of violence and undermine an already fragile peace process.
The first person to be affected was certainly Mahmoud&#160;Abbas; hardly had he left his country than the Israeli forces launched their assault on the prison.
We Europeans have also been snubbed.
The reality of Palestine is an interminable occupation and a wall which was condemned by the Hague but which is still standing.
In other words, the peace process is dragging its feet.
We must be unequivocal in condemning the content of the cartoons.
On the issue of migration, the new initiatives by the Commission and the recent decisions by the Council to manage migratory flows instead of talking only about illegal immigration are commendable.
It is true that some of these countries have changed from countries of origin or transit to terminals.
That is why we need to work together, by sharing technical means, expertise and responsibility, to fight the trafficking of human beings and illegal immigration. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, as chair of the European parliamentary delegation for relations with the Mashreq countries, I naturally endorse what has just been said about the recent events in Palestine and, in particular, the condemnation of the attack on the Jericho prison, which is certainly not a step forward on the road towards peace and democracy.
This institution is already experiencing a number of structural difficulties.
Economic prosperity and social progress are not within everyone’s reach, which means that issues of violence are very visible.
In this case, the data shows that in terms of reducing poverty, the immediate gains are considerably lower, although other benefits may accrue from the far-reaching changes taking place in the economies of our Mediterranean partners.
As regards human rights, it is vital that we look into the near-total absence of a guiding concept in the EU and the Euro-Mediterranean institutions on the issue of economic and social rights and the part that this plays in the Barcelona process.
I feel that in the current framework in particular – albeit, in reality, across the board – this is a vitally important question, which should be given due prominence in the MEDA programme.
Our most pressing priorities in this partnership should be to step up social dialogue, the fight against child labour, cooperation in combating discrimination in the field of social security, dialogue on social reforms and promoting equal opportunities between men and women.
In the context of today's reality, this issue should be brought to the fore in the Barcelona process. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to all of you for mentioning the positive impact of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership in your speeches.
We would be deceiving ourselves if we were to believe that this Partnership alone would be sufficient to enable us to make changes in a short space of time, but we must work at it, and, as the Commissioner said, the instruments to do so are available.
The human rights issue has been mentioned many times.
Mr President, I would also like to thank all those very engaged parliamentarians like yourself and your subcommittee and Mrs De Keyser and others who are working constantly and with great commitment towards better understanding between the peoples in the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
A close look at this declaration on terrorism, this Code of Conduct on Countering Terrorism, reveals that it contains a good approach to even the difficult, delicate issues – and, of course, the fight against terrorism, with all the familiar political problems, is an extremely difficult one.
It is an approach that enables us to continue to achieve further results, and the Council shares this objective.
I am in favour of liberalisation, but I agree it must also take account of social cohesion and social stability, social rights, questions of energy, and of course education.
As I said, what we wanted to create with the Euromed Partnership is exactly that: a partnership, which means both sides will have to do their utmost to get things moving and quite a lot of reforms are still necessary.
The Neighbourhood Policy is the policy that tries to complement this Euromed Partnership.
While also focusing very clearly on human rights, it tries to promote all the other factors that will assure these countries a better life in the future.
Hopefully we can make the future, even at this critical stage, a better one. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; – The President of the Palestinian High Authority, Mahmoud Abbas, was forced to return urgently to his country and cancel his address to Parliament, due to the extremely serious turn of events.
The EU must take a firm line on Israel’s continued attack on Palestine, of which the destruction of Jericho prison is one of the most serious and humiliating episodes.
Israel committed this crime after a recent agreement between the Palestinian Authority and the USA and the United Kingdom on prisoner security, yet nothing was done to stop it.
At the next meeting of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, Parliament must show clear solidarity with Palestine and must condemn the violence perpetrated by Israel, which is jeopardising peace in the Middle East.
UN resolutions must be complied with and the free will of the people of Palestine must be upheld. &#160;&#160; – The next item is statements by the Council and the Commission on the 62nd session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights (UNHCR, Geneva). &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the issue that we are discussing now, at this relatively late hour, is also a great personal concern of mine, which is why it was important to me to remain here for this debate.
The decision of principle taken last September in New York to establish a Human Rights Council in place of the Commission on Human Rights was one decision that justified a positive assessment of the Summit.
Of course, last September’s decision was only a decision of principle, and it took difficult negotiations to breathe life into this Human Rights Council.
I believe that special thanks are due at this juncture to the President of the General Assembly of the United Nations, Mr Jan Eliasson, for tirelessly working to enable a decision on the Human Rights Council to be reached a few hours ago in New York.
The results of the vote adopting this Human Rights Council are impressive: 170 votes in favour and 4 against, with 3 countries abstaining.
The EU put up a united front at the United Nations General Assembly with a common position.
The establishment of the Human Rights Council represents an important, I would even say historic, step towards further strengthening the United Nations human rights system and the protection of human rights around the world.
As regards the Human Rights Council in its current form, the answer was a clear ‘yes’.
Firstly, unlike the Commission on Human Rights, which operated under the aegis of the Ecosoc, which met once a year in Geneva for a six-week session, the Human Rights Council will meet throughout the year, and will be directly responsible to the General Assembly.
The option of the Human Rights Council possibly one day becoming one of the main bodies of the United Nations has been left open.
The direct and individual election of members subject to the requirement of an absolute majority of all Member States of the United Nations also represents progress.
Another new aspect is the possibility of suspending members of the Human Rights Council in the case of gross and systematic human rights violations subject to a two-thirds majority.
The EU offered to issue – and has indeed issued – a declaration in the General Assembly on the occasion of the establishment of the Human Rights Council making a political commitment to refrain from voting in favour of admitting to the Human Rights Council any country which has been accused by the Security Council of human rights violations and which is subject to Security Council sanctions.
Thirdly, there will be a regular human rights review of all countries through the creation of a universal review mechanism, which will also help obviate accusations of double standards and selectivity in future.
Fourthly, the Human Rights Council has the competence to make direct recommendations to all the bodies of the United Nations, including the UN Security Council.
We believe that this has the potential to substantially strengthen the United Nations human rights protection system as a whole.
The Commission on Human Rights will now meet again – presumably briefly – to conclude its business and subsequently hand it over to the Human Rights Council.
We – as the EU and the Council – shall do our utmost to ensure that the Human Rights Council is able to carry out its work successfully and effectively from the outset.
I hope that the work of the Human Rights Council in the coming years will convince all parties that this was a good choice, that this represents progress, and that, ultimately, we have also done something positive for the protection of human rights around the world.
As you know, the European Union and the European Commission have contributed substantially to that result.
Last week, when the EU decided to support the draft resolution introduced by President Eliasson, we made it possible for a number of countries to copy us.
Let me say a few words about the Commission on Human Rights.
It was that Commission, in 1948, that oversaw the drafting of the most important statement of human rights principles of all: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Therefore, the Commission was very relieved that, after the recent differences between Member States on the final draft resolution, the European Union was able once again to adopt a common position and thus demonstrate its commitment to the crucial part of the UN reform process.
The Commission, like the Member States, is concerned about the US vote against the text.
Kofi Annan today said that his understanding was that the United States, even though they might not be able to vote for the Council as it was currently proposed, would be able to work with the Council, and I am sure that the US, which has done so much for human rights, will find a way to work with the other Member States to make the Council what it ought to be.
Unlike the political minefield that surrounds the reform of the UN Security Council, the UN has shown the capacity to agree on a new structure for dealing with human rights questions.
The issues of debate in formulating the new structure for human rights have been many: 1.
The members of that council must have credibility on human rights questions. 3.
The council should not be too big. 4.
The council should be reflective of the geographical difference globally. 5.
It should not be seen as an elitist council, a small group preaching to the others. 6.
The question of how we should select or elect members to that council. 7.
The need for a continued role for NGOs. 8.
However, in my view, the draft resolution by the President of the General Assembly is a reasonable attempt to do just that, an effort to find common ground.
I do not view the document as perfect by any means, however, and I would be critical on two points in particular.
First, I think the Council is too big: 47 members are too many.
Secondly, the election procedure whereby members are elected by an absolute majority is not ideal.
I should like to finish by saying that it is a job well done by the UN today, and I think it will add credibility to its stance on human rights issues. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, today there has indeed been a very positive development as regards the agreement achieved in New York.
I believe that the Commission and the Commissioner will work with non-governmental organisations to strengthen the role and the efficacy of the Council.
These clear reforms may give new momentum for human rights to the institution of the Council and reduce the lack of credibility and efficacy of the UN.
Similarly, the European Union can work with the UN and with the other countries within the framework of the Council in order to strengthen the new institution.
Unfortunately, the ostentatious search on the part of the United States for a better result undermines this positive compromise achieved today.
It is high time that fundamental humanitarian values were placed before political expediencies. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this is, of course, in many ways an historic day – the day on which we have set up a Human Rights Council.
The decision concerning the Human Rights Council was one of the few practical decisions taken in September, and it is therefore very gratifying that there now in actual fact exists such a Council and that we have obtained a permanent body that does away with the need for those six weeks of intensive lobbying in Geneva, characterised, just as you said, by constant horse-trading in connection with who was to support which resolution.
I agree with Mr&#160;Coveney that a two-thirds’ majority would have been better.
I hope that, in the future, the EU will adopt a unanimous and consistent approach and not be afraid to point the finger if a country with a place on the Council is guilty of seriously violating human rights.
Now is the time of reckoning, and it is important not only to be able to act promptly when crises occur but also to remember too events that are not so sexy from the media’s point of view, that is to say the permanent human rights violations committed against people in somewhat forgotten, out-of-the-way places.
If the Human Rights Council can safeguard these people’s rights, we shall have taken a big step forward. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I should like to commend the far-sightedness of Parliament, which arranged this debate hours after the adoption of the resolution, and which will follow suit in adopting such a resolution tomorrow.
We can together express our satisfaction and our huge relief in seeing this resolution adopted.
These positive points were precisely what Parliament and the EU as a whole were looking for and enjoyed the full support of all of us.
It is unacceptable that Russia has never been condemned for the odious conduct of its special forces in Chechnya.
It is unacceptable that China has never been condemned for its tragic repression of the fundamental rights of the Tibetan people.
The European Union must show greater courage on this issue: at stake are our credibility and our policy of promoting human rights.
It is not enough to protest against countries that are unprotected by often dubious international alliances.
These compromises give rise to doubts as to whether Europe’s position on UN reform issues was put with sufficient force.
In the field of human rights, if we at the European Union do not guide processes then no one else will do it.
The European Commission ought therefore to mobilise the greatest possible support for further suitable reform to the UN human rights institution, as well as for the election of states to the Council which will not discredit it but which will lay a solid foundation for effective work in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the final document of the United Nations Summit in September established the foundations, in some cases the minimal foundations, on which the institutional reforms would be built.
President Eliasson's final proposal, which has just been voted for by a large majority in New York, is the result of a difficult negotiation.
The members of the new Council will be elected by the Assembly by absolute majority, that is to say, a minimum of 96 votes in favour will be required.
Furthermore, during its mandate, all of the members of the Council will be subject to scrutiny and also, as has been said, it will be possible to suspend them.
Nevertheless, I regret the fact that the quota of countries allotted to the Western Europe group is less than that allotted to us in the Commission.
Mr President, I would have liked this proposal from Mr&#160;Eliasson to have been adopted by consensus, but in the end it has been put to a vote.
It is a key country in the United Nations and I hoped that the initiatives to obtain their support for Mr Eliasson's proposal would succeed and that, in the end, the new Council would be established with Washington's support.
The creation of the Council has been supported by Nobel Peace Prize laureates as well as human rights organisations such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch or the Open Society Institute and Soros Foundation Network.
The European Parliament has the opportunity to take a leading role in supporting the Council’s efforts to create a new global system for the protection of human rights.
As part of transatlantic dialogue, the European Union should encourage the United States to collaborate more closely with the Human Rights Council and work towards further reform of the UN.
The USA was one of four countries which voted against the creation of the Council. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, when we discussed the United Nations reform summit in late September of last year, one of the few things that we could really describe as a success was the planned replacement of the discredited Commission on Human Rights with a new Human Rights Council.
It would really have been a serious defeat for the cause of human rights, but also for the United Nations, if we had failed in our attempt to replace this discredited Commission with a new Human Rights Council in a timely manner.
To elaborate: the members of this new Human Rights Council have to be elected by secret ballot, namely by at least 96 countries.
The Human Rights Council has to meet at least three times a year.
It is a good thing that today’s vote supported the proposals in this form. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the abolition of the UN Commission on Human Rights and the creation of a Council with far fewer members is intended to exclude and to be able to expel the countries which do not submit to the United States of America, the European Union or other imperialist forces.
The United States of America have indeed done a great deal for human rights: they have murdered tens of millions of people from Hiroshima and Nagasaki through Vietnam to Iraq today.
Above all, we congratulate the Swedish president of the General Assembly, not only for what he managed to negotiate between the UN member countries, but especially for the way in which he succeeded in bringing together the voluntary organisations of the non-governmental sector that are now giving him so much support.
In my view, it is important that the EU has spoken and that it has a clear and unified position, which it shares with the entire developed world.
Despite all the talk of loss of civilisation, it is clear that the new Council must fully adhere to the principle of the universality of human rights, with the same rules applying to each and every woman and each and every man.
The exclusion instrument is also very important in this context, even though it requires a two-thirds majority, and in my view it creates a new opportunity for European foreign policy, a new opportunity to really address the violation of human rights, which is a problem that results from the failure of some states to function properly.
So, like Members across this House tonight, I welcome the creation of the new Human Rights Council.
When we met Louise Arbour, the Commissioner for Human Rights, in Geneva, and when she made her return visit to us in Brussels, we explored in detail her proposals for the universal review procedure now agreed, which will enable, it is argued, a much stronger, more objective examination of the record of all countries.
Finally, this UN reform results from the Millennium Review Summit and comes at a historic point in the defence of the principle of multilateralism in our world.
We in the European Parliament should send a message to the US – not simply to the government but to its people – that whether it is the Human Rights Council, whether it is Kyoto, whether it is the International Criminal Court, or whether it is the principle of multilateralism itself, the United States is deeply and dangerously isolated in this world and it is no role for the world’s last remaining superpower to play.
If the United States wants to be nominated to this new Council, it will have to allow unimpeded access to Guantánamo Bay.
I wonder whether the US will stand. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I agree with the previous speakers: it is important that a decision has been taken not to leave this Human Rights Council in an embryonic state.
Although the proposal adopted is not ideal, it is a clear improvement on the Commission on Human Rights, which was still susceptible to influence from countries who had themselves committed extremely serious human rights violations.
A blockade would have meant the international community losing credibility in the fight against human rights crimes.
That is why it is a very good thing that this project did not fail; including in view of the important work of the many NGOs. &#160;&#160; (Mr President, the work of the current UN Human Rights Commission has been severely criticised from nearly all sides.
The European Parliament should clearly state its position on the issue, highlighting the need for these changes in order to promote and develop a culture based on the rule of law and democratic government throughout the world.
They ought to be elected by the General Assembly according to a voting majority that would make membership impossible for a country whose government behaves in a way that may lead to doubts about its human rights credentials.
It is also important for a vote to be taken on the candidature of every country, even if there are fewer candidates from the region than places allocated for that given region.
Avoiding the presence of countries such as Libya, as has happened in recent times, or of Cuba, as is the case at present, is one of the basic steps on the road back to the UN regaining its credibility in the field of human rights protection in the world.
We are disappointed that the United States has voted against, although we are not surprised, given that the US – a country that has traditionally done so much for human rights and for international law on human rights and the UN – is currently at the mercy of an administration that lacks any credibility or consistency on this matter.
Where the Bush Administration went wrong was in attempting to hold the creation of the new Council to ransom in last minute negotiations.
It is the EU’s responsibility to continue to pursue a sound and clear-sighted working relationship with Mr Eliasson, via the Austrian Presidency and future presidencies, and via Mr Solana and Mr Barroso, whose voices we should like to hear louder and clearer on this issue.
Europe needs to use all of its considerable influence to ensure that the Human Rights Council is up and running at the earliest opportunity. &#160;&#160; (Mr President, it is unacceptable that in the face of commonplace abuses of human rights the world lacks an organisation through which to condemn these events.
The proposal for a Human Rights Council is an attempt to create an institution which would react more rapidly to crises throughout the world and whose activities would go beyond simply sending a symbolic UN mission to the country that is the subject of criticism.
The project is not perfect, but it seems that the Human Rights Council’s duty of carrying out an assessment of the situation in each of its member states will at least prevent the abuses that have hitherto been perpetrated by its own members.
The creation of a Human Rights Council is without doubt the best solution available to the problem of the UN Commission whose integrity has been compromised.
The European Union should give the new institution its full support so that it can deal effectively with global challenges in the field of human rights protection. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my most sincere thanks for the opinions expressed here.
The EU must play a key role in this.
I am obliged to the House for the support that you have expressed here.
Mr&#160;Coveney said that the figure of 47 members of the new Human Rights Council is too high, that the instrument is too large.
It should be borne in mind that, at all events, the membership of the Human Rights Council is a little smaller than that of the Commission on Human Rights.
Compared with 191 Member States of the United Nations, I personally consider the figure of 47 perfectly appropriate.
Incidentally, that has in fact meant rather fewer seats for the Western group, owing to the fact that members are to now be elected not at Ecosoc but directly in the General Assembly.
The demand by the United States that the five permanent members of the Security Council be given automatic membership of the Human Rights Council was a relatively early proposal that was no longer supported in the latter phase.
Mrs&#160;Flautre pointed out that the important dossiers that are still being dealt with by the Commission on Human Rights must be completed.
The year 2006 is set to be a good one for multilateralism.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: – the report by Friedrich-Wilhelm Graefe zu Baringdorf, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation on agricultural products and foodstuffs as traditional specialities guaranteed (COM(2005)0694 – C6-0026/2006 – 2005/0270(CNS) (A6-0033/2006), and – the report by Friedrich-Wilhelm Graefe zu Baringdorf, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs (COM(2005)0698 – C6-0027/2006 – 2005/0275(CNS)) (A6-0034/2006).
The Commission appreciates the efficient organisation of your work, which has enabled adoption of the reports within a short period of time.
In my opening statement I address both reports, thereby focusing on the general background that has led to these Commission proposals.
Firstly, as regards the report on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin, almost 14 years ago the European Community established a voluntary system of geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs other than wines and spirits.
Since 1993, over 700 names have been registered.
Almost 300 requests are currently waiting for registration; this gives an idea of the success of this system.
This success may explain the interest shown by our trade partners in this regulation.
The conclusions of the recent WTO panels on cases brought by the US and Australia impose on us the obligation to open the Community scheme to direct applications and objections from individuals in third countries.
If we simply conform to WTO rules without increasing the efficiency of the functioning of the system, the whole approval process could come to a standstill.
I should add that, in order to avoid any risk of a new complaint at WTO level, the procedure for third-country and EU denominations should be as similar as possible.
Let me turn now to the other proposal, which concerns traditional specialities guaranteed.
In spite of the modest number of products registered, some producers have shown their interest in this regulation.
There are only 50 names registered as traditional specialities guaranteed, but there are 19 applications pending at Community level and a number of others under examination in the Member States.
The procedures have been designed neither for 25 nor for 27 Member States, or for handling a significant number of applications.
There is a similar need to streamline and standardise the content of applications so that more efficient procedures are adopted and so that producers who make the effort to engage in quality schemes are not disappointed by approvals being delayed for several years.
Finally, we are keen to make it clear in this regulation that WTO rules are respected and to forestall any criticism.
In conclusion, these proposals achieve WTO conformity and introduce limited but necessary housekeeping that is designed to streamline and clarify procedures.
We can thereby underpin the mechanisms and better serve producers and consumers who rely on denominations.
Those will be addressed in due course within the framework of a wide reflection on agricultural quality policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I am glad that the Commissioner is here to represent the Commission at today’s debate on this report.
The Commissioner said that this is not the beginning of a legislative process, but that we are just responding to a request from the WTO.
It was rather the case that, as with organic farming, the matter of the products at issue here had been introduced onto the market long ago, over a period of decades, by producers, and proceeded to gain consumer acceptance.
The dispute is with the United States, in particular – and when I say United States, I mean the large multinationals.
These are looking very carefully at whether the products now being protected here as designations of origin can perhaps be incorporated into their empires as trademarks.
The good thing about the discussion is that the WTO has said from the outset, as a matter of principle, that our rules are in accordance with its own rules.
What is not in accordance with its rules, and where improvements need to be made, is the issue of third country access to these protected quality indications.
I should also like to point out, however, that another kind of desire also comes to the fore here.
This being the case, it would be a highly dubious business to believe it is possible to buy raw materials at cheaper prices, and that is why we have stipulated and are stipulating that there be a special relationship between the regions in this regard.
The opportunity for third countries to access the European system for the protection of agricultural products makes it necessary to protect the consumer from a false association between Community symbols and the actual origin of a product.
I hope that my fellow Members will share this point of view by approving these two amendments tomorrow.
Finally, I wish to thank the Commission, which has put this before Parliament, in which regard I also pick up what my fellow Member said earlier, for these procedures and for their recognition of the production of quality products.
Furthermore, it is essential that these denominations are recognised outside of the Union, in the WTO, so that we can establish a market in high-quality agricultural products.
The first challenge facing us is to strengthen our system of consumers and producers even further.
Mr&#160;Graefe&#160;zu&#160;Baringdorf mentioned the example of Parma ham, that that should originate in that region.
The new instrument should finally eliminate the persistent disputes at the WTO between the EU and some of its trading partners.
I would like to add that designations of origin and geographical indications constitute an integral component of intellectual property, according to the World Intellectual Property Organisation.
It is therefore odd both from a procedural and a practical viewpoint that the drafting of this report was entrusted to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, without including in it even an opinion from the Committee on Legal Affairs. &#160;&#160; . (Mr President, the aims of both proposals for regulations seem well-founded.
It is difficult not to support an increase in the income of farmers, fair conditions for competition and protection from fake copies of original products.
Let us consider the result to date of existing solutions.
Within the framework of the system for the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin over 700 names have been registered across the EU including 150 cheeses, 160 types of meat or meat products, 150 types of fruit and vegetables and 80 types of olive oil.
Let them remain a natural attraction of particular places or regions, but without the support of the European Union. &#160;&#160; . ( Mr President, on behalf of the UEN Group I would like to congratulate Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf on his excellent reports.
The real future of Europe lies in supporting traditional, regional products which represent the achievements of local communities.
It is something at which we can excel, at which we can surpass others and thanks to which we can build a European market that is a common market and yet is rich thanks to the variety of regional specialities.
Most of all, however, it is good news for consumers as these products are made according to traditional recipes and using methods that go back generations and are healthier and better than mass-produced goods.
As a result, they have two Mercedes in the yard and shops are full of produce which is neither palatable nor cheap.
They simply want to eat food once again that they have not seen for a long time and to which they have a right.
I would like to thank the Commission and the rapporteur for addressing this important issue.
I hope that farmers, especially those from the new Member States who have not yet had the time or money to take up agricultural production on an industrial scale, will be rewarded for their traditional production methods.
We do not have such splendid processing methods as those for which French cuisine is renowned, but we do have healthy, tasty farm produce and food. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, there is no need for me to spell out how much we value our system of protected geographical indications (PGO) and protected designations of origin (PDO) and how keen we are to defend them and ensure compliance with them, within and outside the Union.
According to ... &#160;&#160; (Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on two excellent reports.
I would also like to express my conviction that it is precisely these new regulations adopted by Parliament that will further the development of agricultural food production, and in particular the revitalisation of rural areas by promoting their traditions and cultural values and increasing employment outside of the farming sector.
I think that a transparent and simplified registration procedure and a clear division of competences between the Member States and the Commission will provide more effective protection for consumers and producers, citizens of the Union and, most of all, for those who manufacture these products.
The proposed regulations do indeed contribute to guaranteeing a credible system to protect the quality of registered products which are trusted and whose popularity is growing in the Union and across the world.
These products will now not only feature the producer’s label but also the label of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe must be in a position to guarantee and protect the quality of its agricultural and food production.
In order to achieve this objective it is necessary to defend traditional specialities and geographical indications, even against attacks launched from inside the World Trade Organisation by the United States and Australia.
The rapporteur has done an excellent job to improve the two regulations.
We must question ourselves, however, over one matter: all too often those in favour of the PDO and PGI scheme are more concerned with commercialisation than with production. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for helping to protect regional individuality and rural self-sufficiency.
We must ensure that, in regulating food marketing, we do not kill off the remaining traditional local farmers' markets. &#160;&#160; ( Mr President, it is fortunate that we are holding a joint debate on Mr&#160;Graefe&#160;zu&#160;Baringdorf’s reports.
In one of the reports, in point 5 of the justification, the text reads that ‘the aim of the proposals is to simplify the procedure and to provide an accurate definition of the remits of the different bodies during the examination process for the proposal’.
This, along with other annotations, such as those under point 9, gives us hope that in the final Council regulations we will be able to avoid red tape and legal inconsistencies.
This is particularly important with regard to the regulation on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs.
We have to remember that geographical indications are part of the heritage of certain local communities and individual nations and that they are responsible for protecting them.
The protection of geographical indications and designations of origin of foodstuffs at a Community level should only fulfil a supporting function and prevent dishonest practices.
No one wants a Union where everyone everywhere dresses the same, eats the same food and speaks in the same manner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome these reports because protecting regional specialities is right and necessary.
Regions have a right to exploit and protect such specialities for their own economic benefit.
I note that it is estimated that, in those Member States where this is done, around EUR&#160;5&#160;billion a year is raised, in terms of added value, by promoting such geographical indications.
Of course, there is also a knock-on effect in terms of impact and job creation and in population retention in rural areas.
I would therefore call on the British Government in this debate to avail itself forthwith of the opportunities available under these regulations.
I would therefore make a plea that the maximum effort should be made to simplify the process so that regional products may be protected and promoted more swiftly, and I welcome what the Commissioner had to say in that regard.
I agree strongly with our rapporteur that the EU must use all its clout and diplomatic skill to defend geographical indications.
Whilst we should take encouragement from the WTO Dispute Settlement Body's rejection of recent attacks by the United States and Australia, we cannot afford any sense of complacency. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, should like to join in thanking the rapporteur for his really excellent reports, and also the shadow rapporteurs for their very efficient cooperation on this.
That represents a key aspect as far as European agriculture and rural areas are concerned.
I believe that intellectual property is also relevant to these products, and that these products, as it were, contribute towards the identity of a region.
If we open up our markets to products from third countries, we must be able to make this conditional on these countries applying the same standards in terms of quality and social aspects as prevail within the EU.
The fact is that we are living in a global world, but nevertheless fair competition can only be afforded if the same requirements and rules apply within the WTO and are put into practice.
As Horst Köhler, President of the Federal Republic of Germany, said yesterday, the EU’s higher prices must be matched by superiority in quality.
This also reveals how important active farming enterprises and family-run farms engaged in production are to rural areas. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should first like to congratulate the rapporteur and my fellow members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on this report, one of the strong points of which is that it emphasises a key concept, which is that Europe’s farming will only survive on the basis of quality.
Consequently, at the heart of any political measure taken by the EU, not least in international fora such as the World Trade Organisation, must be the defence of labels and other protected designations, as this is the only way of guaranteeing the sustainable competitiveness of European products in a globalised world.
I refer, of course, to the winemaking sector, which accounts for tens of thousands of jobs in my region, southern France, and hundreds of thousands of jobs around Europe, and which is currently enduring a major crisis.
If nothing is done, including at European level, there is a danger that Europe will lose its soul. &#160;&#160; ( Mr President, today we are discussing how to protect traditional, speciality agricultural products.
During Communist rule, production of traditional products for trading purposes was also banned.
Another extremely important question is the issue of certainty regarding whether foodstuffs will be sufficiently monitored with respect to quality and whether a situation can be avoided where the increasing supply of genetically modified plants across Europe leads to traditional products becoming tainted.
The annexed register of products classed as traditional products should also be expanded to include delicatessen goods. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the report on designations of origin and geographical indications presented to us by the Commission states that its intention in drawing it up has been to clarify procedures and to bring Community legislation into line with a judgment of the World Trade Organisation.
Nevertheless, until the WTO includes in its debate the international system of geographical indications and thus until we have an international register of geographical indications, it does not make much sense for the modifications of our Community Regulation to go any further than is strictly necessary.
I therefore believe that the amendment from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats should be supported and I also believe that the differing views on health systems amongst the Member States must ensure that the farmers and producers are not the only ones who have to pay for the extension of the legislation on food hygiene to designations of origin. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to congratulate our rapporteur.
The establishment of the protected designation of origin (PDO), the protected geographical indication (PGI) and the traditional speciality guaranteed (TSG) is a step in the right direction for the development of rural areas.
I can bear witness to this from the experience of my country, in which more than 100 products have become subject to these arrangements, and most of them have registered reasonable commercial success.
In some cases, the success of the market represents both the rehabilitation of indigenous breeds that had been heading for extinction and of operating methods which would otherwise have been seriously at risk or would have disappeared.
I wish to underline that clearer identification of Community symbols by means of colouring, identification of the origin and place of processing of products from third countries, and the fact that the Commission’s decision was upheld, render the process more credible and will lead to cheaper prices and less bureaucracy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, before I address the subject of today’s debate, it is important that I record in this House the fact that the Irish sugar industry will cease production totally.
I regret that in Ireland we have only three products that are registered under the PGI&#160;description, but we have many hundreds of small food companies that could take the protection offered by these regulations.
We need to recognise that the continuation of food production in Europe depends on a commitment to the sector and a recognition that it cannot be expected to survive the onslaught of unlimited market access by low-cost commodities produced outside the Union at different and lower standards.
The EU must do all it can to defend these geographical indications and must use all its diplomatic acumen, especially in the forthcoming negotiations on the transposition of the Hong Kong decisions.
The Commission must be capable of playing an important role in this respect.
Among us, Ireland – of which I have now twice heard mention – has unfortunately yet to set a good example, and I would urge it to encourage those of its regions manufacturing products in this way to submit a request.
There must be no omissions in this regard.
Nevertheless, we have managed to table joint amendments in some fields.
For some obscure reason, the Council has introduced a provision that any natural or legal person having a legitimate interest can have a registration of a designation of origin or of a special quality indication cancelled.
I hope that the Commissioner will take this further.
As a general comment – Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf and Mr Castiglione touched upon this point – I should like to stress again that with these proposals the Commission wants to bring our legislation into conformity with the findings of the WTO panels.
In response to Mr Mulder, I reiterate the intention of the Commission to further review the various policy issues not related to the WTO findings and the wider issue of the agricultural quality policy in the EC over the next year.
I should explain to Mr Mulder that Edam is a type of cheese that can be produced anywhere.
It is a Codex standard.
Let me comment in more detail on the exchange of views and address some of the issues you have raised.
I also want to make it clear that any advantage given to EC producers – and I believe the use of a Community symbol is such an advantage – will be equally open to third country producers.
That answer is for Mr Castiglione and Mrs Herranz García.
Several amendments deal with the obligations of the Member States and the Commission, which Mr Podkański mentioned.
The Commission has no intention of altering the current distribution of competence between the Member States and the Commission.
Amendments 23 and 24 ask for a time period for the Commission to scrutinise and publish applications.
Mrs Lulling and Mrs&#160;Salinas García touched upon that.
There is also no doubt that these controls will be carried out within the framework of Regulation (EC) No&#160;882/2004 on official controls performed to ensure the verification of compliance with feed and food law.
I confirm that your proposals concerning the use of protected names in relation to ingredients for processed products meet some of the Commission’s concerns.
However, the general rules on labelling already cover cases of misleading information.
Further restrictions on the use of registered names for processed products would mean a major policy change that deserves to be adequately and thoroughly assessed.
However, we have to be very prudent.
Any policy change in this field may affect rights already granted to users of certain designations.
The current regulation on traditional specialities guaranteed has no definition for the term ‘traditional’.
As a result, the Commission can in principle accept the following amendments in the report on geographical indications: Amendments 1, 10, 11, 15, 25, 29 and 31.
Of the last-minute amendments tabled for this part-session, the Commission can in principle accept Amendments 41, 43, 49 and 54.
The Commission cannot accept the other amendments to these reports. &#160;&#160; – The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the debate on the oral question by Mr Gargani to the Commission on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs on legal professions and general interest in the functioning of legal systems (O-0003/2006 – B6-0005/2006). &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am actually here to represent my colleague Mr&#160;Gargani, who, as Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, is the real draftsman of this question.
The history of this issue, namely that of liberal professions, in particular legal professions – to whom this question relates – goes back several years.
Parliament dealt with this issue in the previous parliamentary term on the basis of two questions for oral answer in the corresponding resolutions, particularly in the light of the activities of the Internal Market and Services Directorate General under Mario Monti, the former Commissioner for competition, and also in view of the study by the Vienna Institute for Advanced Studies that sparked off this whole debate.
I do not wish to conceal the fact that the Committee on Legal Affairs actually always held a broad conviction – even across the political spectrum – that this Vienna study took a very biased approach, one biased towards economic aspects, and did not take sufficient account of the specific role of the liberal professions, particularly the legal professions, in administering justice.
Presenting another question for oral answer today, following the latest Commission interim report presented by Commissioner&#160;Kroes – an accompanying resolution will follow in the coming week – practically continues the tradition from the previous parliamentary term.
These features form part of the judicial system, and have to function.
I should now like to turn to a specific problem which has, of course, also been addressed in conjunction with this question, and which was one of the reasons that the Committee on Legal Affairs wanted a further debate on this issue today in plenary.
It is very important to us that the Commission cease dealing with this fundamental issue – which is extremely important to the functioning of the legal professions in many Member States – in this way, as the Commission’s documents would suggest.
The Commission cannot treat the liberal professions in the same way as it does supermarkets.
These professions have a special importance and role.
He presented his views quite clearly.
The Commission recognises the special role of the legal sector in the good administration of justice and in promoting access to justice – by the way, in response to the example cited by Mr&#160;Lehne, the Commission also recognises that supermarkets are very important and very honourable members of our community – we are certainly not challenging this.
This approach fully respects the subsidiarity principle.
On the question of the right of Member States to fix tariffs, I would underline the position of the Commission in its report of February 2004.
In our view the judgment suggests that state measures delegating regulatory powers to professional bodies in order to fix tariffs can be challenged under the competition rules – for example, Articles 3(1)(g), 10(2) and 81 EC – if the state does not have the final word and exercise effective control of the implementation of these tariffs.
The Commission considers that minimum prices for lawyers’ services are a restriction on the freedom to provide services because they neutralise the competitive advantage of service providers from other Member States.
This pact violates the dignity of work and shows a lack of consideration and respect for the profession.
Yet however passionate I might have been about my former profession and its independence, I am more passionate about access to justice and legal services in general and how we make those services available to serve the public interest.
The public interest in access to justice must, I believe, be our overriding goal and not the protection or convenience of lawyers who may find it more comfortable to continue to provide services in the way they have always done.
The profession needs to be independent, but its protectionism should only serve the public interest.
In my own country, this is often a problem because the costs are so high and, where we have some form of fixed fee, the fees are so low that lawyers decline the work.
These are delicate balances, but Europe gives us the chance to look at many answers that may be available to these problems and to pick the best for the society we try to serve, and we should not be frightened or protective about looking for the best.
I should like to re-emphasise some key messages about our aspirations in this area.
Opening the way to greater competition in that sector will do just that; it will result in the emergence of new and innovative types of services.
I am not saying that removing price regulation or that lower levels of regulation will automatically lead to lower prices, more choice for consumers or the creation of new jobs.
As to the removal of price regulation in the UK leading to high legal costs, I am not aware of any evidence to show that price deregulation in the UK has meant problems for UK citizens in accessing legal advice and representation, or that UK legal fees have escalated disproportionately as a result.
In the country I know best, research in 2002 found that the introduction of competition in conveyancing resulted in fees falling.
That is essential if access to justice for all is to be a reality.
I am not aware of any evidence to suggest that removing fixed tariffs has led to a deterioration in the quality of legal services in Member States where this has happened, though quality has a price.
A fixed price does not in itself guarantee quality.
The motto I will take over from Mrs Wallis is: ‘let us look for the best and do it together’. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The Millennium Ecosystem Assessment concludes that ‘an unprecedented effort is needed to achieve the 2010 target of a significant reduction in the rate of biodiversity loss at all levels’.
That global 2010 biodiversity target was adopted by the Convention on Biological Diversity and endorsed at the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development.
High-level political commitment is therefore needed to strengthen and implement the Convention on Biological Diversity and achieve the 2010 target.
The eighth conference of the parties to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity will take place during the next two weeks in Curitiba, Brazil.
The COP-8 is preceded by the third meeting of the parties to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety.
Those are major international environmental events and Commissioner Dimas will attend the ministerial segment of the eighth conference of the parties from 26 to 30 March.
The Environment Council of last Wednesday adopted conclusions setting out the EU priorities for the eighth conference of the parties.
The conclusions are: first, strengthening the implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity and monitoring progress towards achieving the 2010 biodiversity target; secondly, making progress in implementing the programme of work on protected areas of the Convention on Biological Diversity, and in particular on its objective to establish a global network of comprehensive, ecologically representative and effectively managed national and regional protected area systems.
That should be done by 2010 for terrestrial areas and by 2012 for marine areas.
The Convention on Biological Diversity should establish scientific criteria for the identification of marine areas and species in the high seas requiring most urgent protection.
As regards the ongoing third meeting of the parties to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, our priorities are to finalise the adoption of documentation requirements for cross-border movements of GMOs, to develop further guidance on risk assessment and to discuss additional measures on compliance.
When the eighth conference of the parties to the agreement begins next week, the world situation will be one where some 16&#160;000 animal species and 60&#160;000 plant species are under threat of extinction.
The resolution contains many worthy recommendations, but when you look at nature itself, you cannot help but marvel at its wisdom.
Nature itself is infinitely productive, creative and even extravagant, but at the same time efficient and practical.
Nature is not concerned about integrated product policy from start to finish: for nature, everything is always the start of something new.
We need the same sort of wisdom – but also an unbiased approach – to be able to overcome the difficulties that lie ahead. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, there is broad consensus on the need to strengthen international environmental management.
Climate change is the biggest of the global environmental problems, but unfortunately not the only one.
For this reason, we need real results from the forthcoming UN Conference of Parties regarding biological diversity in the EU.
In order to ensure that the Convention has the widest possible impact, it is essential that it should be implemented effectively in the various policy areas, and that it is compatible with other international agreements on the environment and that they can all be coordinated together.
We do not know what is happening in our environment or how we might best respond to this challenge.
The answer is simple – because it is directly linked to us – people.
An assessment of available data held by various European states on the condition of bird and mammal populations and changes in their abundance shows that the long-term conservation of many of these species cannot be guaranteed without an urgent and determined change in biological protection strategy and policy.
The so-called simplified environmental protection strategy, which has previously been used, only tries to take into account the needs of those species most at risk of extinction.
I take a very positive view of the European Union's ambitious goal of halting the decline in biological diversity by 2010.
The consequences for food security, especially in developing countries and for the livelihoods of poor farmers, would be huge.
I believe that the Commission and the Member States should continue to play a leading role and ensure that, at the 8th Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity, agreement is reached on measurable objectives and a specific time frame for the achievement of such objectives.
The EU and the Member States should also pay particular attention to marine biodiversity, and the EU must look at its own performance on this.
I should like to make just a fleeting mention of the European fisheries policy, a subject that is currently being discussed with our ACP colleagues on account of the alarming fall in stocks of various fish species. &#160;&#160; – To wind up the debate, I have received one motion for a resolution(1), pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow.
