Commission Question Time The next item is Question Time (B6-0012/2007).
The question by the honourable Member is whether the Commission has a full picture of emissions of greenhouse gases from road transport and what measures it proposes to reduce the effect on the environment of these emissions.
In 2003, emissions of carbon dioxide from the transport sector in the European Union of the 25 totalled 951 million tonnes, accounting for approximately 21% of all emissions of greenhouse gases in the European Union.
Road transport generated emissions of 892 million tonnes of carbon dioxide; in other words, road transport accounts for the biggest share of emissions of greenhouse gases within the European Union.
As far as international flights are concerned, the production of carbon dioxide is 112 million tonnes more than the amounts I referred to earlier.
Average emissions from new automobiles marketed within the European Union must be limited to 120 grammes of carbon dioxide per kilometre by 2012.
Improvements to engine and automobile technology will bring about a reduction in emissions to 130 grammes per kilometre, while supplementary measures will bring about a further reduction of 10 grammes per kilometre.
The proposal for a directive makes provision for an obligation for fuel manufacturers to limit emissions of greenhouse gases from fuels over their life cycle.
This endeavour will bring about a 10% reduction in emissions from road transport by 2020.
I think most Members will welcome the 130 grammes per kilometre figure.
There is also the legislation on car emissions, with the target of 120 grammes.
What we have calculated in terms of the contribution of passenger cars towards our quota target, which is 0.8 % of the 8 % target, will be achieved, but, of course, in a slightly different way.
We have 130 g/km delivered by improvements in car engines and an additional reduction of 10 g through the manufacture of car components and biofuels.
For example, the website of the Environment Directorate General entitled 'Environment for Young Europeans' offers young people information on the environment in 20 languages.
This website is interactive and analyses environmental problems in a simple, amusing and educational manner.
In addition, many of our publications are directed at young people.
Obviously we all have our part to play and we should encourage national governments to do the same.
On the specific question of whether schools in the European Union will include programmes proposed by the European Union in their curricula, there was a major debate on this issue in the late nineties, when it was decided that the matter should be governed by subsidiarity and was for Member States to determine.
Last week's historic agreement on the energy and climate change package will give us not only a leading position in the world in fighting climate change, but, most importantly of all, will enable us to be more effective in persuading other countries to come on board after 2012.
More generally, with regard to the recognition of degrees awarded in the other Member States, the Commission would refer to the provisions of Article 149 of the Treaty, which stipulate that the organisation of the education system falls within the competence of the Member States.
It is in this way that we hope to develop things along the lines that you have indicated.
Second part Subject: Non-implementation of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 on air passengers' rights in the event of overbooking, delays or cancellations In its answer to Oral Question of 26 September 2006, the Commission undertook to present a communication to the European Parliament and the Council on the application of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 on air passenger rights before the end of January 2007.
We have already convened the national control bodies on several occasions, and, in this area, I fully intend to demonstrate as firmly as is necessary the Commission's desire to see the Member States gradually take charge of this problem, with the aim of providing appropriate solutions. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, while it is important that the Member States should reinforce passengers' rights under this Regulation, it is also evident that, in the former text, we made a number of things too easy for the airlines.
The line will be opened on Thursday 15 March.
The new commercial service will provide for four daily return journeys between Paris and Stuttgart, starting 10 June 2007.
This service will be extended to Munich when the new timetables are introduced in early December 2007.
This service will run on the existing line between Stuttgart and Munich.
In July 2005, it appointed Peter Balazs as the European coordinator for this line, who submitted an initial progress report published on 13 September 2006.
Furthermore, the Commission is already cofinancing the sections between Augsbourg and Munich, the entry into service of which is scheduled partly for 2008 and partly for 2010.
It is true that, if I had had a budget of EUR 20 billion for the period 2007-2013, the task would have been easier than with the EUR 8 billion that I do actually have.
This Decision, in conjunction with that of the Court of Arbitration which awarded the sum of € 580 million to Olympic Airways in compensation for a part only of the State's debts to the company and the debts entered in Olympic Airways' accounts, is embarrassing to the Commission, since for many years successive governments saddled Olympic Airways with vast debts which they refused to recognise while the European Union 'washed its hands of the whole business', and pretended to take the information provided by successive governments at face value.
The Commission has learnt of the arbitration panel's decision of 13 July 2006 on public service obligations and of the decision of 6 December 2006 on the Olympic Airways move to Athens Spata International Airport.
The important thing, Mr Papadimoulis, is to say first of all that this difficult matter of Olympic Airways is being treated with the utmost rigour.
A further negative decision of September 2005 concluded that additional aid had been granted to Olympic Airways.
Questions 50, 52 and 53 will be answered in writing.
This policy concentrates investments on 30 axes and transnational priority projects.
These five axes do not alter the priorities fixed by the European transport networks within the European Union.
Currently, a budget envelope in the region of EUR 200 million has been allocated for financing actions developed in the context of Euro-Med Transport cooperation.
The total cost of the projects proposed within the context of Mediterranean cooperation amounts to EUR 23 billion by 2020 for the Mediterranean region.
This close collaboration between the Commission and the European Investment Bank and the other sponsors must be reinforced in the regional context as well as in the global context.
I hope also to be able to present a report at the halfway stage in the autumn of 2007. (EL) Madam President, I should like to thank the Commission for the information which he has given us both on the European Union strategy and on the responsibilities of the partner countries and their participation.
I think, actually, that this work needs to continue so that, in the autumn, I can establish what the priorities will be.
I very much hope that all this work will lead to positive results and I shall not fail, Mrs Kratsa, to keep you closely informed of the development of our thinking and of our proposals.
Question 55 will be answered in writing.
The long-term goal is to produce hydrogen from carbon-free and carbon-lean energy sources.
Under FP 6, EC funding for hydrogen and fuel cell research and demonstration exceeds EUR 300 million.
Under FP6, these activities have further expanded into a demonstration of a fleet of 200 hydrogen-fuelled vehicles, including buses, cars and small specialist vehicles, as part of the Hydrogen for Transport initiative.
The project has tested ways to make hydrogen-fuelled engines that are as efficient as current diesel engines, yet not polluting and with little or no trade-off in terms of engine size and power.
Under the current seventh framework programme, which was launched just recently, research and technological development and demonstration in the field of hydrogen and fuel cells will benefit from very extensive stakeholder consultation undertaken through the European Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Technology Platform.
Established in the year 2004, this industry-led technology platform has provided the strategic direction which the sector needs in order to bring these technologies to the point of commercial readiness.
Annex 4 to the Council decision on specific programme cooperation lists a hydrogen and fuel cells initiative as one of the possible joint technology initiatives that may be established either on the basis of Article 171 of the Treaty - this may include the creation of joint undertakings - or on the basis of a modification of the specific programme in accordance with Article 166 of the Treaty.
In the meantime, the first calls for proposals for FP7 were launched on 22 December and the expiry date is the end of April.
However, I think we can be very proud of what we have achieved in the past and of how we are handling the issue at present.
I think it is very important to view the limits the environment is putting in front of us as a true business opportunity, because I sincerely believe that whoever best understands that will also lead in the business community, in several areas, including those mentioned here such as, of course, environmental protection.
The Commission is devoted to gathering reliable statistical data in order to view the complete situation and it publishes these results regularly in a brochure entitled 'She Figures'.
This brochure was published in 2003 and 2006, and the next publication is expected in 2009.
Thirdly and finally, as regards mainstreaming gender in Community research policy and programmes, work programmes under the cooperation-specific programme encourage female participation.
Thus, we are also looking for new ideas on which the Commission could take action or Member States could take action with the support of the Commission.
Large projects will have the possibility and will be encouraged to include gender equality actions in their projects, and these will be reimbursable actions, just like other activities in the projects.
Article 17 of the rules of participation in the seventh framework programme specifies that in the selection of independent experts, we should ensure reasonable gender balance.
Women's participation in evaluation panels has increased since the Commission set that target in 1999.
The European platform of women scientists created at the end of 2005 will help us in this respect.
Mobility of people is crucial for the success of research carried out in Europe or in any part of the world, because the fertilisation of minds is achieved through the mobility of minds.
Of course there are differences between the Member States, but in many of the countries, many very well-established universities are reporting that there is also a huge influx of students into the European Union.
We now turn to questions for Commissioner Verheugen.
I should like to inform colleagues that Question Time will overrun by around 20 minutes today, and I should like to thank the interpreters in advance for their forbearance.
The project will consider such matters as, for example, the trade in counterfeit medicinal products over the Internet.
The most important answer to your question is therefore that we need a growing understanding in our societies themselves that it is enterprises that create jobs, that there have to be entrepreneurs with the courage to do that, and that entrepreneurial activity has to be accepted as socially responsible, socially useful activity.
Vice-President of the Commission. (DE) Anyone who satisfies the legal requirements can become an entrepreneur.
A high-level working group, the 'Mechanical Engineering Dialogue', was set up at the end of 2005 to make a comprehensive analysis of the sector's competitiveness.
The Commission is looking at these matters together with industry and the Member States.
Subject: Carbon dioxide emissions from automobiles Commissioner Verheugen appears to be opposed to proposals from Commissioner Dimas regarding binding provisions concerning the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions for all categories of automobile, calling for a more 'integrated approach'.
Vice-President of the Commission. (DE) Honourable Member, as you know, the Commission only set benchmarks in its decision on vehicle CO2 emissions.
The growing of such crops, including sugar beet, can be supported by the granting of energy plant premiums of EUR 45 per hectare.
