Safety on the Community's railways - Amendment of Regulation (EC) No 881/2004 establishing a European Railway Agency (debate) The next item is the joint debate on - the recommendation for second reading by Paolo Costa, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on amending Directive 2004/49/EC on safety on the Community's railways (Railway Safety Directive) (16133/3/2007 - C6-0129/2008 -; - the recommendation for second reading by Paolo Costa, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism , on amending Regulation (EC) No 881/2004 establishing a European Railway Agency (Agency Regulation) (16138/3/2007 - C6-0131/2008 - rapporteur. - (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me to introduce our debate this evening, because we have reached the end of an endeavour which was initially very difficult but whose outcome, it seems to me, is highly significant.
It seems to me that a solution has been found here too: namely to adopt a version 2.3.0 of the current system and move ahead with that, bearing in mind that by 2012 we will have introduced the even more advanced, definitive system.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after the adoption of the first two rail packages, in 2001 and 2004, and just before the adoption of the third rail package in 2007, the Commission proposed, on 13 December 2006, a series of legislative measures on the cross-acceptance of existing rolling stock.
The results of the negotiations are still quite cautious: amendments to the two common positions that the Council had adopted on 3 March 2008, which the Commission can support completely.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Madam President, long before the European Union came into existence, we had a well-organised system of railways in most of Europe.
Nevertheless, we must still remain on our guard, especially when it comes to agencies. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, I first of all want to pay tribute to Paulo Costa for his excellent work.
I would also like to echo what my colleague Mr Rack said about the Agency: I believe that it is extremely important to give the Agency the resources it needs for its development and perhaps its democratisation so that Parliament can be more involved. (CS) The mandatory certification system for bodies in charge of maintenance and placing in service railway vehicles is the only railway system improvement.
In addition, it removes the requirement to have locomotives certified in every Member State and simplifies procedures as regards existing rolling stock. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to draw attention to two issues in this debate.
Secondly, support should also be given to the European Parliament amendments aimed at extending the competencies of the European Railway Agency, especially as regards issuing permits for the use of rolling stock that complies with the Technical Standard for Interoperability (TSI), making the Agency the central development body for introducing the European Rail Traffic Management System, and thirdly, giving the Agency the task of running the mandatory certification system as regards the maintenance of railway wagons and other rolling stock.
Having fallen after 1970 in most of the Member States, its market share has now stabilised and is showing clear signs of growth, which is excellent news.
As a consequence, I welcome the agreements reached on these three aspects - interoperability, safety and the Agency - and I would again like to thank Parliament, not only as a Commissioner but also as a former Member, for its rapid and excellent work on this text.
However, 400 kilometres in Europe means crossing borders.
The idea we pursued until a few years ago, of making trains learn to recognise more than one signalling system, was another option, but clearly that option was thwarted by the existence of more than 20 different systems in Europe.
