&#160;&#160; The next item is the oral question to the Commission by Joseph&#160;Daul and Jean-Claude&#160;Fruteau, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the forthcoming reform of the common organisation of the markets in sugar (B6-0013/2005). &#160;&#160; Mr President, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and as a sugar producer and grower, I will not be taking part in the final vote today.
But today I will not be voting in the final vote. &#160;&#160; I take note of what you have said. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Fruteau, I shall be very brief, because I am anxious to give my friend Mr Fruteau, who has written the report, the speaking time which he needs.
Secondly, we very much hope that this reform will make it possible to establish a market organisation which will foreshadow a new way of approaching our relations with third countries, and in particular the ACP countries, with which we are linked through the sugar protocol.
I am against the liberalisation of agricultural products at any price: it is the sort of dogmatism that can only lead to disaster.
That is why, Commissioner, together with my fellow MEPs, I believe that we should have instruments prohibiting triangular trade between competitive countries such as Brazil, poor countries and the European Union.
Thirdly, I should like to draw your attention to the difficulties which the Community sugar market is currently experiencing.
In these circumstances, Commissioner, an in-depth study should be carried out into this illogical solution which is currently in place on the Community sugar market, in order to determine the cause and find a way of managing this problem.
That is what I wanted to tell you on the three points with which we are concerned.
I shall now leave the rest of my speaking time to Mr&#160;Fruteau, who has worked very hard on this dossier.
Ladies and gentlemen, of course, after this speech, I am asking you to adopt the resolution, which has been approved, practically unanimously, by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 21 February the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, by 31 votes out of 35, adopted a common position on the reform of the common organisation of the markets in sugar.
This large majority demonstrates the degree of equilibrium which we achieved and which takes into account the opinions of most of the political groups and nationalities represented in this House.
Secondly, the lowering of prices and quotas must be limited to what is strictly necessary in order to take into account the interests of European farmers.
Finally, together with these four main themes, the draft resolution emphasises the need to take into consideration the special situation of the extremely remote areas of the Union, looking at their geographical and structural constraints as well as their specific economic and productive development needs.
The drafting of the resolution and the hearing on 30 November last year make valuable contributions to our thorough preparations for this important reform of the common organisation of the markets in sugar.
Allow me to make a few introductory remarks before responding to your questions.
With regard to price and quota cuts, I am convinced that there is a future for sugar production within the European Union, but that it must be based on competitiveness.
We therefore need to accept that sugar production should be concentrated in the areas where it has a sustainable long-term perspective.
The price cuts proposed in the communication will keep us well below current world market prices.
I am therefore convinced that the proposed 33% price cut and the 2.8&#160;million quota cut are a necessary minimum to achieve an effective reform, balance the market and respect our international obligations.
It is clear that the reform will force farmers and producers to take important, and sometimes difficult, decisions about their future in the sector.
Instead, a long-term perspective will be offered.
If we go beyond 60% then other sectors will have to pay, through a reduction in their direct payment.
Quota transfers could facilitate production moving to regions where the production conditions are best, and at the same time provide regions that are not competitive with an opportunity to give up their quota and invest the proceeds in alternative economically viable activities.
I have been particularly interested in the ideas put forward in the resolution on making the transfer subject to some degree of control by Member States and farmers, and on the setting-up of a special fund.
The creation of a specific fund forms a particularly important element of my reflections.
It would be a wrong signal to roll back our privileges to the LDCs, particularly in a year where we are trying to convince the rest of the developed world to follow our example and increase market access to developing countries.
Furthermore, a system with regulated imports at remunerative prices would lead to a price reduction which is too small and thus inefficient.
On the basis of an action plan the Commission presented on 24 January, a dialogue with the ACP countries is currently taking place.
It is the Commission’s intention to submit the final action plan on accompanying measures in the form of a communication to the European Parliament and the Council in mid-2005.
Our reform proposal will take due account of its outcome, and with that we will have brought the common market organisation for sugar into line with our existing WTO obligations.
For internal and external reasons I consider it absolutely necessary to reach an agreement on the sugar reform by November at the latest.
In fact, the current sugar regime expires on 1&#160;July&#160;2006.
Furthermore, we have a clear interest to indicate to our WTO ministerial partners, before the conference in December this year, what the basic elements of our sugar reform are.
Otherwise we run the risk of the sugar issue spoiling the Hong Kong meeting in the same way that cotton did the Cancún meeting.
The UK presidency has scheduled discussions in the Council in order to reach final political agreement in the November Council.
To meet this timeframe I will present the legislative proposal to the European Parliament and the Council by the summer.
I also, however, want to thank all the other Members of the House who have made constructive contributions to making this motion for a resolution what it is.
On my travels around my electoral district in Bavaria, sugar beet farmers ask me why it is necessary to amend, root and branch, the market organisation for sugar, which has stood the test of decades.
The farmers and workers concerned are very disappointed by the Commission’s proposals of 14 July 2004.
I then explain to them that the market organisation needs to be reformed in order that sugar beet may continue to be cultivated in Europe in the future.
What we want our motion for a resolution to achieve, Commissioner, is that sugar beet may in future continue to be grown in the European Union and sugar cane in its border areas, with sugar factories continuing to produce sugar.
This concerns 350&#160;000 farming families in Europe, and 230 sugar factories with an untold number of employees.
The Commission’s proposals go too far; in many European regions, sustainable cultivation of sugar beet would be a thing of the past, and sugar cane would no longer be grown in the border areas.
The only beneficiaries from the reform would be a few major sugar-growing countries such as Brazil, which, in contrast to the EU Member States, invariably produce their crops to very low environmental and social standards.
The argument that consumers in Europe would stand to gain from reduced sugar prices is one that leaves me cold, for, although cereals now cost not even one-third of what they did 40 years ago, the price of bread has multiplied over the same period of time.
The EU’s Council of Agriculture Ministers, at its meeting on 18&#160;November&#160;1997, described the multifunctional tasks of European agriculture in the following terms: ‘The Council believes that European commercial farming must be multifunctional, sustainable, competitive and spread throughout Europe.
It must be capable of caring for the countryside, maintaining the natural environment, making a substantial contribution to the vitality of rural areas and meeting consumers’ needs and requirements in terms of the quality and safety of food, and the protection of the environment and of animals.’ If you want that sort of multifunctional agriculture in Europe, then you have to grant it protection accordingly.
We therefore call for imported sugar to be produced subject to the same social and environmental standards as sugar produced in the EU.
We urge the Commission to comply with the demands of the ACP states and give consideration to how the EU, using a regulation for this purpose as part of the ‘Everything but Arms’ initiative, can continue in future to manage the quantity of sugar supplied.
Commissioner, we believe that the reduction in prices should be smaller and more gradual, and should remain coupled to a significant proportion of the aid in order not to unravel the economic and social fabric of the producing areas, which, in my country, are located in the least prosperous regions.
We believe that this method would produce, or could produce, a relocation of jobs and economic activity within the European Union, which would create the greatest imbalance in the least competitive States, and would create a dangerous precedent within the CAP.
I would like to end, Commissioner, by asking you to take account of something that both Mr Daul and Mr&#160;Fruteau, my two fellow rapporteurs for this proposal, have said: this resolution has been approved with a broad consensus in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development; so please present suitable legislative proposals that reflect the observations made in it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I should like to call for us to have the EU’s common organisation of the markets in the sugar sector reformed as soon as possible and the way prepared for a liberalisation of the whole market in sugar.
I therefore welcome a final settlement concerning the organisation of the markets in the sugar sector.
European sugar production is both efficient and competitive.
It is very important, however, for us to make it possible for production and, thus, also the quotas, to move to where production is best and thus also cheapest.
The latter have arranged their production in accordance with an artificial price in the European market, and they must naturally be helped in the transitional period that will exist on the way to freer competition in the world market.
If we include the C sugar, the cut will have to be by between 4 and 5 million tonnes, which will end up on the global market.
That is something we have to lay down, and what we have to do with the EUR&#160;1.3 billion that are not going to be used as a bonus is to put them in a fund for the development of the rural economy and for diversification in the least-developed countries and in the ACP countries, in order to enable their economies to develop.
We put money into these countries, and we have to put it to work – not by paying it as compensation, but by initiating economic development, by making them dependent on things other than sugar, enabling them to earn money by supplying sugar to the European Union with the preferences and quotas that they have, whilst at the same time enabling them to provide for themselves and promoting rural development in the artisanal and technical spheres.
Liberalising tendencies are present in all our political groups; that much is apparent from the amendments, including those from my own group, and you, Commissioner Fischer Boel, are – perhaps without even wanting to – making concessions to those tendencies by having to take the next step in five years’ time, when you will, in essence, be doing away with the organisation of the markets in sugar. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Commission proposal for the new sugar regulation and today's statements by the Commissioner basically come within the framework of the reform of the CAP – even if she does not admit as much – and, of course, of the spending cuts on agriculture.
The drastic reduction in prices and the reduction in quotas will erode the income of beet producers and force them to abandon farming, with no alternative means of survival other than unemployment.
At the same time, sugar factories which are not viable – and they are quite numerous – will close and entire areas will be abandoned, both in northern Greece and in Calais in France and in other countries.
Beet producers in the countries with which the European Union has preferential agreements will also lose, because it will import sugar at lower prices.
The only solution is the coordinated fight by farmers and workers to change this anti-farming and anti-grass roots policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, over-production of sugar is another manifestation of the obscene common agricultural policy that protects certain producers for political reasons and penalises consumers for the same political reasons.
The French produce 160% of their domestic requirements in sugar, and dump the rest on the Third World.
On a European level, the closure and abandonment of many sugar plants and the move away from sugar beet production by many agricultural enterprises all confirm that competitive pressure is constantly on the increase as a result of the reduction, in real terms, of the guaranteed price for volumes produced.
It should also protect the European single market, by introducing import restrictions; it should introduce more effective customs rules for checking the origins of products, reduce quotas to a level which would suffice for internal consumption and introduce or maintain measures to reduce the structural disparities – for instance, authorisation for state aid in order to protect the interests of farmers living in the Union's under-privileged areas, guaranteeing the continuation of a multifunctional agriculture throughout the European region. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, I agree with you that the analyses confirm that our only prospect lies in the enforcement of the market in the sugar sector as well.
In conclusion, I would like to confirm that we support the view that only more genuine competition in the European market, the sugar market included, will enable us to hold our own in competition in the dynamic and developing global market. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that society has, over recent years, started to make quite different demands of agriculture, and when I say that, I am thinking not only of CAP reform and of the current WTO negotiations.
If these demands are to be met in every area, it is understandable that the common market organisation for sugar has to be reformed.
That having been said, Commissioner, the role of policy must be to create fair framework conditions under which our farmers can continue to produce sugar in the European Union, and do so sustainably, economically, and in a socially acceptable way.
Thirdly, they should express the international solidarity of the European Union with developing countries.
In view of the foregoing, I consider the following to be particularly negative points in the Commission communication: First, the lack of compensation for beet producers' incomes following the reduction in support for products; when the CAP was reformed for cereals and beef, compensation covered 90% of the reductions in direct subsidies, whereas for sugar they only cover 60%.
Secondly, the system of transferring quotas between Member States proposed by the European Commission will result in the concentration of production in specific regions only.
In particular, commitments in the sugar sector should not exceed the limits which are absolutely necessary within the framework of the WTO.
Similarly, the economic and social repercussions in less developed countries should be handled tactfully and efficiently on the basis of the choices of the developing countries themselves.
This way it would be clear to all that sugar production was being transferred to the regions best suited to its cultivation, and it would end in countries that were unfavourable in terms of their natural conditions.
I was happy to note that in your opening speech you were prepared to re-examine this point. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would thank the Commissioner for sticking with a reform of the sugar markets, however modest this may be.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development’s resolution is, however, appalling, at least if global solidarity has even a minor role to play in political life.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development believes that sugar production in the EU and, preferably, throughout the world should be regulated by quotas.
Sugar production should instead be set free.
The committee makes a few polite nods in the direction of the developing countries, but it is transparently obvious that its main concern is sugar production in the EU.
To impose quotas and the EU’s social and environmental standards upon all the other countries would be to disregard the ‘Everything But Arms’ agreement which says that, by 2009, the least-developed countries should be able freely to sell sugar to the EU.
This is also apparent from the fact that what the EU saves on export subsidies for sugar is now to be used to secure incomes, and not for the developing countries.
The proposal to use sugar as a fuel is beyond the pale.
Our experience of the coffee market and of sugar production in Brazil is hardly going to convince us.
They will be able to exploit a little more the suffering men and women who are often paid less than 100 dollars a month.
Despite the fact that, for over 40 years, the greater part of the European Union’s investments have been devoted to the development of the cane-sugar sector, and the fact that that sector represents one third of final agricultural production, 25% of electric production and three quarters of exports, it is now proposed to call into question the very existence of this strategic development action, without there being any possibility of an alternative which could cope with the consequences.
Mr President, let me finish by saying that we are convinced that there are solutions to be found within a real policy on the regulation of the sugar market, of which Europe should be the promoter. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed reform of the common organisation of the market in sugar runs counter to the aims of the common agricultural policy, namely ensuring a dignified standard of living for farmers and the sustainable development of agriculture, and it also contradicts the Lisbon Strategy.
The proposal to reduce both the A and B quotas is unacceptable.
Its impact will be strongest in the new Member States, particularly in Poland, where the sector has already been cut drastically in recent years, and only 43 out of the original 78 sugar processing plants remain.
Instead, workers are being condemned to unemployment, and consumers are paying more for their sugar, not less.
The Commission’s proposal for reform of the sugar market will result in a monopoly by the large undertakings that are already absorbing their competitors.
Sugar beet growing and sugar processing have a long tradition in my country, dating back almost 80 years.
The impact assessment adopted earlier by the Commission shows that Ireland is one of countries particularly vulnerable to price reductions for sugar and sugar beet.
The implications of the proposal on price and quota cuts, even allowing for compensation, would make sugar beet growing no longer viable in Ireland.
The proposals in their current form would be devastating for the Irish industry at both growing and processing levels and there would be a direct threat to the 3,800 farmers currently growing sugar beet.
The European Commission's initial reform ideas are already causing unacceptable casualties.
This view was also expressed by the agriculture ministers of 10 Member States, including Ireland, in a joint submission to the Agriculture Commissioner.
However, reform should aim at maintaining the existing distribution of sugar beet and sugar production in the entire European Union territory.
The transfer of quotas among Member States should not be allowed.
A few years ago a feasibility study was commissioned by the sugar processing sector in Ireland, with a view to producing bio-ethanol using surplus sugar beet.
Because of the current reform process in the sugar sector, it is time for all the governments concerned, all the relevant Commission directorates and the commercial sector to act and seriously re-examine the possibility of developing a sugar-based bio-ethanol industry.
Commissioner, I appeal to you again to have another look at your proposals, come back and be mindful of the people that you represent. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the system of national limits creates unfair divisions in the European sugar market.
Nonetheless, the issue of reform of the common organisation of the market in sugar should be approached very carefully.
Mr&#160;Daul’s and Mr&#160;Fruteau’s motion for a resolution is very well-balanced, and provides for the interests of all the parties concerned.
The sugar regime therefore needs to be reformed in order to fit in to our new agricultural policy.
At the same time, though, a full liberalisation of the sugar market would have an adverse effect, not only on the European sugar industry but also on the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries and less-developed countries.
We must follow the CAP principles we have established.
In order to establish competitive sugar production in the EU there must be cross-border quota transfers to allow more efficient areas of the EU to be ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, allow me to chip in with my own, somewhat different angle.
Dumping does indeed cost us EUR 800 million per annum, and is completely at odds with what is supposed to be done according to the world trade agreements.
The Commission proposal still maintains a world price, or market price in Europe, which is double – or, nowadays, three times – the world price.
This is where the funds that we ourselves save in this sector of agriculture could be used, not only for the European agricultural sector, but also for the ACP countries.
Commissioner, you were right in saying that we should steer clear of ‘Everything but Arms’.
I wholeheartedly support the proposals, and I hope that you want to improve and strengthen them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when Commissioner Fischler tabled his three proposals about a year ago, it was evident that only one of them was reasonable.
What is essential to the whole sugar policy is the issue of what the future price of sugar in Europe will be.
Finally, I should like to say something about Mr van den Berg’s amendments.
Development aid is not only for farmers, it is intended for all sections of society. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to thank the MEP who honourably declared his interests.
Today, the Commission is my ally, in spite of the fact that the reform does not go far enough.
Small farmers, consumers and poor countries are hit.
If we take account of the effects upon literally millions of people around the world, current policy is scandalous.
It is good that my fellow MEPs in the Committee on Agriculture are going to Mali in April where they are to defend today’s report before the ACP-EU Assembly.
The Committee on Development and the Committee on Agriculture should share the responsibility.
It is hypocritical to use today’s proposal to defend subsidy-dependent sugar production in every corner of the EU and, at the same time, demand thoroughgoing reform in all the poor countries.
There is also a need to maintain stability, safeguard refinery supplies and preserve the balance between the refining and processing of sugar beet, if we are to avoid the disaster that this reform would entail on the basis of the proposal before us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European industrial beet producing sector has said a unanimous "no" to the European Commission’s proposal and has spoken out against a reduction in institutional prices, a cut in production quotas and the possibility of transferring quotas, a measure that would clearly benefit the most competitive countries at the expense of others, such as Spain.
Spanish beet producers alone will suffer losses that could amount to as much as EUR 60 million per year.
The possibility of transferring quotas from one country to another would lead to a concentration of European production in a few regions and the impoverishment of rural life in many areas in which sugar beet production plays a very important social and economic role.
The Commission does not take account of the situation of countries such as Spain, whose production of sugar has always been in deficit.
In my view, the draft resolution of the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development must be seen as a document of minimums, which should provide the basis for the negotiations within the Council of Ministers of the European Union.
The Commission should not once again ignore the concerns of the sector and should take careful note of what I hope will be this Parliament's rejection of its proposal in the vote that will take place today.
We must avoid causing thousands of producers to stop producing sugar in Europe.
The reform ought to guarantee appropriate compensation for producers following price and quota cuts.
I should like to draw your attention to the fact that Amendment No 38, which seeks to freeze isoglucose quotas, would have very serious consequences for both Poland and Hungary.
In this area we support the Commission’s position.
The sugar protocol to the Cotonou Agreement accords them preferential treatment for their exports to Europe, which they can sell at the same, subsidised price as the European producers.
It can surely never be the intention for tens of thousands of farmers in the South to be plunged into even greater poverty as a result of our sugar reform. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should first of all like to congratulate the Commissioner on addressing the issues raised by this debate.
I am therefore surprised that there are still many in this discussion who still believe that the liberalisation of the world food trade is the perfect solution to resolve all evils in development cooperation and the fight against poverty.
Over the past ten years, world trade in food has been further liberalised, and Europe now accounts for 85% of exports from Africa to the developed word.
I believe in agreements, worldwide and in Europe, in order to achieve responsible reform.
His idea that the agricultural budget should fund development aid amounts, in my view, to nothing more or less than doing your shopping using someone else’s wallet .
It is rather unfortunate that this resolution takes no account of the points of view of the trade or development committees, and I hope we will be able to do that when the House comes to debate and consider the Regulation.
I have tabled Amendment No 37, which I hope will be supported.
It explicitly reiterates our support for the ‘Everything but Arms’ initiative, and, in that context, for the reforms to which reference has been made.
Perhaps I might also be permitted to respond in a small way to Mr Sturdy’s interesting comment that he intends to abstain, or refrain from voting, on the grounds that he, while being a member of the Agriculture Committee, is also a producer for the sugar market.
Perhaps you could say something more on the subject. &#160;&#160; – Thank you Mr President.
The present sugar regime has been in force, unchanged, for 40&#160;years.
The main shortcomings of the present sugar regime are the lack of competition, market distortions and high prices.
Today Estonia is one of the Member States with the lowest average income, and the price of sugar will affect the quality of life of people with a lower income in particular.
The price of sugar in European Union countries is up to three times higher than the world market price.
Knowing this, people in our country rushed to buy sugar just before accession, and we are now in a situation where our sugar reserves are larger than those permitted in the EU.
We ask you to take into consideration your own Directive No 6… &#160;&#160; Mr President, today we are debating the difference between reform and destruction, between helping the developing world and enriching the powerful forces in the global sugar market.
Reform of the sugar market is required, but destruction of the sugar market to the detriment of workers and farmers here in the European Union is not acceptable.
These reforms are too drastic in terms of price and quota cuts.
The inevitable consequence is the closure of the sugar industry in some Member States.
The proposal to trade quotas across borders is a new departure and one which will assist in the winding down of the sugar industry, especially in peripheral regions.
In reality their lives will be made even more miserable, as the barons grab land and destroy the environment in pursuit of profit.
We have a chance to get it right for the developing world and the EU sugar industry, but the current proposals are not the solution to this dilemma. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, it is hardly surprising that there should be such strong feelings about the proposed reform of the sugar market.
The three-fold increase in its price makes it difficult for this industry to develop and compete on the world market.
The third and most important aspect of the proposed reform is its impact on agriculture within the Union.
This is particularly true in the case of my country, Poland, which is the third largest sugar producer.
Implementation of the reform and an unrestricted transfer of quotas is likely to lead to production being concentrated in plants in countries that benefited from Union support in the past.
Mr&#160;Daul’s and Mr&#160;Fruteau’s motion for a resolution contains many good ideas.
The Commission must draft a new document to help both Brazilian farmers and farmers in the new Member States.
In particular, politicians need to explain to their electorate why they are proposing to deprive them of something they had spent so many years getting them used to. &#160;&#160; MEPs representing the new Member States can now for the first time take part in the debate on reform of the common agricultural policy.
We find this unacceptable not only from the social and economic point of view, but also because in Hungary farmers cultivate sugar beet on the best quality land, and if cultivation of sugar beet stops, then it will be replaced by wheat, thus further increasing the wheat surplus.
It prevents the abuse of trade discounts set up by the EU, as is happening for example in the case of the western Balkan countries, because this illegal trade does not benefit producers in other countries for whom the preferences were originally intended, but the exporters of third countries, such as the Brazilians.
Although on this question we have no legislative powers, and can only voice our opinion, I nevertheless trust that the Commission and the Council will take this opinion into account. &#160;&#160; Mr President, whilst I admire the way my colleagues have pursued the interests of farmers and share their anxiety about the future of farming, I cannot agree with the approach they outline in the resolution.
A 33% reduction in price support for sugar, a reduction in the quota and an end to export subsidies for sugar would all send a powerful signal to the Doha Development Round.
If the Commissioner's timing can be adhered to and we can adopt our final proposal in November, this would create a very good environment in advance of the December Hong Kong meeting.
That would be good news.
Finally, the 60% compensation scheme is equivalent to full compensation and the Commissioner should keep reiterating that. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has been confronted with the necessity and challenge of reforming its sugar policy, and indeed its agricultural policy as a whole.
The current high sugar prices are having a negative impact on both European consumers and the poorest developing countries.
I thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it must surely be possible to take the multifarious statements that have been made today and make of some of them a legislative proposal for making sugar production sustainable both here and in what we call the developing world.
To those, however, who believe that a global market price must be imposed, I would like to say that nowhere in the world could anyone produce at such prices in a way that does not harm the environment, is socially just, and is also rational.
The Brazilian Government is endeavouring to introduce social and ecological standards in this area, and we should be supporting it in that.
I do believe, though, that we will come up with proper solutions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Commissioner has heard many speeches today, as well as my remarks at the beginning of the debate this morning.
I say to Mr Martin that I was surprised that the PSE Group tabled so many amendments, particularly to the resolution.
I did not realise its members felt they had the right to be spokesmen for the LDC and ACP countries, which have a slightly different view from what is proposed in their amendments.
I have been listening with great interest to all the various statements.
We also need a reform in order to live up to our international commitments.
The Commission has carried out an impact analysis that gives a clear answer to the main questions relating to the reform proposal, including its regional effects.
The Member State then fixes the quantities each sugar producer is allowed to produce under the national quota, and the sugar producers themselves may then distribute sugar directly to the farmer on the basis of delivery rights.
This would mean that companies have access to valuable quota rights, which can be transferred and then paid for.
However, in the case of the transfer of a quota, the company concerned would not only have to use the money paid for the quota for its own restructuring, but also for compensating the sugar beet farmers for the devaluation of their delivery rights.
The payments out of the fund could take the form of compensatory payments to farmers who suffered from the abandonment of sugar production in a given area.
Many Members have criticised the transfer of quotas.
It is clear that the reform will force farmers and producers to take important and sometimes difficult decisions about their future in the sector.
Instead, a long-term perspective should be offered.
Finally, let me summarise the main intentions of this reform.
The debate is closed.
In actual fact, those areas run the risk of suffering as a result of the proportionately more favourable treatment given to the ACP countries with which they are in direct competition, and as a result of the restrictions on their development capacity, whilst at the same time they do not play a part in the Community sugar surplus production.
It is absolutely essential that the Commission, in its next proposals for the reform of the sugar COM, should translate the promised ‘special treatment’ for the extremely remote areas into specific technical measures accompanied by financial resources which correspond to the real needs of the sector and to the development objectives of those areas.
I am counting on your support, Commissioner, to ensure that the legislative proposals for reform which the Commission will shortly be submitting will show a better understanding of the situation in our most remote regions. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0039/2005) by Mrs&#160;Aubert, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the European action plan for organic food and farming [2004/2202(INI)]. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about organic farming there is a real paradox.
However, despite a growing demand on the part of consumers for products originating from organic farming, the organically farmed areas and organic production are not increasing, and still represent a very marginal share of overall production of agricultural products.
It was with great astonishment that we learned of the Commission’s action plan in favour of organic farming, which we had been hoping would be particularly ambitious and accompanied by the appropriate resources.
This is why the Members of the European Parliament wanted to see a much firmer commitment to organic farming, much firmer than information campaigns which, useful though they may be, seem to us to be an inadequate response to the issues at stake.
Consequently, we believe that major investments need to be made, in particular to make the specifications for different products in different Member States more consistent and more precise, and to make better use of rural development funds by defining much more clearly the share which is assigned to organic farming.
We hope that the FEADER programme, which is devoted to rural development, will make it possible to reply to these questions.
These rural development funds also need to be strengthened.
We would also like to make organic farming the subject of priority research within the framework of the European research programmes.
We want increased aid to be granted to the economic structuring of the organic sector, from production and processing to distribution and marketing.
It is also necessary to settle the issue of genetically modified organisms, and to improve significantly the inspection and fraud control systems in this area.
All this must be done in collaboration with the people involved in the sector, the producer associations, consumers, cooperatives and all those who have been committed, for many years, to organic farming, unfortunately without much support.
The European Parliament must also be fully associated with these policies, and I would draw your attention to the fact that any amendment to the regulation on organic farming should also be the subject of consultations with the Members of the European Parliament.
On the contrary, we believe that organic farming can be the spearhead of a truly sustainable agricultural industry.
The action plan gave me an opportunity to listen carefully to the stakeholders and to make use of their practical experiences in the further development of the agricultural sector.
Secondly, organic farming plays an essential role in the reform of the CAP.
I hope to return to give you my final comments and to listen to those of the Members of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, especially for being so concise.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, Ambassadors, a year ago, on the initiative of the European Parliament, our Union decided that 11 March would become European Day for the Victims of Terrorism.
And we did so because, a year ago, Madrid awoke to the blasts of the bombs that cost the lives of 192 citizens of various countries.
But, even during the toughest times in the fight against the terrorist group ETA, Spanish society never gave up its freedom.
Nevertheless, on that 11 March, that new and even more horrific attack added to the dynamic created by another attack, 11&#160;September&#160;2001 in New York and in Washington, which had woken the western world from its confident tranquillity and changed the world’s geopolitical pattern.
On that 11 September, we said that we were all Americans.
Today, in the Plaza de Atocha, the candles which turned it into a shrine of commemoration are no longer there, but the memory is still there, the memory of the victims who, as a sign of our respect, must become the symbol of our unity and not the banners of our political confrontation.
On that 11 March, the Europeans came face-to-face with a global view of the problem of terrorism.
Until then, each country had had its own terrorists, but after 11&#160;September, firstly, and then 11 March, terrorism took on a global dimension that required a global response.
Many of the measures provided for in the action plan adopted by the Council following 11 March have yet to be fully applied, which must remind us that in order to combat terrorism we also need more Europe, because we are now aware that the traditional forms of judicial and police cooperation are not enough.
The European Parliament has always been in the vanguard in the fight against terrorism, despite the limited role attributed to it by the Treaties in this area.
which is a fundamental element in the fight against organised crime and its links with terrorism?
Let us not forget that, in order to guarantee our security, it is essential to promote dialogue and integration between cultures and religions, without forgetting development cooperation.
Our group has examined the issue of organic farming in very great depth, and regards it as very important.
In certain European regions, such as Andalusia, over the last decade we have increased the area dedicated to these crops from 2&#160;000 to 300&#160;000 hectares as a result of the regional government being the first in Europe to have a serious and budgeted action plan for ecological crops.
Ecological agriculture must become an integral part of a production system that supports the environment.
We believe that the action plan that we are voting on today is a first step and an opportunity for debate, but it is a weak and unambitious step.
The introduction of GMOs will result in the devastation of the natural environment.
The future of European farming lies in organic agriculture and animal husbandry based on traditional and natural methods.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome this debate because, following the reform of the CAP, farmers need to look at alternative methods of increasing farm incomes.
For some farmers this could be organic farming.
The number of air miles involved in transporting the products is also a consumer concern.
First, the Member States must, when planning the application of the reformed common agricultural policy at national level, encourage young farmers to become active in the production of organic products, as well as granting rights from their national reserves for the promotion of organic farming in designated areas.
The second issue – and this relates to the first – is the problem of the coexistence of organic crops and genetically modified products.
It is time we made an honest decision for the citizens of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, organic farming means nature governing food, but the EU wants a law of nature written in Brussels.
Organic products come in all shapes and sizes, but the EU cannot accept that.
The CAP destroyed areas of British agriculture, and now the EU wants to destroy British organic agriculture.
It is an issue of vital importance to organic farmers and their customers and to all stakeholders.
We must insist on the right to take part in all decisions made about our environment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome this report on organic food and farming.
The growth of this industry in some Member States is to be applauded, but it must be acknowledged that some Member States have provided less financial support than others.
It is the long-term future of agriculture.
First, with regard to public support for sustainable agriculture, the action plan acknowledges the role of organic farming in society.
Consumers must be given the correct information in order to stimulate demand.
I am fully aware that we need to make use of the best expertise available when taking the further steps set out in the plan.
I have a great deal of sympathy for your call to promote organic food for children and school canteens, but want to have advice on this from specialists.
At the same time, I see no contradiction in organic producers underlining the region of origin of their own products if they wish to.
Innovation in organic farming and food processing relies, to a great extent, on research.
The action plan recommends that Member States make full use of the rural development policy possibilities available; not only agri-environmental measures, but also investment, extension services, quality schemes and all the other rural development elements that can be used to help organic farmers extend their production.
I appreciate the comments you have made and look forward to working with you on this important issue in the future. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place during voting time, which will begin now. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a few minutes ago we were called in this Parliament to observe a moment of silence in memory of those who died in the terrorism events in Spain and to remember all those of our constituents who have died from terrorism.
Mr President, I ask that when we have a moment of solemn silence it should mean silence for the cameramen and everybody in this Chamber and not just for those on the ground floor. &#160;&#160; Mr Bowis, your comment will be passed on.
It is a constant disgrace that business is chopped and changed in this Parliament without consulting those who really count: the Members sitting here. &#160;&#160; Very well, I shall pass on your comment to the session staff, but I would remind Members that we also have votes following this afternoon’s debates.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because I am convinced that the Commission will make good use of this instrument and that it will deploy its resources to achieve those objectives, thus justifying the very firm support it received in the relevant committee. &#160;&#160; At a time when the damage both to the environment and to public health caused by conventional methods of food production indicates that it is vital to look for alternatives, and that there is a need to guarantee access to safe and sustainably produced food, it is important for the European Parliament to adopt a position on this.
This support may be in the form of incentives for producers or in the form of measures to protect organic crops from the risks involved in the use of GMOs.
The risks to the environment caused by GMOs are not yet known, and there is no way to guarantee their containment, and there is therefore a danger that they will contaminate the species alongside which they are grown. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of Mrs Aubert’s report on the European Action Plan for Organic Food and Farming, because I believe that it raises fundamental questions about the very future of organic farming.
We need to be aware that this type of agriculture now accounts for an important share of the food market and of agricultural production in the European Union.
The Action Plan sets out to address three key priorities: information-led development of the organic food market by providing the public with more information and increasing consumer awareness; making public support for organic farming more effective; and improving and reinforcing the Community’s organic farming standards and import and inspection requirements.
Since 1985, we have witnessed a significant increase in the number of agricultural holdings and acreage devoted to organic farming.
The report before us advocates the introduction of additional and enhanced measures with a view to eliminating these obstacles.
I voted in favour of the report. &#160;&#160; – I voted in favour of Mrs Aubert's report which encourages the development of organic food and agriculture.
These practices have been developing constantly in Europe for several years now and meet a demand from European consumers for a healthy and varied diet.
Farmers suffer from these fluctuations whereas, instead, they should be seeing the reward for all their efforts and investment.
It is absolutely essential to avoid a situation in which certain farmers are forced to sell at a loss.
Defending organic farming means taking a stand for quality and safety, not forgetting freedom of choice for consumers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, if I had been given the chance to speak in the debate on International Women’s Day and Beijing + 10, I would have said that it was actually a shame that violence against women is a long-running issue in this House, although thankfully it is less prevalent than other important problems that affect far more women – untold millions of them, in fact, who have for years been waiting for solutions called for, I might add, by overwhelming majorities in this House.
I also recall our 1996 report on the status of spouses who help out in small businesses and in agriculture.
Ten years ago, we were demanding the lifting of directive 86 on the equal treatment of self-employed men and women and the spouses who help them out.
Capacities and aptitudes are the criteria according to which job applicants must be selected; whether they are men or women is less relevant in this context.
He should treat his own life, that of others, as well as existing and unborn life, with due responsibility. &#160;&#160; The Moderate delegation has voted in favour of the resolution but wishes to emphasise certain problems we see with the wording.
The resolution regards the world’s women as a homogeneous group, a fact we regard as very unfortunate, because the position of women varies very dramatically indeed from one country to the next.
The situation of women in the developing countries is confused with the situation of women in Europe, as if they were comparable problems.
The resolution confuses issues that belong at EU level with those that are quite clearly national issues or, quite simply, matters to be decided by individuals.
We should have preferred it if the focus had been upon women in the developing countries, where they are in a very vulnerable situation.
The wordings concerning the developing countries relate, to a large degree, to issues to which the EU should call attention in the Common Foreign and Security Policy and in aid policy.
We should have liked the resolution to have stood up for men’s and women’s equal rights and the defence of human rights throughout the world. &#160;&#160; On 10&#160;March&#160;2005, I voted against the resolution on the Follow-up to the Fourth World Conference on Women – Platform for Action (Beijing +10).
In the final analysis, it was because of that wording that I was unable to vote in favour of the resolution. &#160;&#160; I and my British Conservative colleagues have abstained on the resolution concerning the 4th World Conference on Women because we do not believe that it deals with the most vital issues appropriately or in a truly practical way.
The Conservative Party leads the way in championing respect and rights for women.
Human trafficking, prostitution and genital mutilation are just some of the horrors facing girls and women in developing countries.
We talk a lot about gender mainstreaming; I would ask that we also give thought to family mainstreaming when taking policy decisions that affect society.
On commercial farms, women work for around 63 hours a week.
Farmers’ wives do unpaid work at home, on the farm and for the family in exactly the same way as all women work in addition to the time they spend doing a job, but statistics take no account of what they do; it is still not taken seriously by society, and is not recognised as an economic factor.
All too often, Europe has announced its good intentions of defending the dignity of the individual, of women or children, without being able to translate that into concrete and genuinely effective action.
We therefore propose that a directive should be issued prohibiting the practice of female sexual mutilation, that steps should be taken to provide proper education on the problem, and, in particular, to provide support to immigrants from countries in which these customs are tolerated and even considered legitimate.
Additionally, we believe it is necessary that a public awareness campaign should be promoted on the phenomenon of violence against women, that proper information should be made available on respect for women’s health and physical safety and that the criminal law of European Union Member States should treat the practice of sexual mutilation of women as an aggravating factor in the crime of assault and battery. &#160;&#160; Taking advantage of the fact that the plenary is meeting on International Women’s Day, Parliament has decided, by means of this motion for a resolution, to highlight some well-known aspects of the situation of women which are to be deplored and which we should combat.
Anyone who is opposed to a gender war or to a quota policy or to confusing what is it to be in a minority with what it is to be a woman, is all the more duty-bound to fight for full respect for women’s unique role in society, in the family and as individuals, and for legal provisions to apply which give them genuine equality, while respecting the natural differences between all of us and in particular fully respecting something that is vital regardless of gender: individual liberty, and each person’s inalienable right to individual happiness. &#160;&#160; This week we are celebrating International Women’s Day, which gives us an opportunity to take stock of the progress made at world level as regards women’s equality, liberty, development, recognition and participation in civic life.
In the area that I follow most closely, social policy, there is a need to strengthen all those measures that help to combat all aspects of inequality between men and women in the workplace, be it wage levels, career progression or access to the labour market.
It is a despicable practice.
The reason why, in spite of everything, we choose to vote in favour of the resolution has to do with the situation that gave rise to it, that is to say the exploitation of poor women in Romania, which is something we view seriously, without having a detailed knowledge of all the facts. &#160;&#160; – I voted against the joint resolution on the planned egg trade, which is little more than a flight of fancy.
The mere possibility that women may be forced to use their bodies as part of an obscene new trade should be enough to make us all commit ourselves to combating this practice by acting without delay.
It is a disastrous signal from 307 Members to couples waiting for the gift of life, but also to the hundreds of thousands of patients in Europe who are placing all their hopes for a cure on research – diabetics and sufferers from Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s and many other diseases.
There are 199 of us in this Parliament whose ambition is still undiminished, namely to respond to these hopes, not merely by a vote for progress and solidarity, but above all by supporting modern and humanistic medical research in the interests of patients awaiting treatment. &#160;&#160; – At puberty, a young woman only has a limited number of egg cells – approximately 500 – which are released one by one at each menstrual cycle.
Given these circumstances, it is clear that this issue goes far beyond Directive 2004/23/EC; it is impossible to call for demand to be met while at the same time stating that the donation of egg cells should be voluntary and free.
The resolution contains, however, proposals that would gradually strengthen the role of the EU’s foreign and defence policy, something that would be in danger of weakening the UN’s position. &#160;&#160; Hiroshima was devastated by an atomic bomb sixty years ago this summer.
The treaty regime is weaker than it has been since its entry into force in 1970.
Only the United States have used nuclear weapons, committing a huge crime against humanity in Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
In the case of North Korea, however, there are more than indications, there are clear statements and instances of behaviour on the part of the leaders of that country that should give the international community pause for thought about what actions it may have to take in due course.
World security calls for careful reflection, respect for the law and courage when the time comes for a decision. &#160;&#160; In developing their nuclear arms programmes, North Korea and Iran have adopted an approach that obviously indicates contempt for international law and for the agreements they have signed, the consequences of which are clearly damaging for world peace and political stability.
Such behaviour, which borders on belligerence in some cases, calls for a firm and united response on the part of the European Union.
Lastly, I believe that the EU and its Member States should put up a common front at the 2005 Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference, and exhort the international community to strengthen programmes designed to prevent the spread of nuclear materials, technology and know-how, and to adopt additional measures to avoid terrorists or those that harbour them having access to weapons of mass destruction and their components.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; While we support a robust NPT and steps to curtail the nuclear programmes of North Korea and Iran, we have abstained on this resolution because we are not in agreement with the following paragraphs in particular: paragraphs 10 and 19 - we believe that conventional forces alone cannot ensure credible deterrence, that nuclear weapons make a unique contribution in rendering the risks of aggression against the UK and its allies incalculable and unacceptable and consequently that they remain essential to preserving peace; paragraph 15 - we do not agree that the EU has a role in coordinating intelligence; paragraph 17 - we believe that the presence of United States conventional and nuclear forces in Europe remain vital to the security of the continent and consequently it would be wrong to call on "the USA to clarify the situation of the quantity and strategic objectives of its tactical nuclear arsenals stationed on European bases"; paragraph 18 - Israel has not declared that it possesses nuclear weapons and therefore it is in appropriate to include Israel in this context; paragraph 31 - the United States has not declared that it would "not engage in preventive military action against Iran", and it would be wrong to rule out any option at this stage. &#160;&#160; We welcome the development of a peaceful and democratic Lebanon as an important part of a peaceful and democratic Middle East.
This resolution obscures the fundamental issue, the ‘cause of causes’, that is to say the role of the United states and of Israel, which is in military occupation of Palestinian, Syrian and even Lebanese territory, in aggravating the situation in the Middle East.
We accordingly disagree with the overall approach of the resolution. &#160;&#160; The European Parliamentary Labour Party supports the resolution on the situation in Lebanon, in particular its focus on the importance of free, democratic and transparent parliamentary elections, the need for a complete and rapid withdrawal of Syrian forces and intelligence, and hopes for reform to spread across the wider Middle East.
Hezbollah represents significant public support in Lebanon, and our hope should be that Hezbollah rejects terrorism and embraces the political process. &#160;&#160; – Parliament has just passed a resolution calling for the withdrawal of Syrian troops from Lebanon.
The re-establishment of Lebanese independence also requires that those Lebanese who were forced to leave their country should be able to return and that all political prisoners, prominent among whom is Samir Geagea, should be set free.
The most recent in a long list of acts of violence that stretches back to antiquity was the deplorable assassination of former Prime Minister Hariri, demonstrating just how far there is to go before Lebanon achieves stability and also the degree of uncertainty hanging over the current elections.
I am therefore pleased to see the withdrawal of Syria’s troops, but I feel bound to condemn the relationship that this country has maintained with Hezbollah and the way in which it has interfered, directly or surreptitiously, in the internal affairs of Lebanon, a sovereign state.
Research must support innovation, but it should not be totally redirected solely towards increasing competitiveness, as is the case with the Commission’s guidelines, following Wim Kok’s report. - Greater attention needs to be paid to the working conditions of all those engaged in research.
The rapporteur states that the EU needs 700&#160;000 new researchers by 2010 if the target of 3% of GDP investment in research and development is to be reached.
This implies adequate investment in human resources in order to produce more researchers. &#160;&#160; Research is a vital area for the long-term success of the European Union as regards innovation and competitiveness.
It will only be possible to create the European Research Area by increasing the EU’s financial support for research, in the context of improved coordination between European, national and regional research policies.
The EU needs 700&#160;000 new adequately skilled researchers by 2010 if the target of 3% of GDP investment in technological research and development is to be reached.
It is vital to improve framework conditions for private research, since in it is estimated that the EU needs 700&#160;000 new, adequately skilled researchers by 2010 if the target of 3% of GDP investment in Research and Development (R[amp]D) is to be reached.
Furthermore, to reach this target, two thirds of the investment in research should come from the business sector.
There should be sufficient coupling at European and national level to ensure a uniform quality of funded projects.
I also welcome the call to increase support for R[amp]D and innovation in renewable energies following The International Conference for Renewable Energies (Bonn, June 2004). &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Locatelli (A6-0046/2005) on Science and technology – Guidelines for future European Union policy to support research, because I advocate strong and effective research policies for Europe.
I am very much aware of the difficulty of achieving the objectives set out in the Lisbon Strategy, and I accordingly continue to support a European Union research and development policy as one of the main instruments for promoting Europe’s growth and competitiveness.
The objective of making Europe more competitive requires funding for research.
The Kok report on the Lisbon Strategy stated that it is necessary to increase the attractiveness of Europe for researchers and scientists.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; – European Union support for research must be in step with the objectives set out in the Lisbon Strategy.
A country such as Belgium has a duty to follow the example of certain of its European neighbours who have had the courage to invest in scientific research.
With 3.5% of GDP devoted to research, it has already exceeded the EU’s 3% objective for 2010.
The annual number of new PhD students has doubled in ten years and the country has added an extra 26&#160;000 researchers over the same period (+50%).
On average, a young European researcher working in the USA has a research grant 2.5 times higher than in Europe.
It is vital that, now we have created the Natura 2000 network, we are prepared to find the money to continue to finance it where necessary. &#160;&#160; – I voted against the Auken report as I believe we cannot compromise future financial prospects by determining the expenditure for a single area of environmental policy in advance. &#160;&#160; The preservation of biodiversity and the reversal of desertification are essential in ensuring sustainable development.
Those resources intended only for the management and organisation of the Natura 2000 areas must be kept to a minimum.
The report before us advocates joint responsibility between the Community and Member States.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; The Labour members voted against this resolution for a number of reasons.
And we voted against it because we think it is bad for the developing world.
The first one was sugar and public health.
The second aspect is Lisbon.
Europe must grant farmers from developing countries full access to the market.
That in itself is sufficient reason to vote against the draft resolution. &#160;&#160; We are aware of allegations that the present arrangements for the sugar sector have distorted the market, leading to high prices for the consumer and a negative impact on the world market, particularly for developing countries.
It was because of these allegations that in July 2004 the Commission brought forward a proposal for reforming the COM for sugar, based on a two-stage price reduction phased over three years of 37% in the guarantee price and 33% in the institutional price; on the abolition of the intervention price, which is currently three times the world market price; and on eliminating public intervention, which will be replaced by a system of private stocks.
Furthermore, sugar production quotas and subsidised exports are also to be reduced.
The only support envisaged is the introduction of income aid in the form of a decoupled payment to sugar beet producers to partially compensate them – for 60% of the total – for the loss of income resulting from the reduction in prices, together with the introduction of possible transfers of quotas between operators in different Member States.
Moreover, today’s high agricultural subsidies involve EU products being dumped on the world market, something that has serious consequences for the developing countries.
Today, the European Parliament has voted on a resolution subsequent to an oral question put by Mr&#160;Daul and Mr&#160;Fruteau.
I chose to vote against the resolution as a whole since it is mainly oriented towards maintaining the status quo.
Sugar producers in certain developing countries too will be affected by the reform of the common organisation of the market in sugar.
The current system is not entirely to their disadvantage.
Instead, these countries should be supported through other measures such as increased development cooperation and technical trade support. &#160;&#160; The British Conservatives support the oral question and resolution on the common organisations of the markets in sugar.
It is necessary to reform the sugar market in order bring it in line with CAP reform.
We are disappointed that the report does not support the cross border quota transfer within the EU which would allow sugar producers in Europe to become more efficient and competitive. &#160;&#160; The motion for a resolution before us on the common organisation of the market in sugar was ultimately the result of a compromise which guarantees key national interests pending, in particular, the reduction in the size of the sugar beet market now underway in Portugal.
What is even more serious here is that, if this were not the case, the damage would be felt by an outermost region like the Azores, which is already suffering from various constraints on its economic development. &#160;&#160; My main reservation about the reform of the sugar sector relates principally to the swingeing cut in sugar beet production quotas envisaged in the Commission proposal.
In common with the producers’ associations and some European governments, I believe that a measure of this kind will lead to concentration of sugar beet production in just a few Member States.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; Today, the European Parliament has voted on a resolution subsequent to an oral question put by Mr&#160;Daul and Mr&#160;Fruteau.
I chose to vote against the resolution as a whole since it is mainly oriented towards maintaining the status quo.
This is partly because the present system costs EU taxpayers a lot of money to maintain and partly because today’s high agricultural subsidies involve EU products being dumped on the world market, something that has serious consequences for the developing countries’ ability to export and produce.
The reform of the common organisation of the market in sugar will not only affect European sugar producers, but also producers in certain developing countries whom the current system does not at present entirely place at a disadvantage.
Instead, these countries should be supported through increased development cooperation and technical trade support, derived perhaps from the resources released in connection with the reform of the sugar market.
Finally, it is important for these countries to be given an adequate transitional period in which to adapt to the new situation. &#160;&#160; On behalf of the EPLP I would like to outline why we will not be voting in favour of the Fruteau/Daul resolution.
This resolution follows an oral question from the Agriculture committee, ands aims to give a de facto EP position on sugar ahead of the Commission's legislative proposals.
We need a proper single market in sugar which this resolution does not address.
The EU is concerned about the preservation of the cultural, religious and linguistic identity of the Tibetan people, and more particularly about the restrictive conditions imposed by the central authorities on the exercise of religious freedom in the Tibet Autonomous Region.
We are also still waiting, in spite of continuous requests, for information on the whereabouts of the Dalai Lama’s choice of the eleventh Panchen Lama, Gedhun Choekyi Nyima.
We have done so at the highest political level, for example at the seventh bilateral summit held in the Hague on 8&#160;December&#160;2004, as we have done regularly within the framework of the ongoing bilateral dialogue on human rights.
During the last session of this dialogue, held in Luxembourg on 24/25 February 2005, the issue was again extensively addressed.
The case of Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche has become emblematic.
We fully share the view that the European Parliament expressed in January in a resolution on Tibet and we will continue urging the Chinese authorities to release this monk at the earliest possible date.
We, therefore, fully support the consultations that have taken place over the past years between Beijing and the representatives of the Dalai Lama.
We welcome the fact that the two Special Envoys of the Dalai Lama were able to visit China last September for the third time since the resumption of contacts in September 2002.
We hope that those developments will encourage the start of a meaningful and direct dialogue between Beijing and the Dalai Lama, which will lead to the recognition of genuine autonomy for the Tibetan region.
In our view, the opening of a direct dialogue should not be subject to any precondition.
While 10 March is a day of mourning, it is also a day of resistance to enforced silence, to the violation of human rights, to the suppression of cultural, religious and human identity.
Today, as every year, Tibetan flags are being hoisted all around the world, in 2&#160;000 cities and municipalities in the European Union, over 650 of them in Germany – my own country – alone.
To endorse such a confrontation, even if only indirectly, is a fatal and irreparable error, as we, Commissioner, have pointed out time and time again, calling at the same time for the continuation of dialogue between representatives of the Dalai Lama and the Chinese authorities.
In his message on the occasion of the anniversary of the popular uprising, His Holiness the Dalai Lama declares his determination to find a solution that both takes account of Chinese interests and enables the Tibetan people to live in peace, freedom and dignity.
Our Parliament’s Tibet Intergroup, composed of representatives from all the political families, will continue to campaign for human rights campaigners, NGOs, members of other national parliaments to be heard in this House again and again.
In terms of our solidarity with the Tibetan people and their justified claims, there is no more appropriate day than today, 10&#160;March.
And so, to those of us who join in showing our colours in cities, towns and parliaments, ‘Tashi delek’ – good fortune. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, European policy towards China is based on political dialogue and genuine two-way communication.
It is only thanks to this communication that we can help our Chinese friends in their transition towards an open society and one more respectful of human rights and the rule of law.
The recent case of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche gave us the opportunity to appeal to the Chinese Government to improve the conditions of prisoners.
The European Union has managed to eradicate capital punishment from its territory.
We should like to see an ongoing improvement in the human rights situation in Tibet.
Everyone must be able to express his or her political opinions freely and without the threat of imprisonment.
The European Union/China inter-parliamentary delegation was able to travel to Tibet two years ago.
We looked at European programmes and were able to grasp the importance of our relations with China and with the autonomous province of Tibet.
Tibet needs electricity, running water and hospitals.
Finally, we would encourage China to maintain a dialogue with representatives of the Dalai Lama.
Allow me to recall the annexation of part of Kashmir by China, the war in the Himalayas between China and India and China’s attack on Vietnam in 1979.
Very few events of this kind have taken place over the last 50&#160;years, and they have never gone unpunished.
It is a case of more than mere conquest, as China has taken over every aspect of Tibetan life by force.
Tibetans cannot find work in their own country, as all new jobs are reserved for the Chinese.
The brainwashing process always concludes in the same way.
The outcome has been that some 12&#160;000 Buddhist monks and nuns have been expelled from their communities.
You mentioned, Commissioner, that the Commission will get involved as and when both parties approach you.
As has been quite rightly pointed out, the Tibetans are being denied their most basic political and democratic rights.
The example given by the Commissioner, namely of monks being imprisoned for having portraits of the Dalai Lama, is just one example of how absurd this oppression is.
As is well known, the EU has expressed this view on quite a number of occasions.
Economic interests vie with support for Tibetans’ and other Chinese people’s political and democratic rights.
I am also pleased that the European Commission is dealing with it, and I should like to thank the Commissioner for his statement.
Commissioner, you ventured to suggest that a solution compatible with Chinese sovereignty and respect for the rights of the Tibetan people should be sought.
We can only go as far as agreeing to what the Dalai Lama is prepared to consent to, namely that China could represent Tibet in the international arena.
The people of Tibet have shown quite clearly that they are acting appropriately and building a climate of trust.
The Tibetan people are being persecuted on all three counts, and this persecution must be stopped.
I want to thank you particularly for allowing me to take the floor.
I refer to the Chinese leadership’s undertaking to engage in the dialogue the Commissioner mentioned.
The PPE-DE Group supports the middle-way approach for increased Tibetan autonomy or self-government within a united China that is respectful of cultural, religious and linguistic diversity.
This is exactly what the Dalai Lama has reiterated today to be his approach and that of the Tibetan people.
The Dalai Lama accepts the middle way as the only way forward.
China has made great economic progress in recent decades and it is now a major player on the world stage, which delights us all.
There still is, as Commissioner Kallas said earlier, a problem in certain areas of human rights.
In China, with a population of 1½ billion, the scale of the problem is different, but China has made enormous progress on the economic side.
We want to help the Chinese to preserve Tibet, which has a unique cultural, religious and linguistic heritage.
I say to the Chinese authorities: please preserve it, through the middle way approach, through supporting the autonomous region of Tibet, so that we can all continue to enjoy the heritage of this absolute jewel on the world stage. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like once again to congratulate this Parliament and the Commission on tackling the issue of Tibet.
I believe that this offers us a good opportunity to point out that it is not the Tibetan Government and the Dalai Lama who now have to make a move in favour of Sino-Tibetan dialogue and a lasting and fair solution for the people of Tibet — they have already done so — but rather the Chinese Government in particular.
Within this framework of growing relations with the European Union, I believe that it is important to send a clear message to China that it must respond favourably to the progress in this dialogue and it is therefore very worrying that the possibility of lifting the arms embargo on China is also mentioned.
I would therefore insist that to lift the arms embargo on China today, before the situation in Tibet is resolved, would clearly send the wrong message. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I am very glad that we are having this debate, for this year marks 23 years since this House, here in Strasbourg, adopted the Habsburg Report on the decolonisation of the Baltic states and asked the UN’s decolonisation sub-committee to take up their cause.
The fact that there are, today, Members and Commissioners from the Baltic states sitting in this House should encourage us not to be deterred from our course where Tibet is concerned.
If the Chinese want to go on living together with the Tibetans – a possibility to which the Dalai Lama has referred – then it is they who must take the first and crucial step and gain the trust of the Tibetan people – something they can do only by acknowledging and defending their right of self-determination, their own culture and religion and their rights as human beings.
That is why it makes such an impact that so many former human rights activists – Milan Horáček, who is sitting here, his former fellow-campaigner Václav Havel, many of our Polish Members – are so strong in their support for Tibet, for it is a clear sign that Europe’s freedom and Tibet’s are, in the long run, inseparable one from another, and that freedom is indivisible.
So my thanks go to Mr Thomas Mann and to all the others in our group with primary responsibility for Tibet, for having joined with Members from other groups in securing for us this debate on a current issue before we move on to matters of urgent importance.
Along with the rest of Estonia, I am very familiar with the history of Tibet, and with the events of 1959 in particular.
We have had consultations with representatives of the Dalai Lama and know that there have been consultations between his representatives and the Chinese authorities.
I am convinced that the European Parliament and the European Commission will again prove powerful driving forces for such pressure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I beg permission to raise a matter concerning human rights.
The human rights problems in Tibet, Belarus and so on are hard to comprehend.
However, that does not mean that we do not have problems in our own countries.
Last week a family with five special needs children had their children taken from them.
That family’s case had been reported in the national media, exposing the lack of services for their own children and children in general.
The five children involved were supposed to be returned to their parents on Monday, but have not been as yet.
I appeal to the House to talk to the Irish Government about its treatment of people with disabilities and their families. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on Belarus(1). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we have a very tough resolution against Belarus before us, but it unfortunately also reflects the grim reality.
Belarus is now a country that is becoming ever more isolated in Europe.
That is why it is all the more important to show that this policy of isolating Belarus is aimed at those in power in the country and not at the Belarussian people.
What we need now is more contact with the civil organisations in Belarus, the democratic opposition, independent media and the free trade unions that are still fighting against the authoritarian government headed by President Lukashenko.
We are responding to the struggle by the Belarussian democrat Mihail Marynich for human rights, by adopting a resolution demanding his immediate and unconditional release as well as that of other political prisoners — that is our responsibility.
Responding to the struggle of the journalists of Belarus for the truth, in our statement we strongly condemn attacks by the Lukashenko regime on the media, journalists and any person who freely expresses their opinion — that is our responsibility.
We are responding to the Belarusian people’s fight for the right to belong to the new democratic world by condemning the dictatorial Lukashenko regime — that is our responsibility.
Europe must promote the process of shaping civil society in Belarus, where society is not as inert as is at times thought in Europe.
I call on the European Parliament and the Council to acknowledge that the current Belarusian regime is a dictatorship and that President Lukashenko is a dictator, and to condemn them.
He recently stated that Belarus ought not to send young people to be educated and study in the West, because anything they learnt there would be of no use back in their home country, especially in view of the political situation in Belarus.
It is therefore crucially important for us to send out a strong signal on this matter.
Of course, none of us can remain indifferent in the face of events in the Middle East, including the major changes in Lebanon, where people are also demanding the right to freedom and democracy.
We very recently had an opportunity here in Parliament to hear the new President of Ukraine drawing attention to the new reality and the major transformation that has taken place in his country.
I therefore believe that, politically speaking, Belarus has become one of the greatest problems we face within Europe, and in view of the gravity of this situation I believe that we should strengthen our support for civil society in that country in every possible way, and that we should also step up existing sanctions as far as possible.
The dialogue between the European Union and Russia has assumed particular importance in this context.
As we know, one of the most important problems to be discussed as part of this dialogue is conditions in the neighbouring countries which lie between the European Union and Russia, and, as our resolution states very clearly, it is a matter of regret that this point – covered in paragraph 21 of our resolution – has not been taken up by the Commission.
I have to say that my country’s history was equally bitter.
In more recent history, the world largely forgot about the whole area of Europe that found itself under a Communist yoke after the 1945 Yalta Conference.
Then came 1989, the fall of the Communist regime in Poland, followed by the fall of the Berlin Wall.
I should remind the House that the fall of Communism in Poland preceded the fall of the Berlin Wall.
It is important to realise that whilst combating his people, Mr&#160;Lukaschenko is also combating their culture and religion, notably the Catholic religion.
That is precisely the situation in which it is possible for political detainees such as Mikhail Marinitch, Valeri Levonevski and Alexander Vassiliev, as well as Yauhien Afnagel and Professor Yuri Bandashevsky, to cite two topical examples, to have their personal freedoms curtailed.
This is something we have to bring to people’s attention, and, here and now, I call on the Council – in its absence – and the Commission to summon the Belarussian ambassadors and give them a political message demanding the immediate release of these political detainees and making it plain that we will not tolerate further detentions on the grounds of the free expression of opinion.
In the same breath, let me reiterate my call to the Commission and the Council to also do something about the disappeared persons and press on with the work that the Council of Europe has begun.
They must set in motion an international inquiry that will at last give the people of Belarus hope when the international community no longer keeps silent in the face of the massive violations of human rights in Belarus. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when I say 'Belarus' you might react with the all too familiar 'last dictatorship in Europe'.
Allow me, however, not to talk directly about human rights abuses in Belarus, but to raise the issue of the European Union's assistance to civil society in that country.
In spite of the Council of Ministers' resolution of November 2004 and the detailed EU action plan for promoting democracy in Belarus, the European Commission insists on using the existing mechanism for support to civil society in Belarus.
Rarely do black-and-white situations arise in the international arena or indeed in internal politics.
The situation in Belarus is like a black-and-white film.
The country deserves a better future.
The European Parliament has remembered the political prisoners and the disappeared in Belarus, the closed-down newspapers and educational establishments, whilst emphasising that freedom is indivisible and that freedom does not require a visa from Mr Lukaschenko.
In conclusion, I should like to say that as the House defends the cause of Belarus today, it is also defending European solidarity and honour.
Such is not the case; here in the European Parliament, we are giving human rights in Belarus massive backing, awarding the Sakharov Prize to its citizens, holding debates on a regular basis, and really getting stuck in.
The EU’s goal is to have close relations with all of our neighbours, including Belarus.
The seriously flawed conduct of the parliamentary elections and the referendum in October 2004, show how far Belarus is lagging behind in terms of democratic development.
In November 2004, following the elections in Belarus, EU foreign ministers adopted conclusions setting out a clear EU policy.
We confirmed the restrictions on ministerial-level contacts with Belarussian authorities, but at the same time sent a clear message to the population that they are not forgotten and that we are trying to support civil society and democratic forces in Belarus.
We are closely monitoring the human rights situation in the country and, as a result, the EU imposed a visa ban last year on certain high-ranking Belarussian officials, on the basis of the findings of the Council of Europe’s Pourgourides report on politically motivated disappearances.
The Commission is playing the lead role in coordinating and delivering EU assistance in support of civil society and democratisation in Belarus.
A conference will be held in Vilnius next week on that very important subject.
In difficult situations such as that of Belarus, where a country is isolating itself from the world, this is particularly difficult and we are working on the appropriate division of labour between the Community Member States and other donors.
We very much welcome the role that the European Parliament can play in encouraging democratic changes and supporting democratic forces in Belarus.
We are currently carefully examining the action plan which your Delegation for Relations with Belarus has prepared, to see how this can mesh with our own efforts in that regard.
The first was whether Belarus was discussed at high-level meetings between the EU and Russia.
The Commission is ready to examine all possible ways of supporting Belarussian civil society financially so that the funds can be used efficiently. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place this afternoon following the debates. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on Cambodia(1). &#160;&#160; Mr President, there has, for over thirty-five years, been a great deal of poison in Cambodian politics.
Criticism and condemnation are desperately needed, but also the lesson that things could have been done better than the outside world have demonstrated to the Cambodians in the past. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, we as parliamentarians can easily understand the horror and the violence described in relation to the motion for a resolution before us today.
Three of our fellow parliamentarians, Sam Rainsy, Cheam Channy and Chea Poch were subjected to loss of immunity in a particularly brutal way, by means of a show of hands, in a parliamentary session – if it can be called that – held behind closed doors, hidden from the public gaze and without any formal record of the proceedings.
One of the targets of this action, Mr&#160;Sam Rainsy, the leader of his party in fact, had two days earlier written an article in the Cambodia Daily clearly describing the gravity of the situation in his country.
It is not the first time that we have had to highlight the serious nature of the situation in Cambodia, and we should call on the Commission, the Council and on the Member States to be particularly clear about this at the forthcoming meeting on 10 and 11&#160;March.
A delegation from Parliament will be present at that meeting.
It will be incumbent on us to follow all the debates very carefully, because the report of the UN special envoy, Mr&#160;Peter Leuprecht, also denounces the very grave situation in that country in the clearest terms.
The attitude of the regime is hardening and human rights violations are on the increase.
Mr Sam Rainsy – Sam being, as you know, his surname and Rainsy his first name – and his wife are very good friends of mine, and so I have first-hand experience of the difficulty of the battle that is being fought.
This is to give you an idea of that country’s power mechanism.
What we should not forget either is that despite all fine promises, the Cambodian Government – Mr Hun Sen having, as you know, again become Prime Minister – has not actually made a serious start on bringing to justice those who are most responsible for the mass destruction, the genocide that was committed by the Khmer Rouge, and nor does it seem likely that they will do so in the short term.
It therefore goes without saying that we are concerned about the fate of our colleagues, which other members of the opposition could also suffer.
I would, however, urge you not to lose sight of the fact that the European Union is Cambodia’s largest donor and that fact alone means that we definitely have levers at our disposal to persuade this awful regime to make changes for the better. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Cambodia is indeed a source of concern.
The first point which I would like to stress today concerns the withdrawal of parliamentary immunity from three members of the Sam Rainsy party.
Next there are Chea Po and Sam Rainsy himself, who have both fled Cambodia in order to be able to speak out more effectively on the situation in that country.
It is inconceivable that, according to the United Nations development programmes, over the last ten years the country should have seen deterioration in three of the key development benchmarks, namely the number of persons living below the poverty line, the adult illiteracy rate and the rate of infant mortality.
The Cambodian Government should indicate its good intentions in terms of the effectiveness of measures taken and implemented in the country’s interests and should explain, in particular, the purpose to which European aid has been directed. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by withdrawing parliamentary immunity from three opposition members of parliament – including our friend Sam Rainsy, whom a number of us have met – who had drawn attention to what was currently happening in Cambodia and had denounced the gangrene of corruption in their country, Cambodia has once again shown itself to be a very inadequate democracy indeed, in which autocracy imposes an arbitrary governance on political, social and economic life.
We must bear in mind, as our colleague has just pointed out – and it is important that people are aware of this – that, despite the five billion dollars in international aid received during the last ten years, Cambodia is nonetheless the only country in the world where illiteracy, infant mortality and the number of people living below the poverty line are still on the increase.
As the UN and World Bank have emphasised, those exercising political power are misappropriating international aid, the country’s resources, leaving the Cambodian people in a state of abject poverty.
It is time that the European Union began supporting those really engaged in the fight against corruption and striving to establish the rule of law and compliance with democratic principles, by, for example, making aid conditional upon respect for democracy, human rights and the environment.
Let me say that Sam Rainsy’s visit a fortnight ago was entirely in the tradition of the visits made by the campaigner for freedom Son San, and that Sam Rainsy deserves our wholehearted support, for without a functioning parliament, all the efforts undertaken in Cambodia by the UN and the international community will have been in vain.
In the past year, the situation in Cambodia has taken a dramatic turn for the worse, the latest low point being the witch hunt against three members of the opposition, including the brave Sam Rainsy who was here two weeks ago.
Good though it was to see him here, it would have been better if he had not been here and had simply been able to fulfil his opposition role in Phnom Penh.
In my view, the time for compromise is over.
The House was recently moved to debate violations of human rights in Cambodia along with the unacceptable treatment of women and children that constituted an affront to their human dignity.
The group in power was elected in so-called free elections.
It has no concept of a state, and is either unable to engage in dialogue with the opposition or does not wish to do so.
Twenty people died during the first local elections alone, and those in power did not allow the opposition access to the media.
We also support the European Parliament’s resolution.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the people of Cambodia have suffered extensively for many decades from the catastrophic effects of a totalitarian government and high-level official corruption.
They include the three opposition leaders, Sam Rainsy, Chea Poch and Cheam Channy, whose parliamentary immunity was recently lifted for obvious political reasons and using dubious and groundless proceedings.
In passing this resolution we, the representatives of the European people, want to convey a strong and clear message to the autocratic rulers in Phnom Penh and to those who support them that the friends of Cambodia will not turn a blind eye to the ongoing attempts to eliminate the democratic opposition in that country.
They will continue to support wholeheartedly those pluralistic political forces that are fighting for reform, democracy, freedom of expression and social justice. &#160;&#160; The Commission has been following with concern the events relating to the lifting on 3 February of the parliamentary immunity of Mr Sam Rainsy, the leader of the Cambodian opposition Sam Rainsy Party, and two other members of the National Assembly.
The Commission strongly supported the issuing of an EU declaration on the subject and I can inform you that the EU declaration was brought to the personal attention of the Prime Minister by the local representative of the EU presidency.
The Commission is raising its concern over these issues in its political dialogue with Cambodian authorities, for instance at the EC-Cambodia Joint Committee meeting to be held later this year.
I can also assure you that, in all its co-operation activities in Cambodia, the Commission attaches the greatest importance to democracy, good governance and respect for human rights.
At the same time, I would like to assure this House that the Commission will continue to follow these events closely, through its delegation in Phnom Penh and with the missions of EU Member States in Cambodia. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place this afternoon following the debates. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on Saudi Arabia(1). &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is good that we should have today a joint resolution focussing attention on the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia.
It was as recently as the 1970s that Saudi Arabia held its first local elections, in which women were denied the vote – and, as I was able to see for myself when our Gulf States delegation went to the local elections in Riyadh at the beginning of February, they still are.
The situation of non-Saudi workers in Saudi Arabia is a fundamental issue, and one that this House really will have to debate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the first ever nation-wide electoral process in the history of Saudi Arabia is under way, with the local elections in Riyadh completed last month and continuing in the rest of the country until April.
The authorities have declared that women will be entitled to vote in the future.
I know that centuries of cultural and religious practice separate the EU and Saudi Arabia.
I am particularly concerned here as a woman and a public representative of a small country that up to 30 years ago had prohibitions on women's rights in many areas; women were not even allowed to work once they got married.
We do not always get it right in our part of the world, but let us look at the women's issue in Saudi Arabia and move ahead on that together. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, a country that in the 21st century does not allow women to exercise their voting rights, surely cannot be included on the list of the world's democracies.
A country that in the 21st century treats women socially and politically the way that Saudi Arabia does, unquestionably cannot be regarded as a civilised nation.
Such a country should have been subjected to the most fierce international pressure and total isolation until drastic reforms were urgently brought about.
At the same time, we continue through lucrative trade and defence contracts – some Member States more than others – to fully support the dictatorial regime in power in Saudi Arabia.
It is shameful. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the visit to Riyadh and Jeddah by the Delegation for relations with the Gulf States was extremely useful, both in terms of increased collaboration between the European Parliament and countries such as Saudi Arabia, which are vital for Middle East stability, and in terms of improved understanding between different cultures and religions.
We were in the Saudi capital during the week of the first elections, which were only held on a municipal level but which represented a first small step towards the necessary political and social reforms.
We reminded all our contacts that it was unacceptable to deny women the right to vote.
Women today represent a vital driving force in the development of the much-hoped-for democratic institutions.
It is obvious that much still has to be done in terms of respect for the rights of women and for civil and, above all, human rights in general, including those of the numerous foreign workers operating in the country.
Everyone we met emphasised the Saudi commitment to the fight against terrorism and religious fundamentalism, which, as we know, has found a disturbingly fertile breeding-ground in the country.
In particular, we need to give joint support for efforts to eliminate the causes of terrorism and put an end to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
I believe it is vital to intensify contacts on all fronts, particularly in this sensitive transitional phase.
One final point to bear in mind is that even the most reformist of the Saudis are asking us in the West not to impose our model of society and democracy and to give them the necessary time to take action, even if this does not always match our expectations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the municipal elections in Saudi Arabia do indeed represent a significant step forward in terms of the political reforms that country is undertaking; we should acknowledge this just as it is acknowledged in the resolution we are presenting today.
Women suffer incomprehensible and unacceptable restrictions in terms of freedom of movement — they are not even allowed to drive — work opportunities, legal personality and legal representation in judicial processes.
If Saudi Arabia wants to be recognised internationally as a modern state that respects human rights, it must, as a minimum, respect the rights laid down in the Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, to which — I would remind you — Saudi Arabia is a contracting party.
In particular, Article 7 of that Convention states that the contracting parties must take all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against women in the political and public life of the country, and in particular they must guarantee women’s right to vote in all elections and to be elected, and also to participate in the creation of State policy and its implementation.
It is important to maintain good relations with Saudi Arabia, and this offers an opportunity for both parties to contribute to greater understanding between peoples and cultures.
The credibility of the European Union is once again at stake. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, it is impossible to avoid feeling a mixture of both encouragement and regret following the first local elections in Saudi Arabia.
Encouragement, because these elections are a first significant step towards the political democratisation of that country.
Although this election was based on universal suffrage, women were deprived of this right in Saudi Arabia, just as they are deprived of other rights, such as the right to drive.
In the age of the Internet and satellites, no society can remain cut off and unaware of the need to respect the universal dignity of both men and women.
Without, naturally, wishing to give lessons in democracy, there is still much that has to be said about the situation in Saudi Arabia in terms of respect for religious freedom or the huge challenges represented by the fight against terrorism in the region.
The Commission shares Parliament’s view on the need to promote a substantial strengthening of EU-Saudi relations.
In June 2004, the European Council adopted an EU Strategic Partnership for the Mediterranean and the Middle East.
That document reflected EU political will to intensify efforts to resolve conflicts, ease tension, build trust, strengthen governance and improve the lives of the people living on the shores of the Mediterranean and in the Middle East, and not least to address the situation faced by women in some of these countries.
Our current EU-Gulf Cooperation Council Agreement and our future Free Trade Area Agreement - which will include human rights as an essential element - will remain the framework for our cooperation.
The European Union’s determination to promote both stability and change throughout the region is at the core of this process.
For example, the EU should encourage the Saudi Government to accelerate the pace of reforms that contribute towards women’s empowerment.
