You know that putting in place the services corresponding to a 116 number remains the responsibility of Member States.
Legal measures have been taken by 17 Member States.
There have been calls for candidates for the management of the hotline numbers in 12 Member States, and only four Member States have so far chosen service providers: Belgium, Denmark, Greece and Portugal.
So I am not at all satisfied at the state of play in implementation of the decision taken in February 2007.
We support Member States in putting similar mechanisms in place nationally.
The feasibility study and implementation phase are funded by the AGIS programme and, since September 2005, this database used by Interpol is funded mainly by G8 governments and private companies.
So far this database has made it possible to locate and arrest several criminals in Europe and outside Europe, most recently a very well-known paedophile in Thailand, and save victims. - (ES) Madam President, thank you very much for enabling us to be face to face with the Commissioner, whom I have already asked many questions on similar matters.
I know that the Commissioner has always been ambitious, but I also invite him to be ambitious in this area, as it is a distressing matter for parents and for society in general, because children are the most precious thing that we have.
The idea of a single telephone number in Europe for urgent calls should have been specifically implemented by each Member State by the end of September.
This is now the end of October, and only four Member States have a functioning system; the other 17 have adopted initiatives but are still lagging behind.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Yes, you are right.
Vice-President of the Commission. - I have already said that I am not at all satisfied with the level of implementation and, so far, only four Member States have implemented this decision.
This decision now has to be implemented by all the Member States.
The fact that only four Member States so far are implementing a decision unanimously taken in February 2007 shows that we have to do much more.
The next question is on the tropical virus chikungunya in Europe.
The system is in place and we can use it of course, and it has been used, but we will of course adapt it and adjust it to be able to deal with this form of health threat as well.
However, if the situation persists, my services are ready to adopt a new donor-deferral rule for this disease as well.
However, in this case we seem to have a virus that can be identified by serologic and other methods, and a serum or vaccine against it could now be developed.
If the virus happened to spread, such a serum or vaccine would be an effective treatment against the chikungunya virus and perhaps also against an even worse infection: dengue fever.
The health strategy that we adopted today in the Commission will be sent to Parliament to be discussed with you as well.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission is fully aware of the scale of the humanitarian needs inside Iraq and its neighbouring countries.
As for Syria, I am not a party to the talks that the Commission has been holding with Syria, but I have often spoken with the Syrian authorities: the fact is that they already have perhaps 2 million more inhabitants.
The Iraqi Government has repeatedly declared it will allocate USD 25 million to assist Iraqi refugees.
We therefore have to ask the Iraqi Government to assume at least its financial responsibility for its own citizens.
The Commission understands Turkey's need to protect its citizens but we continue to urge Turkey and Iraq to tackle the problem through cooperation between the relevant authorities and by respecting international law.
In this context, the recent bilateral agreement between Turkey and Iraq on the fight against terrorism is a welcome step.
As many of our Member States know well, it is very difficult to tackle terrorists effectively.
The situation for contract agents is different.
Such contract agents can be offered permanent contracts so their tasks can be considered as permanent in nature.
In some cases a permanent contract can be offered directly upon recruitment.
There are currently around 2 300 such contract agents working for the Commission around the world, mainly in delegations, representations and administrative offices.
At the start of this year, following the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, more than 700 officials were recruited with the task of strengthening the internal market.
First of all, it should be mentioned that the 2007 budget provides for 23 198 posts for the Commission.
On the other hand, the honourable Member might be aware that, during the 2007 budgetary procedure, the European Parliament asked the Commission to carry out a substantive screening exercise providing a mid-term evaluation of its staff needs and a detailed report on the Commission's staffing for support and coordination functions.
The Commission commits to meet new staffing needs in key policy areas exclusively through redeployment within and between departments.
In the budget pension costs were expected to increase by 10% in 2008.
A 16% increase in the number of officials for some years, as in the EU, would never be authorised; nor would an increase in pension costs of more than 10% in one year.
Concerning the average open competition or 'concours', there are approximately 42 serious applicants - not to mention other applicants - to each published post.
We are discussing these issues.
In the case of the Commission, on the basis of the resources agreement of 2001 and annual resources protocols, 12 so-called secondment posts are granted to the trade unions on a permanent basis out of a total of more than 23 000 posts at the Commission.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FI) I can, in fact, answer the question from my own knowledge of the situation.
There are 12 seconded experts in the Commission's trade union.
In addition, there are 19 positions on the staff committees, which are of course separate bodies.
Member of the Commission. - Since the beginning of its current term and up to the end of September 2007, the Commission has adopted 21 decisions imposing fines on companies that have infringed the anti-trust rules.
Such use would run counter to the budgetary principle of universality as set out in Articles 17 to 20 of the current Financial Regulation.
Member of the Commission. - (NL) The answer to the first part of the question is a resounding 'yes': it returns to the Member States.
Food prices are increasing simultaneously in all countries without there being any increase in raw material prices.
The national competition authorities have too, and I am aware that all the 27 national competition authorities are involved in this struggle with us.
Member of the Commission. - (NL) The answer to both questions is 'yes'.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission will analyse the planned subsidy to Volvo Cars in Ghent directly on the basis of the EC Treaty, since the matter exceeds the EUR 1 million ceiling laid down in the specific block exemption regulation on training aid.
Article 87 of the Treaty provides that aid to facilitate the development of certain economic activities, and which does not unduly distort competition, may be considered compatible with the common market.
That is the case where the training goes beyond what is normally done in the sector concerned; for instance, because more workers are trained or because the training is more extensive.
The proposed eight measures for Volvo Cars Ghent relate to the introduction of a new production platform.
The Commission cannot, at this stage, exclude that the training concerned would take place in any case and therefore would not contribute to increasing the pool of skilled workers in the EU.
You have the right end of the stick when you say that we have to be very alert when carrying out the review of the State aid guidelines, as it should indeed be possible to permit this for training that contributes to widening the scope of European workers.
It is not a trade issue first and foremost, but there are areas where trade can help.
Trade policy can support climate change objectives by minimising those costs and generating part of the finance required and by fostering regulatory frameworks that support investment and trade in low-carbon goods, services and technology. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner Mandelson certainly seems to respect the time limit for questions.
Member of the Commission. - We are indeed looking at all these aspects.
It is not unusual that the number of initiations varies from one year to another, depending on factors such as the business cycle, over-capacity in third countries and diversion of trade as a result of trade defence measures in other world markets.
In 2003, for example, the Commission initiated in total only eight new investigations, the first of which was initiated at the end of May in that year.
Also, the first semester of 2007 followed a period of exceptionally high activity at the end of 2006.
Finally, I would draw your attention to the fact that in September 2007 two new anti-dumping investigations were initiated against imports from China: one for citric acid and another for monosodium glutamate. (DE) Commissioner, thank you very much for your comments.
Either there is no evaluation yet, in which case you would have released your paper without an evaluation, or there is an evaluation - I assume that there is - in which case it is high time that it was presented to the public and to Parliament.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission has undertaken a preliminary assessment of the responses to the Green Paper, and that provided the basis for our orientation discussion on the subject today.
Member of the Commission. - I am not quite sure what the honourable Member means by the 'liberalisation of our trade policy'.
If there was no need for a review, then I think that the Green Paper that we issued would have received far fewer than the 500 responses that came in.
