rapporteur. - Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to my report - I am very grateful for their help.
EU laws are transposed into national law by national governments and parliaments and are often applied at regional and local level.
One common rule to apply in all Member States is much simpler and more efficient than a complex web of varying rules at national and regional level.
The experience of Member States demonstrates that public authorities can do a lot to reduce unwarranted administrative burdens of legislation.
It is a good thing that we take time in Parliament to consider the quality of legislation and regulations at least once a year.
It must not become a procession, of course; it must not be a kind of pseudo-parliament, but a small committee of experts: so no captains of industry, no civil servants, no politicians, but ordinary professional people who know what an impact assessment is, who know what red tape is and who have plenty of experience in this area in their national contexts.
The Commission has set a clear target: administrative burdens must be reduced by 25% by 2012.
This means that a reduction of 25% from now should, in fact, be achieved and that new administrative burdens should be included in the calculation and deducted from the result, otherwise it will just be a waste of time.
Compliance costs are the costs that companies and citizens are forced to incur in order to comply with legislation and they are extremely high.
The working document has been approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has taken stock of progress achieved in implementing the simplification programme introduced, as I said, in 2005.
In particular, the programme will include 43 recasts, and I would like to give the House the following figures: 12 codifications, 8 repeals and 46 other measures relating to substantive simplification.
Obviously the Commission has a major role to play in the application of European law as the guarantor of application of the Treaties, but it must do this in conjunction with the legislative bodies, and it certainly cannot replace the legislative powers conferred by the Treaties on Parliament and the Council.
The open method of coordination may be an extremely effective instrument in achieving the objectives of the Treaty, but it may only establish obligations among participating parties.
Thus we cannot merely say 'we intend to use the open method of coordination' because it is an effective instrument for achieving EU objectives.
It is not an effective instrument because the European Union can only operate as a legal system.
That must be expressed in all our practical decisions in every area of policy, whether it be in chemicals law, in the pharmaceuticals industry, in information technology or in agriculture.
We have completely overhauled our policy style and the way in which we prepare and review legislation.
Our simplification programme will be continued in 2007 and 2008 as well and we will be unveiling a range of new initiatives here.
Half of the initiatives envisaged in the simplification programme have already been successfully completed, and we will pursue this work intensively until 2009.
This will lead to direct and tangible benefits for companies, public authorities and individuals.
The target - as has already been stated - is to reduce these costs by 25% by the year 2012.
I hope that the Member States will set equally ambitious goals before the end of this year, for this project can only be successful if it is pursued jointly at European and national level.
The Commission is extremely grateful, as I am, to the European Parliament for its broad support, expressed in the reports we are debating today.
We had already agreed on this in November 2005 in common interinstitutional approaches.
Draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - Madam President, first of all I should like to thank the rapporteur on better regulation in the European Union, Mrs Lévai, and the Committee on Legal Affairs, for accepting a number of the proposals made by my Committee, which is very much appreciated.
We would also hope that the Commission will come back to the idea of giving citizens the right of action when Member States do go in for gold-plating.
I would like to point out, first of all, that there was agreement within our committee that soft law - or whatever we want to call these measures which are now being applied increasingly frequently in European law but also in national legislation - has become a very common practice which offers the opportunity to respond flexibly and therefore swiftly to new developments, which is why it should not be criticised per se.
The debate, after all, not only focuses on soft law but also on other benchmarks for better law-making, and I believe that in many areas, we certainly have not made as much progress as citizens now assume from the media, which is why all the institutions involved - Parliament, the Council and the Commission - have a responsibility to make faster progress in this area.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, I wish to begin by making three statements to set the context of this debate.
Finally, the most important thing is that the European Union is itself a simplification process, because by having one set of rules instead of 27 we have cut business costs enormously in comparison to what life was like before many European Union laws were passed.
It is important that all the institutions realise their role in this.
It is all very well for Parliament or the Council to pontificate about better regulation, so long as, when it comes to amendments, we ourselves look at the impact of those amendments.
It is very important that Parliament pays a great deal of attention to this issue and I entirely share the view of the Commissioner that many citizens in Europe have the impression that all bad laws come out of Brussels.
The text in the budget that has meanwhile been approved by the Council and Parliament should be the guide for the Commission to take further action.
We support the target of a 25% reduction in administrative burdens and naturally - and the Commissioner and Mr Doorn have also confirmed this already - laws that we have just repealed must not be allowed to come back in through the back door as new legislation.
It is important that we review all legislation before 2013 to see whether it is redundant or not.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, in taking the floor on behalf of the UEN Group in this debate on better law-making in the European Union, I should like to draw attention to the following issues.
At the same time, the terminology should be precise and legal certainty ensured, so that the Union's legislation can be understood by its citizens, who now number almost 500 million.
Thirdly, the decision taken at the 2007 Spring Council to achieve a 25% reduction of the administrative burden resulting from Union legislation by 2012 should be warmly welcomed.
Mr Doorn is well aware that I and my Group have doubts about the idea of concentrating all our attention on subsidiarity and proportionality, that is, on the initial topic of his report, and on administrative costs.
In that regard, however, I believe that it is necessary to strengthen the role of the European Parliament in the legislative process.
What I have in mind here is that Parliament should have the same law-making initiative as the Commission, which would undoubtedly have a positive effect on the process of simplifying and improving the quality of the legal environment in Europe.
The schedule of simplification for the years 2006-2009 provides for 43 revisions, 12 codifications, 26 other measures and 8 repeals.
But at the same time 500 new legislative initiatives are expected in the area of codifications alone.
This makes me think that the Commission's plans for reduction in the secondary Community legislation are not realistic.
The aim must be a federal Europe of subsidiarity, a Europe in which democracy, the rule of law and transparency prevail, a Europe with which the citizens can finally identify once again. (SK) Firstly, I would like to focus on the need for codification.
There is a problem here and it relates to the links between these acts and the national legislative acts.
Even if citizens of the European Union look up a given law, they often have no idea that there are other EU acts fundamentally linked to it.
The solution to one problem should not be provided in several Community acts since this makes the situation less clear.
As a result, by the time it leaves the European Parliament an amended legislative act can often be almost twice the size of the European Commission text; this does not make things any simpler or any clearer.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my Group, I would like to make just three comments on points of principle.
However, another key point based on our experience in the Committee on Legal Affairs is that impact assessments are not actually being carried out as standard on every Commission proposal.
Indeed, in the Committee on Legal Affairs we increasingly have the impression that the European Commission is misusing the instrument of soft law in order to circumvent Parliament's codecision rights.
The Commission's communication of 14 November 2006 on a strategic review of better regulation in the European Union, together with the stated objective of achieving a 25% reduction of the administrative burden by 2012, represent a key first step on the way to resolving the problem at both European and national level.
In this connection, it is particularly important to set up a special Council to deal with impact assessment and strengthen implementation of Community legislation through preventive actions undertaken by Member States from the earliest stages of implementation of Community legislation.
As part of the ongoing work on better legislation it is crucial for the European Parliament both to become involved in the interinstitutional debate, and also to act as co-legislator in the adoption of the legal acts derived from such a process.
I should like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on excellent reports.
It must not be used instead of legal acts in areas for which the Community has legislative powers.
The success of better regulation will depend very largely on the European Commission, working in cooperation with Parliament and the Council.
After all, that report states that the Commission's action programme to reduce administrative burdens by 25% by 2012 'cannot [...] be equated to a deregulation, nor lead to a change in the policy objectives and level of ambition contained in Community legislation'.
The EU's regulatory system is making us all poorer and damaging our competitiveness in the face of globalisation.
As I have stressed in one of my adopted amendments, the Commission should make a special effort to guarantee transparency, visibility and public accountability in the procedure for approving non-binding Community acts, and guarantee increased use of impact assessment in the decision-making process. (RO) Madam President, Commissioner, the Spring European Council proposed to reduce Community and national bureaucracy by 25% by 2012.
Member States should develop a plan for quantifying and reducing administrative costs, by avoiding overregulation in transposing Community legislation into national law.
The future European Treaty will enable European Union citizens, by means of the national parliaments, to exercise scrutiny over observance of the principle of subsidiarity within the context of legislative proposals. (PL) Madam President, dura lex, sed lex is a Latin maxim that most lawyers are probably very familiar with.
It translates as hard law but law nonetheless.
It is an expression of political declarations, resolutions, Council declarations, Presidency conclusions, but such provisions are not binding.
I agree with the rapporteur that the only way to guarantee the possibility of applying and implementing the law is by adopting provisions in the framework of institutional procedures laid down in the Treaty. (SV) Madam President, as the basis for cooperation within the EU the Member States have signed several treaties laying down the basic rules governing what the EU is and what the EU must do.
Community law is binding only in areas where the Member States themselves have delegated decision-making rights to the Community. (PL) Madam President, I welcomed the fact that, for the first time, initiatives concerning simplification of legislation have been included in the Commission's work and legislative programme for the current year.
A better regulatory environment and clear and effective legislation are essential conditions for ensuring better implementation of the law.
It should not be used as a substitute for desirable but unadopted legislation.
An effective system of assessment of the impact of legal acts is a sine qua non for ensuring high quality and effective Community or national legislation.
It should, however, be borne in mind that better law-making includes all aspects of the legislative process, from the initial concept through to its introduction and implementation.
Accordingly, when discussing better regulation we should also consider every level of administration.
Accordingly, both the European Union and the Member States should launch an ambitious strategy to reduce administrative burdens, bearing in mind that such burdens arise out of both European and national legislation.
Clearly, these are four very important reports that we have been discussing on better law-making.
First of all, soft law, as many of my colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs have already said, has a propensity to bypass the legislator, to bypass Parliament, to bypass democracy - and that is entirely unacceptable.
The aim is only ever to achieve the objectives which you - the European Parliament - regard as politically necessary, but to do so by simpler, more up-to-date and cheaper means.
There seems to be a great deal of confusion surrounding the statistics.
The Commission is currently working on 143 simplification initiatives of which around half have already been adopted; 67 initiatives have already been adopted.
So if we say that we have 143 simplification initiatives, this means that several thousand acts are affected.
It is quite clear, after all, that after around 50 years of European integration, this has to be done.
I assume that he is not here, but I would like to make that clear once and for all.
In Europe we had 1 400 different pieces of technical legislation on wireless systems in 27 countries.
That means that a company in the United Kingdom which produced specific wireless systems had to be familiar with 1 400 items of national legislation.
In line with the Commission's proposal, this Parliament adopted legislation which simplified these 1 400 provisions and turned them into one single item of legislation.
With the proposal, we have supplied you with the 10 fast-track actions to show you that, technically speaking, it is fairly straightforward.
This is the be-all and end-all and the Commission's rule is this: no new proposal without a comprehensive impact assessment, and no new proposal without an impact assessment which has been scrutinised by the Impact Assessment Board.
If this rule is occasionally infringed, the European Parliament has the absolute right, in my view - indeed, if not a duty - to draw critical attention to it.
The most important point which has been made several times in this debate is something which I fully endorse: all this can only be successful if it is a community project.
