This means ensuring that the Member States can resort to Article 30 of the TRIPS agreement in their national laws on patents, in order to authorise production and exporting, to tackle the public health needs in importing member countries.
This is a far-reaching political and humanitarian problem that requires a genuine political will to match the challenge posed.
Defending to the bitter end a mechanism such as that of 30 August 2003, reproduced word for word in the amendment to the TRIPS agreements that the EU would like to ratify, signifies a very clear choice of sides: it means siding with the large pharmaceutical multinationals and abandoning millions of patients in poor countries to the mercy of diseases that, in their case, are fatal, such as AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and dozens of other forgotten illnesses, without research or treatment.
Today, 12 million people per year die due to lack of medicine, above all that designed to combat tropical diseases.
President-in-Office of the Council. (PT) Madam President, honourable Members, on 6 December 2006, the Council sought Parliament's approval, under Articles 133 and 300 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, for the Commission proposal for a Council decision relating to the acceptance, on behalf of the European Community, of the protocol amending the TRIPS agreement, signed in Geneva on 6 December 2005.
In developing and negotiating the aforementioned protocol, which will result in citizens of developing countries having increased access to drugs at affordable prices, the Community, from a political point of view, played a key role.
The fact that that forum on standards in international trade addressed an issue of such importance for developing countries, constitutes a concrete application of the principles of consistency in the development policies set out in the European Council, agreed in 2005 between Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
As far as both technical and wider-ranging questions raised by the honourable Members are concerned, it is not the Council's responsibility to assess the technical effectiveness of the mechanism, created by the WTO's decision of 30 August 2003.
First, the mechanism created by the WTO decision of August 2003 and the Protocol to the TRIPS Agreement is the result of long and difficult negotiations between almost 150 countries.
It is ahead of its time because the extension of patent regimes to cover drugs in India and other countries in 2005 has not yet bitten.
All the groups are putting this question to you concerning a regulation that has been in force for three years but not once implemented; are you replying that this regulation will allow developing countries access to medicines?
Madam President, the Commission and Council are right to remind us that the 2003 waiver was greeted in this House as a great breakthrough in terms of access to medicine, but I think we are right as a Parliament to remind the other two institutions that four years later, not a single drug has been supplied to a single patient.
The four points that Commissioner Rehn made were all very valid and welcome, but he has to go beyond those four points and make it clear that he will give the backing that the developing countries need to access medicines today, not in 10 or 20 years time. (NL) Madam President, thanks to my report of December 2005, a compromise has been reached at first reading on a regulation which guarantees the uniform application in the EU of the WTO Decision of 30 August 2003.
Moreover, during the period of implementation of the Sixth Framework Programme for Research, EU support for R[amp]D devoted to poverty related diseases amounted to more than EUR 455 million.
For the same period an additional EUR 78 million was spent by international scientific cooperation on various projects covering the fields of neglected infectious diseases, health systems policy research and reproductive health.
We hope that Parliament will give its assent to the protocol as soon as possible.
The vote will take place on Thursday 12 July 2007.
The Agreement of August 2003 to add an annex to the original WTO Agreement that allowed these countries to import generic drugs was thought to solve this problem.
