Madam President, I requested the floor in order to express the profound dissatisfaction of a number of Italian Members - most probably all the Italian Members and, I imagine, the dissatisfaction of the majority or the whole of this Parliament as well - at the statements made by President Kuçan yesterday.
In particular, we cannot allow the massacre and eviction of the Italians to be described merely as a measure intended to combat collaboration with nazis and fascists, in the spirit of Potsdam and Yalta which divided Europe and from which Europe has had to regain its freedom and unity and is still in the process of doing so.
Madam President, I wholeheartedly support Mr Buttiglione' s speech and, on behalf of the Forza Italia delegation of which I am head in the European People' s Party, I cannot forget the suffering of the Italian people in the former Yugoslavia at the end and during the immediate aftermath of the Second World War.
Therefore, Madam President, in addition to calling upon you to make authoritative representations to the Slovenian Government, I also invite all the Members of Parliament to sign the declaration calling for the institution of a day dedicated to the Shoah, to the holocaust, to be observed throughout the European Union.
Thank you, Mrs Napoletano.
Statements by the President I have two statements to make.
The Quaestors acted quickly to resolve this situation in the best way possible.
Madam President, it is totally unacceptable that a building that cost millions of pounds, and which was officially opened less than six months ago, has thousands of faults and is now found to be a potential threat to the people who work in it.
I trust that this problem will be raised in the negotiations for the final price of the building, which should strengthen Parliament' s hand in reducing the cost for the taxpayers of Europe.
So that there is no room for error or misinterpretation, I would prefer to read you the letter. 'Madam President, during its meeting of 16 May 2000, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market re-examined the situation of Mr Le Pen.
Madam President, I am taking the floor to request that Parliament express its opinion in accordance with Rule 7(4) of the Rules of Procedure.
Go ahead, Mr Barón Crespo.
Madam President, Rule 7(4) of the Rules of Procedure lays down that the President may ask the competent committee for its opinion and that Parliament may express its opinion on the basis of that proposal.
I would ask Parliament to express its view, and I do so with all due respect for the Committee on Legal Affairs and the internal Market, which has held a full debate on this issue, because I believe that there are two basic elements here.
Monday' s letter from the chairperson of the Legal Affairs Committee - which is the one I know, because I have just been made aware of it - cited Article 12(2) of the 1976 Act concerning the election of representatives of the European Parliament, which reads as follows: "Where a seat falls vacant pursuant to national provisions in force in a Member State, the latter shall inform the European Parliament, which shall take note of the fact" .
Madam President, we have all been deeply distressed by the illness of our colleague.
We have to recognise that, particularly when the weather gets as hot as it did this week, colleagues' health is under a great deal of stress.
Thank you, Mrs Banotti.
Madam President, together with the other MEPs who were present during the moments after our colleague fell ill, I must say in all fairness that the time that passed between the incident occurring and the arrival of the doctor would be classed as admirable for any of the world' s institutions.
Madam President, I very much hope that Mr Staes will get well soon, but I believe that we should also remind and ask the media to inform our co-citizens that our life is not a bed of roses, and that coming and going like nomads is not the best thing for our health.
I will return to the issue we were discussing: my Group' s request for this House to express its opinion in accordance with the regulations.
I was reading Article 12(2) of the Act of 1976, which is the legal basis cited by the chairperson of the Legal Affairs Committee in her letter of Monday.
This paragraph says: "Where a seat falls vacant pursuant to national provisions in force in a Member State, the latter shall inform the European Parliament, which shall take note of the fact" .
I believe that, in accordance with the Treaties and our Rules, Parliament must take note of the decision of the French State.
In any event, I believe that this proposal should not be ratified by the European Parliament, I am going to request that it be put to the vote and I would like to say that my Group will vote against it.
Madam President, I am speaking as coordinator for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament' s Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
Madam President, firstly I would like to say that, in any event, we are all aware that we are facing a situation in which we have to find our way with few specific points of reference and therefore, we must resort to analogy, precedent, common sense and, in general terms, the general principles of the law.
This is because in our statutory law, in our Rules of Procedure, there is no explicit mention of how to proceed in a situation such as this.
As on other occasions, such as, for example, when the Legal Affairs Committee examines whether or not to lodge an appeal in the Court of Justice, we are talking about a purely technical assessment by an internal body of Parliament, which makes a recommendation to the President, the external body of Parliament, who is expected to take the decision.
I do not personally share that view, and I believe that, according to the relevant law, there are reasons not to share it, because, in any event, we are talking about two sentences, both from French courts and both leading to ineligibility.
The sentence exists.
However, in my capacity as chairperson, I must point out that the two letters are complementary.
The second letter refers to what happened at the second meeting and all the members of the Legal Affairs Committee know that that was how I presented it.
The vote had already taken place in the Legal Affairs Committee.
Madam President, I did inform you of what happened in that debate and why it did not continue, and it did not do so basically because there was insistence on the issue of the Tapie case.
Clearly, the Legal Affairs Committee can vote on anything, but since it was not laid down and since it was dealing with such an important and serious issue which did not appear in the agenda, it did not seem to me to be reasonable to hold a vote if we were taking a route which all the speakers - and this is recorded in the Minutes - for one reason or another, rejected.
I say this in order to refute these statements.
Madam President, Rule 7(4) is being cited.
That paragraph - in the event that we had to resort to it, which I do not believe to be the case, and I will explain why - states that Parliament may express its opinion on a proposal.
Therefore, if the President wishes to take this route, a report by the Legal Affairs Committee is absolutely essential and it would be irregular not to proceed in that way,... (Noise) ...
for Parliament to express its opinion on an issue for which there is no written document or anything whatsoever, and which requires legal consideration at the highest level.
Madam President, I believe that it falls to the President to take this decision, and you may consult the Rules of Procedure, which states that you must consult the Legal Affairs Committee.
However, it was totally proper that we should hear the chairperson of the Legal Affairs Committee which has carried out some extremely difficult and meticulous work on a very delicate issue.
I accept full responsibility in this matter.
Once again, I thank the committee for the long hours which its chairperson and members have devoted to this matter.
This, effectively, is what our Rules of Procedure say.
This is my proposal.
The person in question holds political views most of which I find loathsome.
We will defend these rights with equal vigour, because they are our common rights.
We do not, however, want this issue to be used against us for political purposes.
on whether the mandate of Mr Le Pen should be terminated, the majority of the French delegation in our Group will vote in favour of this termination.
Mrs Hautala, we must be very clear on this.
The House wants Parliament to adopt a position at midday on the opinion of the Legal Affairs Committee and it is understood that at that point we will see ... (Mixed reactions)But the letter will be provided to you.
The House should realise, from the fact that this matter has occupied our Committee for a period of three very long and exhaustive meetings, that it was felt to be a very complex and difficult issue to deal with.
The rule talks about Parliament having a right to give a view on a proposal, but it seems that you have merely an opinion, not a proposal.
If we were to take a view as a full Parliament, then we should have something more in front of us and a great deal more time and careful consideration before we enter into such a hasty vote on an issue such as this.
Madam President, I wish to raise a procedural motion.
The position of the Legal Affairs Committee was simple.
We cannot properly discuss and vote at midday on such a politically complex issue when this complexity is based on an internal contradiction between texts in French criminal law, which is not easily accessible to the Members of this House, including the French Members.
If you decide that a vote must be held in this Parliament, this cannot occur without a committee report.
It appears that the Council of State' s decision on the stay of execution will be taken imminently" .
If Parliament, therefore, wants a genuine proposal, we will ask the Legal Affairs Committee to draw up this proposal on which we can calmly vote, not at midday, but a little later perhaps.
Either this is a legal proposal from the committee and we can vote on this basis or this is not a legal proposal, in which case you are asking for one to be drawn up.
If you want a vote as an indication of our position, that is entirely up to you, but it would be wise to reject this as I believe there is a contradiction.
In our opinion - and on this point, Mr Wurtz, I cannot agree with you - the French State, the Italian State and the German State are sovereign.
The European Parliament is also sovereign and can adopt a position contrary to a state decision.
Madam President, the first thing I wish to say is that I think it would be unworthy of the European Parliament to be at loggerheads over this issue.
I have in mind the difference between Article 12 of the Act on the election of Members by direct universal suffrage and Rule 7(4) of our Rules of Procedure.
Especially given that we only voted on her report this week in the parliamentary committee, we have since had very little time to work on amendments for the plenary.
But to make matters worse, I have to say that, in this case, Rule 115 applies, which states that, except in the cases of urgency referred to in Rules 50 and 112, a debate and vote shall not be opened on a text unless it was distributed at least 24 hours previously.
I suggest postponing the debate and vote on this extremely important report to the next part-session.
I wish to make three brief points.
I myself was absent, but I have had this confirmed to me.
There is one point that, to many of us, is the issue of substance in this report.
Of all the areas of political sensitivity in contemporary Europe, that dealing with racism and xenophobia should be given the highest priority in this House.
I appeal to the House to make creative use of the possibility open to us, in setting our agenda, to recognise this substantive political requirement and to facilitate a debate at 3 p.m.
However, I am in favour of the compromise of starting this debate at 3.00 p.m., and I also hope that we will be able to finish it this afternoon.
I would like to point out once more that it is indeed extremely important to finish it during this sitting because, otherwise, we will lose all authority which we can still exercise in the Social Affairs Council, to be held on 5 and 6 June and, in that way, the report' s significance will be seriously undermined.
Opinions may be divided about Austria, but when it comes to making it clear what our position is on racism in Europe, we should not get bogged down in a formal debate as we did just now, we should make it plain that we are clear-thinking people.
The debate on this dossier in the committee I have the honour to chair has been an excellent example of cooperation between different committees in Parliament and indeed of cooperation between Parliament, the Commission and the Council presidency.
When it was voted in committee on Monday night, the text and all 200 amendments were available in all languages.
The fact is that the debate on this directive has been exemplary - it has been a credit to this Parliament and any attempt to delay that debate or to delay a vote would be a sordid political move for reasons of party political advantage. (Applause) Madam President, on behalf of my Group, I would like to insist on Rule 115 and it is essential that it is checked how and when the translations were provided.
That is another issue.
Mr Oostlander, this situation clearly comes under Rule 115 and Mr Cox' s proposal takes account of this rule.
Madam President, the proposal which I have made and I shall repeat is that we should consider holding the debate at 15.00 hrs followed by the urgency debate, followed by votes on the report, other reports that are completed in debate and urgencies this afternoon.
I have a right to know.
Mr Posselt, considering the time necessary for the debate on Mrs Buitenweg' s report, the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance will take place at approximately 4.30 p.m.
This report is also a reaction to the excellent communication by the Committee on new measures to fight trafficking in women.
The report primarily aims to fight trafficking in women, but also in children and men, that is to say in people in general.
In a report by the United Nations, it is stressed that trafficking in people is one of the fastest growing forms of organised crime.
The huge profits and relative safety for the perpetrators who generate this type of crime will undoubtedly have something to do with this.
Priority must also be given to the fight against organised networks which are not only involved in trafficking in people but which are also involved in all kinds of other criminal activity, such as the trade in narcotics, arms and such like.
Various initiatives have already been taken at European level.
However, the harmonisation of the different national legislations in this field and the ensuing discrepancies in methods of investigation and prosecution have to be tackled at European level as a matter of priority.
From a survey organised in connection with this report, it is quite clear that there are considerable discrepancies in this sphere between the Member States and between one candidate country and another.
It is encouraging that, in the first half of this year, the Commission wishes to submit detailed proposals for harmonising criminal legislation in the Member States on trafficking in people with a view to their sexual exploitation and, specifically, proposals for granting temporary residence permits to victims who are prepared to cooperate in the investigations which are necessary if legal action is to be taken against the traffickers.
Scanning the amendments, I have the impression that some people want to hijack this report, which is about victims of trafficking in people, to start a debate on prostitution.
In the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, a clear decision was made to discuss trafficking in women, or forced prostitution, within the framework of this report.
As I said, trafficking in people is not just about the problem of demand for prostitution.
Victims of trafficking in women also find it extremely difficult to re-integrate into their place of origin and even within their own families.
By holding this debate today in the European Parliament, we are helping the victims to regain their dignity and integrity.
This is why, in our opinion, we cannot use the term 'forced prostitution' in this report.
Trafficking in women involves terrible sexual exploitation.
We must help these victims to speak out and denounce their living conditions.
When they resist the pressure of traffickers and pimps, they are threatened either personally or through their families.
The traffickers belong to a Mafia-like criminal organisation and control several links in the network that has power over the victim.
Not only do women from Asian countries fall victim, but also more and more women from Central and Eastern European countries, including women from candidate countries.
In any event, we should recognise that the European Commission' s proposals are, on the whole, reasonable and hopefully useful.
Nevertheless, and given the cross-border nature of this crime, we need to harmonise its classification in all the Member States, including cross-border aspects and universal jurisdiction.
Furthermore, the extremely harsh conditions in which the victims live more than justify the Member States granting them permanent residence permits for humanitarian reasons.
If we really want to help the victims, we must guarantee their safety as well as that of their families and compensate them through the seizure of the networks' assets.
All of these considerations have been approved practically unanimously by the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, but they will not be enough.
Combating the trafficking in women and immigration policy must become a priority within the political agenda of the European Union and the Member States.
Until we find overall solutions to the question of development, the number of people searching for a better life will be unstoppable and migratory pressure uncontainable.
At the same time, legislation as well as cooperation are inadequate.
The first concerns automatic refugee status for victims of trafficking in women.
What is required here is tantamount to surrendering an important and fundamental part of legal protection, namely the fact that one is considered innocent until proven guilty.
Finally, the discussion on trafficking in women and people is important and a matter of urgency.
This is why it would be wrong to weigh down this discussion with moral judgements on prostitution, as certain people here are attempting to do.
In these discussions several rather abolitionist associations have tried to lump together trafficking in women, prostitution and pimping.
Whether legislation is abolitionist as in France, prohibitionist as in Sweden or even sometimes regulatory, if it fails to recognise a whole population this can only reinforce discrimination against forced immigrants and also prostitutes, irrespective of whether they are immigrants or not.
Mrs Roure is right in her analysis of this problem but we accept that different solutions must be examined and that various proposals must be made and considered.
The Commission absolutely must examine all forms of common legislation on prostitution which would give real status to prostitutes in order to protect these women and men from pimping, violence and marginalisation.
The first concerns the role of the sex industry in this issue.
That is very strange, especially when we are talking about slavery and trafficking in women.
During a conference organised jointly by the United States of America and the Philippines in March, the very lucrative aspect of this new market was also raised.
Trafficking in human beings is, after drugs and weapons, the third largest source of income for organised crime.
Yet trafficking in human beings is, above all, a violation of human dignity and human rights.
So much the better, for the resignation shown towards what society has deemed to be irreversible is intolerable.
We must now help these people whose bodies are being exploited for commercial purposes, both in our countries and in their countries of origin, by increasing aid for development, education and cooperation between countries.
Trafficking in human beings is incredibly widespread in our countries because the demand exists and because the European Union is adept at showing itself to be a greedy customer, disdainful of the distress caused to these adults and children who have been denied any choice.
To conclude, I will refer to the slogan of the seminar organised in Paris on 15 May under the patronage of the European Parliament which says that the humiliation of human beings through prostitution represents an intolerable attack on human rights.
Mr President, on behalf of the Members of the Bonino List, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report on the tragic issue of trafficking in women.
The report recommends possible solutions which have already been successfully implemented, such as issuing victims with residence permits and providing protection and free healthcare.
Given the current state of legislation, we are faced with a wide diversity of penal traditions in our Member States.
Instead, we must take inspiration from the method in the Schmid report on combating fraud and counterfeiting of non-cash means of payment.
To conclude, I am sure that this would render the action we are taking to combat this scourge more effective and that we would avoid the pitfalls of a harmonisation which would delay the measures which must now be adopted.
On the other hand, the British delegation, which is now 36 members, has retabled the resolution in its original form.
The debate will take place as proposed.
Mr President, the resolution by the Green Group was tabled first.
I say this in relation to the Provan report and the reform of the voting system in Parliament.
Mr President, I have an interest in a sector affected by the Commission communication which is the subject of this report.
As a result, I will not take part in any vote on this report.
I do not want to have a debate on this.
Mr Barón Crespo, is this a formal request on behalf of the Socialist Group?
I would like to thank everyone for their comments but I agree most with the comment made by Mr Hänsch.
The Bureau is looking at the working methods of Parliament.
Whereas, perhaps owing to my curious accent, it was transcribed as "biannual" , which would require two reports a year and would be over-egging the pudding!
I accept that it is unsatisfactory that groups can withdraw their requests at any stage.
There must be a chance to do this if another group withdraws its request.
As normal after the votes, we will continue with the debates and the first two are Sörensen and Karamanou.
That is correct and that is what the House has agreed to, so that is what we will be doing.
Mr President, I rise on a similar point, because I am not clear what the House has agreed to.
We have agreed to vote at 6 p.m.
What we could do is reduce the amount of speaking time for urgencies so there will be an opportunity for a debate on each of them.
Mr Ford, that is not a matter for the President.
What we have decided is to allocate the first hour of what normally would have been the urgency debate to the Buitenweg report.
It is then up to the groups to decide how they allocate speaking time for the urgency debates.
It will depend on how the groups allocate speaking time between the different subjects and that is a matter for the groups, not for the President.
It was not agreed we would reduce the time of that debate, let us be clear on that.
I said an hour.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE - Ferber report (A5-0121/2000) Mr President, I was unable to assent to the Ferber report.
But the European Union will not become more democratic if the European Parliament receives more funding.
The money that is available should be spent on the needs of our 375 million people and on the protection of our environment, not on the European Parliament as an institution.
I am of the opinion that we could save ourselves a great deal of cost and unnecessary effort if we were to replace the system of reports and rapporteurs by getting the groups to react directly to the planned proposals, as is the case in most national parliaments.
Mr President, I was happy to vote for the Ferber report on the budget for the financial year 2001, but I am not very happy with the minimal amount of space, money and European Union funds it allocates to supporting activities benefiting pensioners and the elderly.
The amount proposed corresponds to 20% of the appropriations for heading five and therefore respects the ceiling which the European Parliament itself set for 2001.
However, in view of the need to deal with the consequences, including linguistic ones, of future enlargements, this limited increase in the budget of our institution more than ever requires rational and responsible management of this budget.
In this way, respect for the identities, nations and cultures of Europe and cost-effectiveness in the daily work of the European institutions could be combined.
This solution would also offer the undeniable advantage of benefiting all the European candidate countries whose first foreign language is French, German or English.
Indeed, the European Parliament has no need at all for the building in which we are meeting this week!
This was agreed by the Heads of State and Government at their summit in Edinburgh years ago.
The idea is to keep at most the specialist services such as the printing and translating services in Luxembourg.
Mr President, as the rapporteur rightly mentions in the second point in his report, budget consolidation must be given the highest priority at present.
The rapporteur was unable to include the stability programme which has now been presented by the Austrian Government in his report.
As far as we are concerned, we were not elected to congratulate governments which help employers and major financial groups to get rich by exacerbating inequalities, leaving 18 million men and women unemployed, making flexibility and precariousness widespread and drastically reducing the wage bill in order to ensure continued growth in capital income, including in its most parasitic and speculative forms.
Like Mr Katiforis, I am delighted to see renewed growth in Europe.
However, also like the rapporteur, I know that this will not be enough to enable a return to a situation of full employment without the Member States adopting a proactive policy and, I would add, without a reduction in working hours.
This means that despite referring to the need for active employment policies to combat unemployment and to achieve full employment in the medium term, the Commission continues to prescribe the same solutions, which have not brought any net improvement in employment, since the current unemployment rate is even higher than it was at the start of the decade, as the Commission recognises.
In this European Parliament report, the rapporteur makes some criticisms of the acceleration of the convergence and stability criteria objectives, insists on the need to increase investment and accepts the adoption of global fiscal measures in order to combat financial speculation.
The broad guidelines of European economic policy developed in this report seem to be heading in the right direction.
Full employment and the transition to a knowledge-based economy form our common aim for the first decade of the 21st century.
On the contrary, current job creations are due to an economic context characterised by an increase in consumption among wage-earners and a weak euro favouring exports.
Two points have particularly shaken us.
However, the rapporteur goes even further in supporting the Commission' s recommendations.
We have accordingly voted against the report.
Goebbels report (A5-0135/2000) Mr President, I have already declared, during the debate on the decision to allow Greece to enter the European single currency, that I am totally in favour of Greece' s immediate entry, for it has met all the criteria required by the Treaties of the European Union.
From a technical point of view, Greece has undisputedly managed to fulfil the criteria set in the Maastricht Treaty for entering the third stage of EMU.
Many MEPs have expressed doubts about, in particular, the sustainability of the convergence and stability policy of the Member States.
We have all been able to see how the pleas addressed to Greece to make further efforts to reduce its debt and to obtain lasting stability do not only pertain to the situation of Greece itself, but also to the discontent about the way in which other Member States with a very high debt ratio have behaved, not making sufficient use of the options available to them, as a result of economic growth and low interest rates, to reduce the debt.
Greece is welcome in euroland, and all Member States in the euro zone must respect the letter and spirit of the Stability and Growth Pact.
Sellafield resolutions Mr President, the vote on Sellafield was a first for the European Parliament.
I think it is the first time that the European Parliament has spoken in favour of uniform safety standards for nuclear power stations.
Randzio-Plath report (A5-0109/2000) Mr President, I voted for the Randzio-Plath report on the distortion of competition where public undertakings are concerned.
However, it is only interested in transparency with regard to public undertakings and only in terms of finding out whether state aid distorts competition between public and private undertakings.
We will vote against this draft directive and reaffirm that, in the interests of society, we must have total transparency in the operation and accounts of all undertakings, both public and private, and the abolition of secrecy in business.
By taking as its basic philosophy the need to ensure competition between the public and private sectors, the Commission has, in fact, ended up undervaluing the important role of public enterprises which provide public services, and this is unacceptable.
The 50 poorest countries spend twice as much servicing their debt as they receive in aid.
The UNCTAD report on sub-Saharan Africa shows that African countries have not received any benefit from structural adjustment programmes for over ten years.
Therefore, the European Union should promote an international, bilateral and multilateral action cancelling the Third World debt with no conditions attached.
The Mugabe regime is authoritarian and corrupt.
We have therefore not only voted against this motion but must also denounce the cynicism and hypocrisy of those who defend the interests of the privileged whites in Zimbabwe.
Paasilinna report (A5-0094/2000) Mr President, I voted for the Paasilinna report on the telecommunications regulatory package but I found it unsatisfactory as well.
Behind the regulations was a political objective of ensuring growth, employment and competitiveness and of giving everyone access to the information society while ensuring adequate legal protection.
The Commission has played a supervisory role in this which has resulted in a series of reports since May 1997.
The Commission communication before us today is part of this process and the assessment presented is balanced to say the least.
Approximately two years after full liberalisation, the telecommunication services markets in the Member States are characterised by a rising growth rate, many new arrivals and falling charges.
The exclusion of some citizens from the new information technology society cannot be tolerated.
The preservation of universal service must therefore ensure the inclusive nature of this society.
Due to a desire to see the cost of access to the Internet lowered and for this to be accessible to all citizens, Parliament insists in its report on the need to open up competition in the local loop.
To conclude, I would say that the telecommunications liberalisation process is not an end in itself but a step towards ensuring the transition to the information society.
Portugal Telecom, a public enterprise which has received billions of escudos of public investment, has been partially privatised, which has led to an increase in charges to what are called 'residential users' - the majority of the population - who today face the 'highest charges in Europe' .
In this context, the report illuminates a number of important aspects.
What the report does not discuss, and what the Commission' s report does not take account of, either, are the different conditions prevailing in the EU' s Member States when it comes to developing and maintaining different types of network.
Alyssandrakis report (A5-0122/2000) Mr President, I voted for this report, which is the first Alyssandrakis report on radio frequencies, which are nowadays used chiefly to advance mobile phone communications technology.
I am not referring to pensioners and the elderly in general, but, in this case, I am referring to my mother.
Alyssandrakis report (A5-0119/2000) Mr President, in relation to the second Alyssandrakis report, I must mention my daughter.
The present system for filing patent applications obliges the applicant to file a patent application separately in each Member State, which inevitably results in an undesirable fragmentation of the European market.
Any research policy based on this sort of perception and which serves this sort of policy is bound to distort the nature of research as a procedure for producing new knowledge and as a productive power.
According to the Commission communication, the gap between total public and private expenditure on research in the USA and in the EU is continuing to widen, having grown from EUR 12 billion in 1992 to some EUR 60 billion in 1998.
Similarly, in terms of employment, there are just 2.5 researchers for every thousand workers in European companies, compared with 6.7 per thousand in the USA and 6 per thousand in Japan.
Yet we know that research and technology contribute between 25% and 50% to economic growth and play an important part in the competitiveness, employment and quality of life of Europe' s citizens.
This being the case, how can the Heads of Government of the 15 Member States of the European Union pledge to achieve a new strategic objective for the next decade, that is to make the European Union the most dynamic and competitive knowledge­based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth, with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion, unless they significantly change their research policy, and particularly the budgets earmarked for this?
Smet/Gröner report (A5-0125/2000) The recognition of women' s rights as an integral and indivisible component of universal human rights requires the adoption of accompanying measures which will allow this recognition to be transposed into concrete actions.
Of particular importance is the request for specific preventive measures and measures to promote women' s health and guarantee their right to genetic health, as long as this right is not understood to mean the right to abortion but rather the right to the protection of the health of the expectant mother and the unborn child.
With regard to the promotion of equal opportunities in the context of policies on cooperation with development, I would like to point out that, in my view, efforts in this area should concentrate especially on guaranteeing girls' access to primary education, which means at the same time ensuring that it is free.
It is also of fundamental importance for the Council, the Commission and the Member States to do everything possible to combat violence against women, especially in the home, at the workplace, in society in general and in armed conflicts.
The UN already intends to rule the world by imposing a uniform vision, based on the western model, on all the regions of the planet, regardless of their existing cultures and laws.
While they have succeeded in their aim of weakening still further the demography of western countries, they have not responded in a logical way to the more urgent question of protecting those women who are really in difficulty.
We are opposed to discrimination, we do believe in equality of treatment between men and women.
On the issue of making contraceptives more widely available we voted against the amendment because we believe these are issues of personal morality and conscience and not an issue where the European Union should be making a political stand.
Regarding paragraph 26, which states that "the respect of women's rights should be one of the main conditions for the granting of aid and should be closely monitored in all external relations and cooperation" , the European Union must not tie any specifications to its distribution of aid nor impose any conditions for the reception of aid amongst women, realising that women are extremely vulnerable to the use of coercion and coercive techniques in order to realise their basic human rights such as shelter, nutrition, education and basic health care.
However, we believe that, in the context of this debate, the absolute priority must be to provide education.
We also cannot accept the individualisation of human rights to be found in this report.
Finally, over one thousand women' s associations in 140 countries are this year organising a world march to fight against continuing violence and to fight for equality.
We have therefore voted in favour of this report despite its limitations and we will demonstrate in Paris on 17 June together with all those who are fighting for equality and women' s rights.
Mr President, it was fifty years ago last week that Robert Schuman, with his speech, laid the foundation for the ECSC.
I have understood that some people in the Council are in favour of excluding asylum and migration policy, as well as the issuing of visas, from this ban on discrimination.
A much-debated topic in this Parliament is the burden of proof.
Maybe those opposing this procedure could explain to me sometime during this debate why we nonetheless have to review it and, more specifically, why there is less protection against racial discrimination than against sex discrimination.
I hope therefore that the House, in its wisdom, will decide tomorrow to adhere as far as possible to the Commission' s original text.
Unfortunately, statutory measures against racism are necessary.
They provide victims with protection and a right to redress.
On behalf of my colleague Mogens Camre, I wish to categorically repudiate this categorisation and in particular the misleading nature of the text, given that the report refers to a leader of a neo-Nazi party in Denmark, which has nothing to do with the Danish People' s Party.
President, as co-rapporteur for this, Europe' s first ever race directive, I and my party are proud to contribute to legislation which establishes common standards of protection for the victims of racial discrimination throughout our continent.
This will send a clear signal to the racist extreme right that they have no part in modern Europe and it closes the chapter of racism, anti-Semitism and xenophobia which tragically blighted our history in the century just past.
The 24-year old black care worker set on fire in a racist attack in Britain, the 5 neo-Nazis convicted of beating two Vietnamese people in Germany, the French authorities cited by Amnesty International for torture of a Moroccan-Dutch national, all of which took place in Europe this very week are simply the most visible examples of racial discrimination which is the daily experience of black and ethnic minority Europeans in our businesses, communities and on our streets.
The Commission for Racial Equality from the UK is just one example in Europe and I am pleased that some of the best lessons of the UK' s Race Relations Act alongside best practice from other Member States are being translated into European law today.
Let me turn to the specific improvements we propose and which we expect to be accepted: that incitement or pressure to discriminate is banned just as much as the discrimination itself; that groups as well as individuals will be able to bring cases including a legal status for voluntary organisations to engage in civil dialogue, a partnership to implement the directive for the first time; that the scope of the new law is clearly applied to all public authorities; that conciliation is offered to resolve disputes without prejudice to the right of access to the courts; and that the effectiveness of the new law is tested one to two years, not five, following its implementation.
Finally, I offer my sincere congratulations to Kathalijne Buitenweg for her work and I thank her for her cooperation in bringing this before Parliament.
National groups such as the UK Race and Europe Network in my country, the European Network against Racism and, in particular, the Starting Line group have worked for 20 years to get this legislation and for them today is still simply the beginning.
Mr President, I want to add my voice to those Members calling for the swift passage of this legislation through Parliament.
Since the 1980s we have led on action and on initiatives to combat racism, xenophobia and discrimination.
Groups and anti-racist organisations in my region, in the North-West of England, are eagerly awaiting this legislation.
So vicious was this attack that Merseyside police called for an urgent press conference.
This is why it is vital that Europe gives a strong public statement on racism and discrimination backed up by legislative action to ban this and to extend the scope of legal redress by shifting the burden of proof from the victim to the racist and allied groups and organisations to bring race discrimination cases to courts across the EU.
In voting through this report and its recommendations, this Parliament can give a strong signal that it is prepared to be tough on racism and tough on the causes and perpetrators of racism.
Those parties which seek to legitimise and promote racism and discrimination through the ballot box, and we have examples in many countries, should take note of this directive and incorporate the recommendations and its legal force in their own constitutions.
Firstly, I want to congratulate the Commission on this text.
It is a good text.
Two things I would like to highlight: Amendment No 29, which tries to make sure that there is no hiding place for racism, no hiding place behind considerations of religion, considerations of belief and considerations of nationality.
I hope the Commission will make sure in the Action Programme, proposed to accompany this package, that we have a lot of projects from the applicant states.
It is very important that we get it through today.
I hope that at the end of the afternoon we will have no more shenanigans, no more delays and we will make sure we get the vote at 6 p.m.
Some 15 or 20 years ago in the Netherlands, I worked together with a Christian-Democrat member of government, Mrs Jeltien Kraaieveld, who was also involved in this anti-discrimination legislation in the field of discrimination based on sex.
On behalf of part of my Group, I also find it extremely important that elections of employees representatives are clearly provided for.
Naturally, these too should be held free from discrimination based on race or ethnic origin.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am a Member of the group which has joined forces with the two rapporteurs, Mrs Kathalijne Buitenweg and Mr Richard Howitt, with a great deal of conviction in order to enable Parliament to deliver the parliamentary opinion on this Commission proposal this week, and I would like to thank the rapporteurs very explicitly and with all my heart for the extremely constructive spirit in which we have been able to work.
The Social Democrats in Parliament have fought doggedly to keep this item on the agenda and I am pleased that we managed to achieve this thanks to a sound proposal for compromise from the Liberals.
With all due sympathy and respect for the work which Mr Arie Oostlander and a number of delegates in the PPE-DE Group have put into this in order to win that group over too, I have to say that the continuous attempts at sabotage and procedural games which we have experienced here this week are, as far as I am concerned, proof that a hard core of conservative PPE-DE Members want nothing more than to undermine this report and the directive.
We all know that the Portuguese Presidency is determined to bring this debate in the Council to a successful conclusion.
The majority of MEPs know very well why this directive is important.
By implementing the Treaty' s non-discrimination principle swiftly and forcefully, Europe wants to give out an unambiguous message to the citizens in our own countries and those in the candidate countries.
This is to prove that Europe is serious about the fight for equal opportunities, irrespective of people' s race or ethnic origin and also because it is a well-known fact that discrimination is still rife in our countries, and that there is still racism and extreme nationalism which, in fact, is more prominent than before because racist political parties are cashing in on the 'own nation first' ideas.
Secondly, in our opinion, the strength of this directive will stand or fall with its enforceability, the extent to which it monitors discrimination, the efficiency of the measures taken against discrimination and, as such, the importance we attach to the possibility of organising collective actions to tie sanctions in with the directive.
I am convinced that the centre for equal opportunities in my own country will be encouraged in its activities by this directive.
It is also timely for Europe to legislate now with the alarming rise in the Far Right and racist violence.
Thirdly, the inclusion via Amendments Nos 15 and 29 of disguised race discrimination.
My Group is not favourable to the inclusion of religion or belief in the scope of this directive because that needs much more thought.
However, we believe unequal treatment should be caught if it only pretends to be based on religion or nationality but is, in fact, race discrimination pure and simple.
Fourthly, the inclusion, as has already been mentioned, of incitement or pressure to discriminate - that is very important.
Sixthly, although my Group understands the thinking behind Amendment No 38, the fact that it includes private clubs or associations is rather problematical.
To give you an example: I represent London and it could mean a problem for Caribbean people getting together to reminisce about life in the Caribbean in the 1950s if some white people were excluded.
I think that Amendment No 38 is not well drafted.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, three years after the Treaty of Amsterdam was adopted and the famous and much-debated Article 13 was introduced, the Council is proposing two directives to implement the principles of this Treaty.
The definition of a minimum European framework for the fight against discrimination is therefore urgently required.
Singling out one type of discrimination gives the impression that some types of discrimination are less reprehensible than others.
The Council must therefore make haste and propose a draft directive encompassing all types of discrimination.
The second problem concerns the exclusion of religious discrimination from this directive.
Discrimination against North African communities in Europe is also two-sided.
It may even often be said that the fear of Islam acts as a catalyst for racism towards these communities.
To conclude, it is essential that the Council adopts an integrated approach towards the legal tools to be established in order to apply Article 13 in our daily life.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it would have been a good thing if the European Parliament had made a positive, informative and decisive contribution to the proposal for a Council directive, in line with the impetus given by the Portuguese Presidency.
If there is discrimination between a black person and a white person, or vice versa, for example if someone discriminates against a white Portuguese in favour of a black Portuguese, or against a black Portuguese in favour of a white Portuguese, this is clearly unlawful racism and should result in prosecution.
The problem is that in many of the amendments these two concepts are confused, with potentially disastrous effects, particularly in areas such as public service, and even in other, unexpected areas.
With each passing day, Europe is becoming a continent which, as the United Nations' reports on the European population trend illustrate, is host to citizens of third States but which, above all, needs their contribution, their culture, their potential and their initiatives.
In a context such as this, the Union must reaffirm the fundamental principles of democracy and ensure that all citizens and residents have the same rights and the same duties.
This is because, in general terms, we do not have confidence in institutions which, in violation of the democratic principle of the separation of powers, interfere with other institutions, with the result that they either upset the balance between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities or they find themselves without a specific function because everything is already being done by other institutions.
With these reservations, the Members of the Bonino List will support the report and the directive, in the hope that the European Parliament and the Commission will reflect upon the points we have raised and make the appropriate amendments.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dismayed as I am about the way the 14 Member States have prejudged Austria, I particularly welcome the Commission proposal.
It goes without saying that the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin should be applied.
However, it is possible to overshoot the mark, even in the case of such an uncontroversial issue.
The reversal of the burden of proof proposed by the Commission would mean imposing an intolerable burden on small- and medium-sized enterprises in particular, as they would in future have to keep a record of every job interview, so that in serious cases they would be able to provide proof.
Arrangements like this do not result in greater understanding for the victims of discrimination.
Social groups, political parties, parliaments, MEPs and international conferences have proposed and have insisted that we legislate against the huge issue of racism and the conduct of organised society.
The second reason is that, because of the current political climate, because of the political problems which have arisen within the Union over recent months in connection with racist clashes at political and social level, today' s piece of work is the first to go beyond words, to go beyond resolutions and general political expression to specific policy making.
The European Commission has worked quickly following the presentation of your committee' s report, with the collaboration of all the services involved, and I am pleased to say that over half the amendments have been accepted either in spirit or in part.
I must stress that the amendments which have not been accepted have mainly been rejected for administrative or legal reasons or because we know from our experience and from our collaboration over the years that the Council is sure to reject them.
I am pleased to say that we agree with the amendments to incorporate the sexual dimension (Amendments Nos 7 and 59), the amendments to the material and personal scope (Amendments Nos 5, 30, 31, 34, 36 and 37) and the amendment on taking positive action (Amendment No 40).
We also agree with the idea of conciliation procedures in Amendment No 42, consultation with governmental organisations (Amendments Nos 21, 50 and 51) and with the amendments relating to previous acts of the European Parliament and the Council (Amendments Nos 3, 4, 8, 9 and 12).
I also agree with your proposal to define the role of the European Monitoring Centre - as contained in Amendment No 59 - although I should point out that our experience at the Commission tells us that the submission of reports by Member States every two years is a particularly demanding task and will not enable us to correctly assess the impact of the policies developed.
Long discussions were held in the Commission when the proposal was drawn up as to whether a ban on discrimination on the grounds of religion should be included in this directive.
The number of amendments which has actually been accepted is very large and I imagine that we agree that we need to examine how these ideas can be incorporated into an amended proposal so that we retain the structure and balance in the text and the proposal has some chance of being approved by the Council, because I think that, for all of us, the best balance is between what we want and what is feasible.
The reforms which we are presently endeavouring to implement within the Commission have taken account of the entire framework of this directive.
The international community sets great store by the fight against racism and it is also high on the agenda of the Member States, but a great deal still needs to be done in order to protect human rights and fight racism, xenophobia and intolerance.
It would be beneficial if organisations or other legal entities which intend to fight discrimination were to have the right to initiate the procedure to promote the observation or application of this directive or to support victims in the procedure.
The same system is now also being proposed with regard to this directive.
Clearly, in the 21st century, ideological and political convictions will meet somewhere between the progressive, cosmopolitan perception which accepts a multicultural society, and fundamentalism, which approaches those who are different with fear and enmity and promotes racism and xenophobia.
Once the directive has been adopted by the Council, we hope that the Member States will quickly give immediate priority: first, to judicial cooperation and harmonisation of their criminal legislation; secondly, to instructing state agencies and employers on how to apply the directive to all natural and legal persons; thirdly, to applying the 1997 Charter of the European Political Parties on the defence of fundamental rights and the fight against all forms of racial violence; fourthly, to the right of individual victims of discrimination to take collective action; fifthly, to guaranteeing the access of minorities to vocational training, employment, health services and national insurance and pension schemes and their participation in economic, social, political and cultural life.
We have to send the message that we are opposed to racism and xenophobia across the EU.
I am glad for that reason that we are having the vote today.
This is the reason I wanted Amendment No 48 on simple language to go in.
The plaintiff does have to provide facts and it has already been said that equal opportunities for men and women cover this in European legislation as well.
The action programme against discrimination, the Commission' s two proposals for directives, the opening of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia, and lastly the adoption of Article 13 of the Treaty all give an irrevocable signal.
The European Parliament has also made its own contribution.
I would like to expressly thank Mrs Buitenweg for her excellent work and I assume that we will adopt this report by a clear majority today, even if the Commissioner responsible has let it be known here today that she cannot accept half the amendments.
Nevertheless, a very important step is being taken today and we are giving a signal.
At a time when some rightly have doubts about the Union, it could in this way also show that it is not just a coalition to defend the economic interests of the rich countries but that it is based on values of freedom, tolerance and solidarity.
For all these reasons we must vote for this report.
Most countries already have legislation against racism and discrimination, including in some of their constitutions.
In France last year there were only 14 complaints and convictions for acts of discrimination.
The associations are currently leading the fight against discrimination.
Currently, a young person born in a Member State of foreign parents is faced with two different situations.
Parliament and the Commission should ask the Council about this issue so that greater coherence can be achieved in all legislation.
But he is free to accept or reject my advice.
We had a similar example in 20th century China during the Cultural Revolution.
My own party was accused by a lot of left-wingers of racism because it spoke out on the issue of asylum-seekers in the United Kingdom.
As so often in this House, we have failed to think through the possible unintended consequences.
This legislation is unnecessary at a European level.
I am proud to say that I am opposed to discrimination and racism in all its forms, but this irrational and unjust legislation will bring Europe further into disrepute among many of my constituents.
I am pleased to say that the rest of my delegation will be joining me in opposing it.
Mr President, I wish to make three points.
Firstly, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, the draftspeople and the Commission - in particular Commissioner Diamantopoulou - on the directive and the report we have in front of us.
We have here legislation that will make a real impact on the lives of the 12 to 14 million third country nationals living in the European Union and the 4 million black Europeans.
Secondly, and without subtracting an iota from my support for the report and the directive as a whole, the Council will have to resolve a number of outstanding issues: on representative actions, on the definition of indirect discrimination and, as the previous speaker said, on the burden of proof.
The best basis is the existing burden-of-proof legislation, which is now underpinned by 25 years of case-law, and where the numbers are not available, expert opinion will suffice.
Thirdly and finally, I wish to warn my colleagues in the PPE Group.
With Mr Haider and Mr Le Pen lurking in the background, the Vlaams Blok and the Movimento Sociale Fiamma Tricolore promoting racism and xenophobia, the PPE Group, as a whole, should not be surprised if people conclude that if they continue with their technical objections, then this is a thinly disguised attempt to block these proposals which the vast majority of Europe so much welcomes.
Mr President, the Economist says that we need 13.5 million immigrants by the year 2015 in order to get everything done that needs to be done in Europe.
Perhaps we must also combat these things for the sake of our own future.
In Swedish law on measures to combat ethnic discrimination, it is expressly stated that, in using the term ethnic affiliation, the law means that someone belongs to a group of persons of the same race, skin colour, national or ethnic origin or confession.
I assume this will be reflected in their willingness to take on board what Parliament is saying.
We have to acknowledge that in this House we regularly call upon other countries and governments to recognise the rights of ethnic minorities and to practice policies of universal human rights.
Particularly as an Austrian, I can say that in recent years, with a population of 7 million, we have accepted a million refugees.
Austria has the world' s strictest laws against fascism and against nazism.
Mr President it is a measure of the effectiveness and importance of this legislation that even in the midst of a comprehensive series of reforms of race relations legislation in my own country, we have a situation where further improvements can be made.
I was going to make a speech of the normal variety, but having heard some of the responses across the House, I want to change what I was going to say, which is more in sorrow than in anger.
This House should recognise and change its tone on what it sees as Article 13.
One is that we create a level playing field through Article 13.
The burden of proof, the ability for organisations to take cases on behalf of individuals who have been harassed or discriminated against - all of these laws do not create an advantage for the majority of society.
We must start talking positively about these proposals mainly because the Commission and the Portuguese Presidency, many who have created this report, many of my colleagues who have worked hard on their opinions, have responded in the way that we have because we understand that this legislation is not about victims, it is about enriching EU countries.
So do I, for I applaud the fact that the Commission has been so quick in getting this proposal on the table and implementing Article 13.
We have seen how this is an enormous advantage in connection with sex discrimination, and it is therefore good that it is now being introduced in this area.
In this way, the Commission is going to create a hierarchy of grounds for discrimination, a way of proceeding which I think is totally at odds with the wording, meaning and spirit of Article 13.
It is essential that we take advantage of the opportunity that is represented in the Commission's proposals on the whole of Article 13.
I hope that this approach will be addressed when we look at the situation effecting all minorities.
They demonstrate that the Member States, Parliament and the Commission are serious about the long-term eradication of discrimination and racism.
It does not fulfil my every ambition, yet it represents a start to a fight against racism in Europe, in our nations, our regions and, more importantly, in our communities.
One day I hope to be standing in this Chamber debating directives which will aim to eradicate discrimination specifically based on, for example, disability, age and sexual orientation.
Finally, the spectacle of a white middle-class British male Tory giving a lecture on discrimination and the effects of discrimination would be laughable if it was not so damning and lamentable. (Applause).
We should, therefore, adopt this report without further delay.
This directive forms part of a larger package which implements Article 13 of the EC Treaty.
As others have already mentioned, this Article does not only pertain to combating discrimination based on racial or ethnic origin, but also based on other grounds.
I can understand why the Commission has decided to include the fight against racial discrimination in a separate draft directive.
Far harder to accept is the fact that this draft directive against racial discrimination applies over a broader social range and, in terms of content, comprises stronger legal guarantees and control mechanisms than the second draft directive which is still in the pipeline and which is designed to fight other types of discrimination.
This would give out the wrong political message which would, in particular, have an adverse effect on the fight against discrimination on grounds such as age, handicap and sexual orientation.
There is not enough time to list them all here, but I do not have the impression that a lack of knowledge on the part of the Commission concerning this matter is the problem.
I therefore hope that the Commissioner will pledge that she will start this exercise within the foreseeable future and will present proposals soon, as a result of which the equal treatment of the sexes in and out of the work sphere, but especially outside the work sphere, will be aligned to the directive which we are discussing, and will hopefully be adopting, here today.
Mr President, we are all opposed to discrimination and violence of all forms.
However, I do not believe extending EU competence to this area is either necessary or useful to its cause.
What we need is education, time and confidence building in a spirit of cooperation between the various ethnic communities.
The shift of the burden of proof, as called for by this draft directive, is both frightening and extreme.
This is a very dangerous precedent against all forms of natural justice.
Criminal justice must remain the prerogative of the Member States.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place immediately following the urgencies.
The European Union, the United States and the United Nations have all displayed considerable concern about the developments in Sierra Leone.
Mr President, the violation of the Lomé peace agreement by the Revolutionary United Front in Sierra Leone is not only a human tragedy for the civilian populations, especially for children, but is also a political tragedy for the whole international community.
The impunity enjoyed by the rebels in Sierra Leone and the weakness of the peace-keeping forces, who can neither leave the country, for political and humanitarian reasons, nor effectively confront the armed rebels, are a threat to any future United Nations peace mission.
The mandate of the United Nations mission in Sierra Leone is, by any reckoning, insufficient to achieve its objectives.
Its reinforcement, requested by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, depends on a decision by the Security Council, the same Security Council which gave the Blue Helmets the resources they required in East Timor and Bosnia, but which is much more reluctant to do the same in Sierra Leone at the moment.
The United States and Great Britain have only sent forces to the United Nations mission in order to guarantee the safety of the evacuation.
The only solution to the difficulties of the United Nations mission, in terms of achieving compliance with the peace agreement, is to entrust the political negotiation to the leaders of Liberia and Libya, whose record in seeking peace is very doubtful and also very worrying.
The liberation of some of the hostages and the arrest yesterday of Sankoh do not put an end to this conflict, but rather they may be a cause for even greater concern.
Only clear and decisive action by the international community as a whole can put an end to it: the arms embargo; the control of diamond trafficking; the deployment of a rapid intervention force, under the mandate of the United Nations; and the prosecution of the perpetrators of crimes against humanity, the savage attacks against civilians, against international peace and security as well as against the United Nations forces.
The European Union must therefore support all these types of measures, within the framework of the CFSP.
Mr President, during the Sierra Leone debate in December, I, together with a few other delegates, warned against the risks involving the Lomé peace agreement.
His strategy is very much akin to that of his godfather, Charles Taylor, in neighbouring Liberia, who, by means of terror, forces the population to vote for him in the forthcoming presidential elections and establishes a new Mafia state in the heart of Africa' s diamond industry.
The UN peacekeeping force, mainly comprising ill-trained third-world troops, is in danger of heading for a fiasco similar to those back in Somalia, Rwanda and Srebrenica.
It is a good sign that the rebel leader was arrested yesterday and that more than 200 UN peacekeeping troops were released over the past couple of days.
More than anything, however, an embargo should be imposed on diamonds smuggled illegally from the country, estimated at USD 60 million annually, which is what is at stake for the rebels in their warfare.
I will call for a ban on these precious stones, which are stained with blood from thousands of innocent citizens, in my own country, Belgium.
Mr President, given the threats once again faced by the people of Sierra Leone, when they still have vivid memories of the horror and barbarity they have suffered at the hands of the RUF, we cannot content ourselves with simply condemning the events which are recurring.
Let us remember that amongst the objectives of the common foreign policy are the maintenance of peace and the respect for human rights, principles which are being totally disregarded today in Sierra Leone.
This Parliament must therefore urge the Member States to support the call of the Secretary-General of the United Nations so that the deployment of a rapid intervention force may proceed in order to re-establish stability in Sierra Leone and thereby contribute to preventing the danger of a new civil war which today hangs over that country.
However, our commitment must not end with this call.
The best tribute we could pay to those people who, through that declaration, sowed the seed which has borne such abundant fruit in terms of peace and well-being, would be to commit ourselves to the cause of that beleaguered country, to decisively help the people of Sierra Leone to re-establish peace and, through peace, the full respect for human rights and the possibility of economic development which will lead it out of poverty and allow it finally to live in dignity.
Politically speaking, in Europe, Mr Chris Patten and Mr Solana are two people from the European Union whom, in the event of foreign security conflicts, we can call on to use their political resourcefulness to both intervene in the region and to support the UN.
With everything which has been said about diamond trafficking and the halting of other dealings which finance the local war, and with everything which has been said about the need to intervene, what we need at the end of the day is a political solution.
Mr President, Commissioner, any woman or man who, at any time in the course of the last few months, has bought any diamonds must have felt concerned that these might have come from Sierra Leone or Angola and must have wondered whether, in buying them, they had financed the mutilation of children or the drugging of child soldiers or had supported the abduction of the latter from UNICEF' s rehabilitation camps.
The other thing we should learn from this is that the Lomé peace agreement was imposed from outside by outsiders and was totally unworkable.
As with the oil of Congo-Brazzaville, Angola or Nigeria and the mineral resources of Chad, Niger or the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and as in the latter generally or in Angola, Liberia and Sierra Leone, the causes are indeed economic and the fight for control of the diamond-producing areas is the basis and reason for this continuing conflict.
However, the Sierra Leone army and its militias should also come in for criticism.
We are right to condemn Liberia and Burkina Faso for their involvement in the arms trade and the recycling of diamonds.
We remain convinced that the Lomé agreement still offers the best chance for lasting peace in Sierra Leone.
The Commission is aware of the reports concerning the involvement of neighbouring countries, in particular Burkina Faso and Liberia, in the smuggling of diamonds and in providing support to the rebels in Sierra Leone.
The Commission stresses the role to be played by regional organisations, for example ECOWAS, in the prevention of conflicts.
The Commission is financing with EDF regional funds the ECOWAS conflict-prevention mechanism, which could provide an appropriate channel for dialogue on this question.
As regards humanitarian assistance, through ECHO we are continuing to finance programmes in support of displaced and refugee communities through international NGOs.
Since the beginning of 1999, ECHO has provided some EUR 14m of assistance, covering the supply of medical aid, therapeutic feeding, water and sanitation and psychosocial support to children affected by war.
This month the Commission will be seeking approval for a new EUR 12m programme of assistance to Sierra Leone, principally covering refugees and the internally displaced.
This programme will concentrate on providing support first to refugees in neighbouring Guinea and Liberia, second to internally displaced populations and, thirdly, to women and children affected by the war and, of course, the amputees.
For me the most interesting point to come out of this debate was not just the expressions of concern about the situation in Sierra Leone - one would expect that - but the number of honourable Members who have expressed very clearly and cogently their views on the diamond trade.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 6 p.m.
The resolution sends out a powerful message.
The parties have to get round the table and reach a reasonable solution that will last.
This legitimate interest should not interfere with the work that has already been carried out by the Indian and Norwegian governments whose representatives have been engaged for some time now in the difficult and sensitive task of brokering negotiations.
I know that in spite of the dreadful atrocities that have been committed against the civil population and against members of successive administrations, the Sri Lankan government at the highest levels is willing to enter into negotiations and is setting no conditions.
We must all recognise the overriding importance of maintaining the territorial integrity of Sri Lanka.
The international community, including the EU, should be ready to provide substantial material support in due course for whatever solution is worked out and to assist the economic and social reconstruction of the country after so many years of conflict.
This is a scourge which affects us all.
Inevitably, the people most effected and most helpless in these situations are the nationals of the target country who have fled the conflict and are trying to lead new lives in Europe.
These people are most vulnerable to threats and intimidation from organisations acting on behalf of terrorists such as the Tamil Tigers.
This situation must change.
The issue of the place of the Tamils in Sri Lanka is a long-standing problem dating back to at least the year of independence in 1948.
These are well documented by organisations such as Amnesty and the US Department of State in its 1999 Country Report.
It is clear that thousands of people have been displaced within Sri Lanka.
Thousands more have sought asylum and the whole population lives in fear of violence.
The resolution is clear.
Northern Ireland is a clear example of the difficulties of such a process, but also the possibilities.
The situation would also be helped by agreement between the Sri Lankan political parties themselves and we welcome the efforts of the Norwegian and other governments and feel that the Commonwealth could have a very valuable role to play in this situation.
Mr President, this is an historic day and an historic debate because, after 17 years of war in Sri Lanka, the European Parliament for the first time is actually debating how to bring peace to this war-torn island.
In 1948, when Sri Lanka obtained independence, it was one of the most prosperous countries in South Asia.
Forty-eight years later, that beautiful island of Sri Lanka has been smashed by a terrorist group now recognised as the most powerful terrorist organisation in the world.
There are four million Tamils in Sri Lanka and there are 15 million Sinhalese.
I ask Member States to proscribe this terrorist organisation and to help build peace and stability in Sri Lanka and strongly support the initiative currently being taken by the Norwegian and Indian governments.
Mr President, here we are again witnessing a conflict between two diametrically opposed parties.
On the other hand, in the same geographical area, we have also witnessed another conflict, the conflict of East Timor and, with far too great a delay, Parliament declared itself in favour of the independence of the eastern part of the Island of Timor.
The people decided their future and, although this involved fighting, conflict and so forth, succeeded in obtaining what they wanted.
Mr President, I yield to no one in my desire for peace in Sir Lanka and in my condemnation of all violence.
I know that Tamil people need 11 pages of documents just to travel from Batticaloa in the east to the capital, Colombo.
And like everyone here in this Parliament, and all European journalists, I have been unable to go to Jaffna recently, nor have I seen any television coverage of the battle at Elephant Pass.
This is a government whose defence budget has risen by 11% in a year and which, one day, will have to answer allegations of involvement in the assassination of leading Tamil figures and other human rights abuses.
Let us have a peace for all Sri Lankans, based on citizens' rights, humanity and in which government resources are directed at building communities, not helping to destroy them.
Mr President, the Commission is as concerned as honourable Members about the tragic and dramatic civil war which has been continuing for the past 17 years, a civil war which seriously affects the whole population of Sri Lanka.
It is salutary to recall that over 60 000 people have been killed during the course of this conflict - people in both ethnic groups.
We appreciate the efforts being made in Sri Lanka to reach a peaceful solution to the conflict but we also reiterate, as I am sure all honourable Members would, our concerns for the respect of the basic rules of international humanitarian law.
I should like to say in passing that I would like to express my own appreciation of the role played by the Norwegian government, which regularly reminds us by its behaviour on the international stage what we are all missing in the European Union on account of the Norwegian people' s referendum decision.
The presidency declaration also rightly called on the government to lift as soon as possible the restrictions on civil liberties and press freedom, which have been introduced under the emergency regulations.
As for our support for rehabilitation in the north and east of the island, a viable political solution has to be found and a measure of peace established before we could consider a major role in this process.
The European Commission will continue to provide emergency humanitarian aid to populations affected by the conflict.
Through our delegation in Colombo, we are following closely the impact of the situation on the civilian population and we are in permanent contact with the ICRC, the UNHCR and the main NGOs.
Alas, 12, 13 years later, the violence continues.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 6 p.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, we must be very careful as Europeans about taking issue with separatist movements of the kind being discussed here.
Nevertheless, it is, of course, our task to create peace and stability in this area, and in particular to take action against all those criminals who, on a political pretext, have, in the most appalling way, kidnapped and maltreated innocent tourists who are citizens of the European Union.
It is the case of Equatorial Guinea, one of so many African countries which have undergone a very poor transition from the colonial era, during which former colonial relationships, on the one hand, and the ambitions of other Member States of the Union to extend their area of influence, on the other, have prevented the support necessary and conducive to the establishment of a genuine democratic system.
In 1999 there were general elections to the Guinean Parliament, during which the international observers noted that human rights, democratic guarantees and freedom of information had been violated.
The same situation may now reoccur during the elections on 28 May, which is why, as this resolution states, we demand the appropriate intervention of the European Union, in order to guarantee that democratic elections take place on this occasion.
Mr President, the reason for this resolution has already been explained: in Equatorial Guinea, the political and social situation is still extremely serious.
Secondly, the population endures harsh conditions of poverty.
The government of President Teodoro Obiang has failed to comply with each and every promise of democratisation which it made to the international community.
With regard to the municipal elections of 28 May, there are grounds for concern, because to date there has been no guarantee of any democratic conditions for these elections.
Given this situation, as the resolution we have presented indicates, we demand that the government of Equatorial Guinea initiate a genuine transition to democracy, which we believe could begin by making these municipal elections free elections.
The Union must exert pressure in this respect, and not lower its guard or accept any more false promises from President Obiang.
Article 5 of the Lomé Convention obliges the Union and the Member States to demand democracy and human rights in Equatorial Guinea.
Mr President, the calling of municipal elections by President Obiang should constitute a step forward on the path to democratisation in that country and, therefore, we should take a positive of view of it.
Even more so if we bear in mind that the President of Guinea is one of the signatories of the Cairo declaration and the action plan which accompanies it, which recognises the need to consolidate democratic principles, based on the right of all citizens to choose their leaders freely by means of free elections and, consequently, also the need to ensure that elections are transparent and free, and to adopt the necessary means for their effective observation.
However, the experience of previous elections, during which serious irregularities and a total lack of transparency were noted, as well the continuing lack of democratic guarantees in Guinea, requires not only that we observe very carefully how the coming elections are held, but also that we demand, forcefully, that President Obiang adopts the necessary measures to guarantee fair play in these elections.
They could also lead to a rapprochement with the European Union and the granting of the aid which the European Union was prepared to give in the event that democracy was respected.
Therefore, as a Parliament, we have the obligation to exert pressure on President Obiang and demand that he allows these elections to be held in accordance with democratic principles.
The European Union must, through all possible channels, demand that the Government of Equatorial Guinea free all political prisoners and end the coercion suffered by the democratic forces, in order to guarantee that the coming municipal elections bring hope to the people of Guinea and lead to fruitful relations between Guinea and the European Union.
Iran (press code) The struggle in Iran for reform and freedom is of great interest.
There have been considerable reasons for optimism in the election of President Khatami and the overwhelming vote for reformist candidates in the February elections but, as Human Rights Watch notes, the struggle to control the press is, in many ways, the struggle to control the future direction of the Islamic Republic as a whole.
The very success of the reformist agenda seems to have provoked a backlash by the conservative reactionary forces and an attempt to punish the majority who voted in February for reform.
The name 'Bahar' clearly refers to a political programme and undeniably supports President Khatami' s reform policy.
The reform process in Iran is at risk.
Burma Mr President, it is an awkward situation, this tenth anniversary of the elections of the NLD in Burma.
These relations are too important for this.
Yesterday, we saw the arrest of 95 members of the NLD and the situation in Burma has become untenable.
One of the key things we need to look at is the role of some European multinational oil companies, in particular the French-Belgium company, Total Fina.
The British government has actually called on Premier Oil to withdraw from Burma.
The French government should follow the example of the British government.
It is unacceptable that European multinational companies are investing in and backing up a system where large-scale gross violations of human rights are taking place.
When it comes to sanctions, we really need to answer the call that we should implement economic sanctions against the SPDC and that we should be ending all links between Europe and Burma based on trade, investment and, in particular, tourism.
It is unacceptable that we should be investing in tourism in a situation where gross human rights violations are taking place, where people' s lives and liberty have basically been denied.
Thousands of people have been killed and hundreds of thousands of people have fled the country and are living in camps in Thailand, Malaysia and India.
Burma should not receive any better treatment from the international community than South Africa and Chile did back in the Eighties.
This resolution looks at the security and safety arrangements ahead of Euro 2000 so that decent football-loving supporters from across Europe can go to, watch and come away from football games this summer without fear or concern for their safety: a fairly apt thing to call for considering the recent events in Copenhagen.
However, I do understand that there are some queries about the question of the suitability of the Charleroi stadium and its ability to safely host the England versus Germany game on 17 June.
This stand, like all the others, will be full to capacity on 17 June.
I understand the regional pride of many members from Belgium and I do not question that much time is being spent by the organisers of Euro 2000 looking into the safety and security aspects of the competition.
Mr President, I hope there will be a great football match on 17 June between England and Germany.
For example, paragraph 2 of the motion is wrong.
It is therefore completely wrong to talk of regional rivalries.
Finally, in the context of Euro 2000, there is an additional requirement that the stadium must be approved by the European Union and UEFA.
Our Dutch colleague, Mr van den Berg, also agrees as he asked me to say that in this case he has witnessed, in addition to a responsible attitude from the Belgians,... ...
Mr President, there are a number of advantages to this text.
I must also point out, however, that, for two years now, in both the Netherlands and Belgium, the sporting, political and police authorities have been preparing in a professional manner for Euro 2000 and, in practical terms, huge investments have been made.
Of course, but then there is always a risk.
The Belgian authorities have given authorisation for the Charleroi stadium to be used.
Paragraph 3, which indicates that the King Baudouin stadium in Brussels might be used, is wrong.
Mr President, there is no question in my mind that we all want to see the eradication of hooliganism in football at a European level and globally.
The issue must, therefore, be discussed at a European level, and we should guard against becoming embroiled in local discussions on the capacity and safety of specific stadiums, wherever they might be.
I welcome the dialogue under way now between the Commission and sports and football clubs on how matters could improve.
Mr President, we must take these issues of hooliganism seriously.
The motion is good in that it indicates that adequate safety measures must be taken.
It would have been much better to point out - and I would like to do so on behalf of many PPE-DE colleagues - that, first of all, safety is an essential good over which extreme care is to be taken and for which many efforts are being made with regard to Euro 2000.
I do hope that this match finishes in a sportsmanlike way and I hope that the Belgians will not just win here but also a number of matches during Euro 2000.
The content of the current resolution overlooks the causes of hooliganism, whether or not consciously.
This Parliament should not be discussing safety during one particular Euro 2000 match under pressure from what I assume is a portion of British public opinion.
The Commission shares the honourable Members' concern for the health and safety of the hostages in Jolo and Basilan.
We are following events in Mindanao and the neighbouring islands closely.
We are concerned at the escalation of political violence that has taken place after the suspension of the peace negotiations between the government of the Philippines and various armed groups.
We believe that only an early resumption of peace negotiations, as requested by the leaders of civil society and of religious groups, offers prospects for a lasting improvement of the situation in Mindanao.
An official request for an electoral monitoring mission was sent on 2 May by the Equatorial Guinea government to Commissioner Nielson.
The request from the government of Guinea-Bissau arrived very late and, in keeping with our guidelines, electoral observation missions should be prepared at an early stage in the electoral process so that we can ensure that the process is accurate and fair.
It is relevant that the opposition parties in Equatorial Guinea have contested the electoral lists and have already decided to boycott the ballot.
We therefore consider that, at this stage, the presence of international observers would not only fail to improve the quality and the transparency of the local elections, there is also a very real risk that this mission could be misused by local authorities as a way to legitimise an unsatisfactory process.
However, we intend to involve ourselves in promoting the process of democratisation in Equatorial Guinea.
On Iran, the Commission fully shares Parliament' s concern over the lack of freedom of expression there.
In the comprehensive dialogue between the European Union and Iran, questions regarding human rights, including press freedom, are regularly raised by the Commission.
We deplore the continued violation of human rights by the Burmese military regime.
We have strongly supported the EU common position on Burma and the decision of the April 2000 General Affairs Council to strengthen that common position.
We use every opportunity to press our Asian partners to urge, what is called - with a touch of George Orwell - the "State Peace and Development Council" to enter into a substantial dialogue with the democratically elected representatives and the ethnic minorities with a view to arriving at a mutually agreed internal solution to the problems of Burma and to respect for international human rights standards there.
Lastly, on football hooliganism: the responsibility for ensuring adequate safety for spectators and players during the Euro 2000 matches lies with the relevant national authorities and the relevant football associations.
Firstly, we want Parliament to recall that, last June, the Justice and Home Affairs Council requested Member States to step up cooperation in order to prevent and control violence and disturbances in connection with international football matches.
Secondly, the Community' s programme for police and customs cooperation finances a project prepared between the police authorities of the Netherlands and Belgium in which police forces from other Member States participate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 6 p.m.
Thank you, Mr Sturdy.
The matter of football hooliganism was under the human rights matters.
Mr President, I quite understand that you want to avoid a long debate now, but I do not think it was clear when we decided on this this morning that the urgencieswould simply go by the board.
We were going to discuss Guatemala.
Everyone is entitled to protection from those seeking political and economic gain from discrimination.
The Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left has opted in favour of maximum reinforcement of the position of the victims of discrimination and against all attempts to prejudice this protection.
Mr President, I voted for the proposal for the race directive.
I did so very willingly and, particularly in my capacity as representative of the Pensioners' Party, I am glad to have been able to use my vote to contribute to the adoption of this directive.
The effect of such a provision would be all the more devastating as the assumed discrimination could be 'indirect discrimination' which occurs, according to Article 2(2)(b), 'where an apparently neutral provision, criterion or practice is liable to affect adversely a person or a group of persons of a particular racial or ethnic origin' .
The European Parliament report adds to this in all respects.
However, two interventions by Mr Désir highlighted that the texts, at least in the French version, contained provisions totally contrary to the principles of international law and, in particular, to the European Convention on Human Rights.
If retained in the final version of the directive, this article would, for the first time, constitute a legal basis for discrimination in the right to work based on 'a characteristic related to racial or ethnic origin' .
We were anxious to accompany our vote with this reservation which also applies to the totally inappropriate use in several articles, in the French version at least, of the word 'race' .
For example, in my own region, the West Midlands, we have recently seen some worrying instances of racist violence.
I am also glad that the legislation takes account of the notion of "indirect discrimination" , where apparently neutral provisions can have an adverse effect on a person or a group of a particular race or ethnic origin.
Right-wing extremism is increasing, not just in Austria, but throughout Europe.
This directive provides some of the most effective anti-racism legislation that Europe has ever seen, and the most effective piece of race relations legislation to affect my own Member State since the 1976 Race Relations Act.
Minority groups must be given a greater stake in Europe.
We must tackle racism wherever and whenever it occurs.
We were delighted to do so, because the European Parliament is hereby complying with its task in connection with implementing Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
According to Article 13 of the Treaty, the European Parliament is merely to be heard on this matter.
We have nonetheless been unable to vote in favour of those amendments directly affecting matters which come within the sphere of the Member States' criminal law.
But what about all the other protective considerations listed in Article 13 of the Treaty?
We are concerned that, by only proceeding on the basis of these two considerations in the present directive, the EU will, in practice, create a hierarchy of possible grounds for discrimination.
The Portuguese Presidency is to be congratulated for their readiness to put this matter on the Council' s agenda.
With Mr Deprez and Mr De Clercq I tabled an amendment to the title of the directive.
The concept of origin is fundamental as discrimination may relate not only to the current status of an individual but also to his origin and descent.
To conclude, the Buitenweg report is inspired by a proactive and progressive approach which I have supported.
The risk of a resurgence of the neo-fascist and racist hydra requires close vigilance from us, more so now than ever before.
Trafficking in women (continuation) The next item is the continuation of the debate on trafficking in women.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on the magnificent work she has carried out on such a serious problem.
The trafficking in women is having a very great impact, especially in the border countries of the European Union, where mafias are forming which deceive women with promises of employment and a better life, and which lead them eventually into prostitution and, in many cases, into situations which can only be described as slavery.
This is a phenomenon related to our current society, in which immigration is beginning to cause a serious problem, since we are seeing significant movements of people who are seeking the kind of welfare society which we enjoy in the majority, or practically all, of the European Union countries.
This situation requires a series of new measures, most importantly aiding victims and prosecuting the people involved in the trafficking in women and children - since it is not just a problem for women, but children as well - for sexual exploitation.
Amongst the measures proposed in this report are basically aid to victims and the request that Member States amend their legislation in a way which will allow quicker and more coordinated action amongst the various countries in order to resolve this very serious problem.
The victims do not only require material aid, but also legal assistance - because we are generally talking about people with no documentation, with no options and who are living in fear and need help - which, at the same time, protects their identity and guarantees that they will not suffer even worse problems if they return to their countries of origin.
The different countries of the European Union must harmonise their legislation in this respect and implement sufficient measures to help these victims.
The trade in sex is increasing at an alarming rate.
The European women' s lobby reports that only 0.036 per cent of the EU' s budget for the year 2000 has been set aside for issues of equality and that only a fraction of this fraction goes on measures to combat trafficking in women.
There is a lack of legislation, not only in terms of measures to combat the aforesaid mafia, but also in terms of laws to protect the victims.
All but two Member States send victims of the trafficking in women back to their countries of origin, in spite of the possibility that their lives may be in danger.
The Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities is demanding that the Member States provide women who give evidence with protection and refugee status.
We assume that this Treaty will contain a clear legal basis for combating all forms of violence against women, including, of course, trafficking in women, and that we shall be devising a common European policy for combating the trade in human beings.
It is a serious matter that we should have this type of trade, because it is often not even adult women who are affected but near-children and very, very young people.
After all, as long as the demand for prostitutes is still there, there will always be women who, enticed by better prospects presented to them, will - often unwittingly - make themselves available as merchandise.
In addition to a sound and generous development policy in order to improve the living conditions of women in our own countries, it is necessary to question the lack of moral standards within our society.
Only in this way can trafficking in women be effectively pushed back.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 1996, we more or less got the political go-ahead to tackle trafficking in women at European level, and I am delighted to tell you that the then Belgian government played a vital role in bringing about this green light.
But I think we need to ask ourselves whether, after four years of work, Europe is sufficiently equipped to be able to fight this trafficking in women effectively.
A second point which is essential to us in this report - and we have been hammering on about this for a while now - is the fact that we need to continue to be committed to the protection of women who are the victims of such types of trafficking.
The body and the human person are not commodities.
A closed border policy prompts immigrants to turn to criminal organisations in order to procure visas or enter the country concerned illegally.
It was proposed that the European Union issue temporary residence permits to victims which would be conditional upon the victims giving evidence against the traffickers, but, as yet, Italy is the only State to issue permits which are not conditional upon the giving of evidence.
It is our duty to do our part to bring about a radical change in the mentality and culture of our society.
This means promoting policies which support women.
Mr President, if we are to discuss trafficking in women, we have to be aware that we are talking about a form of slavery, a modern form of slavery in which the majority of the victims are women subjected to trafficking run by organised crime networks.
The poverty and marginalisation of the women in their countries of origin, the high earnings guaranteed to traffickers and the low risks they incur, and the substantial demand for women for prostitution and other forms of sexual exploitation are the factors behind the growth of this trade.
The Tampere European Council recently charged the European Union to fight against illegal immigration and, amongst other things, against those who profit from the trafficking in human beings.
The contribution of non-governmental organisations in revealing the causes, methods and consequences of the trafficking in women for sexual exploitation, and the support they provide for the victims, has brought about greater awareness of these issues.
The STOP and DAPHNE programmes already represent a major contribution of the European Union, but we must not stop there.
As the report requests, it will therefore be necessary to establish a legal framework and effective prevention, protection and victim support measures at European level.
On the other hand, the Member States and candidate countries must intervene themselves at legislative, administrative and police levels in order to eliminate this crime and, at the same time, increase international cooperation with Europol and Interpol to fight criminal networks.
The Union and the Member States currently have no powers whatsoever to intervene efficiently and break up the gangs operating almost undisturbed in our midst and in our neighbourhoods.
I personally advocate therefore that all the strategies used to fight trafficking in and the sexual exploitation of women and children should call for harsh punishment, both for those who profit from the trade in human beings and for those who use the services of prostitutes, as is the case under Swedish and Canadian law.
Women are being held in concentration camps in conditions of true slavery and are being tortured before being forced into prostitution.
Before going into the more substantial parts of this subject, I would like to state that the Commission remains fully committed to keeping the fight against this degrading form of violation of human rights and human dignity high on the political agenda.
We have proved that in the proposals that we put to the European Council of Tampere last October.
As several Members have already emphasised, preventive and repressive measures, as well as measures to support the victims, together with international cooperation, must be given further encouragement.
I wish first of all to address the matter of improving existing penal law in the Member States as regards the criminalisation of traffickers of human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation.
As a starting point in this exercise, we have here the February 1997 instrument, but it has become quite clear that it has its shortcomings.
As I understand, during the hearing in August, the Commission will present at the end of this semester a package of proposals on trafficking and the sexual exploitation of women and children.
We have, in my opinion, a firm basis for this in the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Vienna Action Plan of 1998 and the conclusions of the European Council in Tampere.
In addition, we need to consider in the drafting exercise horizontal judicial issues such as defining the competent jurisdiction, the rules on extradition and seizure of the proceeds of crime.
The package of proposals that I mentioned before will, therefore, be completed a bit later this year with a proposal for a directive that will cover the issue of temporary residence permits so as to ensure the protection of various victims of trafficking including the victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation.
It is extremely important to couple these two kinds of measures: criminalisation of trafficking and, at the same time, having a proactive policy on promoting the cooperation of the victims with the police and with the judiciary in convicting those who are responsible for such degrading activity.
Talking about significant developments in the field of trafficking in women at European level, we also need to take a look at the various activities that are, and have been, supported by the STOP programme.
The proposal will, of course, build on experience gained from the first programme.
The programme will allow us, in addition to the STOP programme, to help victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation by providing a financial contribution of EUR 20 million in the period from 2000 to 2003.
The Commission has, therefore, opened DAPHNE to the candidate countries and will do the same under the STOP Programme.
Finally, the Commission has also mobilised other sources of financing to promote both support to local NGOs in the candidate countries and prevention campaigns in countries of origin.
In the framework of the new Transatlantic Agenda and in cooperation with the government of the United States of America, it has, for instance, carried out various information campaigns in Poland, Ukraine, Hungary and Bulgaria, to raise an awareness within the population and the public bodies of these countries.
For the future we are exploring the possibility of new campaigns targeting new areas and new countries.
The Commission is now actively participating in the work on the draft United Nations protocol on trafficking to supplement the draft convention on trans-national organised crime and I sincerely hope that the members of the United Nations will be able to adopt this new convention in autumn this year.
This means that we need to be careful when talking about measures such as automatic non-criminalisation of victims of trafficking, possibilities of NGOs bringing court action on behalf of the victims and investigative methods in criminal matters.
In other words, we need to be clear about which objectives can be better achieved at European level taking into account the level of cross-border cooperation in place among the Member States.
Honourable Members have an opportunity of adapting what I consider a piece of good work that not only confirms a coherent and multidisciplinary European policy on trafficking but also adds new impetus for further actions which are undoubtedly necessary at European level.
That concludes the debate.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m.
The initiative does not show any strategic vision.
Priority is given in the proposal for a regulation to send back foreigners illegally present on the territory of Member States under a system of compulsory readmission operating between Member States.
The regulation aims to determine which Member State is obliged to readmit a third country national in order to implement the agreement in question.
The draft regulation does not debar a Member State from sending a foreigner who does not meet the conditions of entry or residence in a Member State back to his or her country of origin or another third country.
This provision seems to empower Member States to take more severe decisions outside the scope of the proposed regulation.
The proposal is perhaps a way of exercising indirect pressure for the borders of the European Union to be fortified.
The regulation permits readmission to another Member State to be requested within six months from the time when the authorities of the requesting Member State became aware that a third country national may be (not "is" ) illegally present.
We urgently need to implement the Tampere conclusions and devise a common European policy on asylum and immigration based on European humanitarian values and respect for fundamental human rights.
Finally, we call on the European Commission to take the necessary legislative initiatives on all the issues which touch on immigration and, of course, to define the mutual obligations as between the Member States.
We are aware, Commissioner, of your personal interest and of the difficulties facing the Council and assure you that any initiatives which you may table in this direction will have our undivided support.
Furthermore, as Mrs Karamanou has just said, this represents a programme singularly lacking in solidarity between the Member States.
Mr President, we are facing a situation which is real problem: the progressive disappearance of internal borders means that non-EU citizens in both legal and illegal situations are moving freely amongst the Member States.
My view of the Finnish initiative is much less critical than theirs.
I believe we should stress the fact that the Finnish initiative was a very significant step forward from the moment it was put on the table, because it led the Council to get involved in a very urgent issue.
The thinking behind the Finnish initiative means that its proposals no longer have any point, because they have now been fully adopted.
For the reasons which have been expressed, and which I would probably just be repeating: this initiative takes account of one aspect, the most repressive one, but that is only one aspect of the problem.
The rapporteur is absolutely right to point out that this initiative does not take account of questions of procedure, or fundamental guarantees for the procedure, nor does it provide the necessary protection for the fundamental rights of those people who will be caught up in this type of procedure.
Finally, it has not been pointed out - and I think it is important that it is - that what we do in this area must be coherent with the Member States' principles regarding readmission of third country nationals.
The PPE has presented two amendments which I hope this House - to take up what the two previous speakers have said - will support in tomorrow' s vote, thereby sending a political signal, and we ask the Commission to present a complete and coherent text sooner rather than later.
I would also like to say on behalf of my Group that we fully support the proposal to refer this initiative back.
I would also like to touch upon another problem connected with this, which might perhaps warrant a joint initiative by the Member States.
It is all too reminiscent of Austria' s initiative on that famous first day of Austria' s Presidency.
I regret that the Council' s and Parliament' s time has been used in this way.
Mr President, the Karamanou report asks the European Parliament to reject the Finnish proposal to establish, within the European Union, a system for returning illegal immigrants to the Member State responsible.
According to this initiative, a Member State which arrests illegal immigrants in its territory could return them to the Member State through which they entered, with the expectation that the latter would probably return them to the third country from which they originally came.
Thirdly, it shows the usefulness - whatever the previous speakers may have said - of the Member States' right of initiative which the Treaty of Amsterdam retained as a transitional measure in matters relating to immigration and the movement of people.
In these areas, it is important that the national governments, which are still closer to the people than the Commission, should retain a full right to make proposals and, of course, decide on these.
However, this initiative is disliked by the federalists who would prefer a less intergovernmental and more Community-based approach, in other words granting more power to the Commission and the European Parliament.
Mr President, the Commission would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report.
So the Commission can subscribe to the approach of the rapporteur and, apparently, the large majority in Parliament, in the sense that this initiative, as it stands - and I am not passing judgement on the intention behind it - is unacceptable.
That concludes the debate.
