Energy statistics (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Turmes, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy statistics - C6-0035/2007 -.
This proposal for a regulation is the result of a request from the European Parliament to the Commission to make a legal commitment to provide European citizens with data on energy at European level periodically and at appropriate times.
In addition, energy statistics are a very dynamic field and the proposal for a regulation picks up the European Parliament's desire for statistics on energy efficiency and renewable energy to continue to evolve.
Therefore, allow me to conclude this presentation by thanking the protagonists in this process and especially the European Parliament rapporteur for their support in drawing up this legal basis, which will enable us to have transparent data on energy in the European Union in the future.
Today it is USD 105, so, in order to cope with the energy challenge - whether in respect of climate change, the oil shortage, our geopolitical dependence at the root of the situation, our economic vulnerability faced with the volatility of oil prices, or gas prices - I believe there is greater urgency than ever to introduce a European energy policy.
From 2020, at 20%, renewable energies will be the leading energy source in Europe.
I would like to thank Mrs Trautmann, Mrs Hall and Mrs Korhola for the work carried out.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Turmes for his excellent work as rapporteur and for his close cooperation with colleagues.
On 26 February 2008, Eurostat published a set of statistical indicators for energy, transport and the environment.
In the case of energy we find indicators for energy reliance, energy intensity, energy sources, final energy consumption, renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy prices.
Amendment 14 also refers to time savings due to the use of information technology in data collection and processing.
Amendment 5 outlines the necessity of security in the supply of the most important fuels and the availability of exact data at European level, supplied in due time, in order to anticipate and coordinate the solutions at European Union level in case of possible supply shortages.
It is therefore also important to differentiate in future between financial and product transactions.
The Commission has set up an energy market observatory in DG TREN, so it is important that Eurostat and this new observatory work closely together.
