&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 16&#160;February 2006. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I rise on a point of political importance under Rule&#160;144.
You have accused the President of having leaked a document that was in the hands of no less than 30 people.
I would ask that next time you chose the right rule to invoke in order to raise a point of order, because, if you do not do so, the President will not allow you to speak. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I would like to comment on what Mr&#160;Stevenson has just said.
We will discuss this within our groups, and our discussions will be wide-ranging and all-embracing, but I do want to make it plain – and I will have to ask the services to insert the relevant Rule into the Minutes – that the President, in moving towards these reforms, enjoys the full confidence of the Socialist Group. &#160;&#160; Mr Schulz, we shall look for the appropriate rule, but this is not a call for a vote of confidence in the President, not yet at least, so the Conference of Presidents will continue working, the groups will take part in the debate and the group chairmen will act as spokesmen for their groups’ positions.
This is an important opportunity for us to reflect on the problem of inequality, not just on 8 March, but on every day of the year.
I believe that we must remember the tragic terrorist attack carried out in Spain, which happened two years ago now and which led to the deaths of 192 people, as well as the attack in London in July of last year.
In view of the large number of amendments that have been tabled, combined with the need for a number of split votes, we would like to postpone the vote until Wednesday. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, further to the proposed order of business, I have a request concerning Wednesday.
The speaking times for the Council statement on the summit and for both the Council’s and Commission’s statement and the ensuing debate, are shared out as follows: the Council gets 30 minutes speaking time, the Commission get 20 minutes, and the House as a whole gets 60.
I have just told my group that this is going to spark off squabbles within the groups, since, if I were to get all my experts to speak, I would need more speaking time than has been made available to us.
That afternoon, the time available for speaking to the reports amounts to 50 minutes each for the Council and the Commission, while Mr Brok, the rapporteur, gets five – which is quite utterly inadequate in view of the importance of his report – and all the Members put together get 90 minutes between them.
I therefore ask that, in the first instance, you agree with the institutions on a reduction for Wednesday, and then, in the longer term, I ask that this House should organise our orders of business in such a way that we have a proper amount of time in which to debate important matters among ourselves. &#160;&#160; Mr Schulz, as you know, there are no rules on the speaking time allocated to the other institutions.
I believe that the Commission and the Council have duly noted Mr Schulz’s request.
They can each therefore easily limit themselves to 15 minutes’ speaking time in which to outline their views on the Lisbon Strategy, thus leaving us time for a debate.
Furthermore, this liquidation reminds us of the events that took place in the Isère region with regard to HP and also reminds us that the large groups are doing as they please and are gradually dismantling Europe’s industrial policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I welcome the measure taken last week by the Commission, namely the Green Paper on energy, which I believe has emerged at a most opportune time.
I can promise you, and it gives me no pleasure, that I will speak in this House on every appropriate occasion until every woman and every health professional in Europe is aware of this disease, its symptoms, its effects and the treatment options. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to speak about the second European Day to commemorate the victims of terrorism, which took place on 11&#160;March.
I should like to thank you, Mr President, for the information you gave us on the way in which Parliament marked this date.
I should also, however, like to ask you and the services to approach the Council to ensure that this commemorative day be accorded greater prominence and dignity in all EU Member States.
This is, in my view, very important in the face of this tremendously dangerous threat. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as we have already heard, the parents of Mr&#160;Derwich Ferho, the President of the Kurdish Institute in Brussels and a political refugee in Belgium for the last 28 years, were brutally murdered by perpetrators who, according to the information available, are employed by the Turkish state.
In this context, statements were made by some EU office holders which I found disappointing.
It is possible that there has been a misinterpretation on the part of the Commissioner, and I am sure that that is how she sees it as well.
When I have the opportunity to speak to her, I shall remind her of it, but I do not believe that that is necessary, because I am sure that the Commissioner is perfectly aware of the role that falls to our Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as a Socialist and human rights activist, and simply as a militant opponent of the death penalty, I would like to express to all of you the anguish I feel for the family of Pablo Ibar, a Spanish citizen, whom the Florida courts sentenced to death for murder in 2000.
On 2 February, the Supreme Court of that State lifted the death sentence on the alleged accomplice in the murder, having ruled that there were errors in the previous trial and that the evidence against the convicted men was insubstantial.
Nevertheless, the hopes then raised were dashed on 9&#160;March, when that same Supreme Court confirmed the death penalty for the European citizen, Pablo Ibar.
I would also ask you, Mr President, as well as the Chairman of the Delegation for Relations with the United States, to address the said authorities, on the one hand to reiterate our well-known complete rejection of the death penalty and, on the other, to ask that justice be done in the case of Pablo Ibar, who was unfairly convicted, as appears to be proved by the acquittal of the person who was originally convicted of being the accomplice in the same alleged crime. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the European Union is taking all the necessary measures to combat avian influenza and rightly so.
We should not allow this under any circumstances.
I therefore call for us to demonstrate our solidarity with the industry. &#160;&#160; Mr President, six years ago the pollution of the River Tisza with cyanide, which was caused by gold mining in Baia Mare, Romania, showed us the dangers of gold mining at the heart of Europe.
The situation in Belarus is abundantly clear.
I myself have been to Lvov on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, to support the election campaign of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
I have to say that I was uplifted by what I witnessed.
I saw Ukraine, and I saw many pro-European electoral slogans.
This highlights the potentially enormous importance of what our European Parliament representatives are doing not only in Belarus but also in Ukraine. &#160;&#160; Mr President, so far President Mahmoud Abbas, who is due to address us this Wednesday, has been a big disappointment as President of the Palestinian Authority.
That will mean less money for Iran to build its nuclear weapons. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on 28&#160;February in Brussels four Commissioners – those responsible for enterprise, the environment, competition and energy – presided over the first meeting of a high-level group to look at issues concerning energy, the environment and competitiveness.
It is not therefore a case of there being representatives who did not attend, but rather of representatives not having been appointed to do so. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am happy to take your assurance.
If you had asked for my advice, I would have explained how that system worked.
In addition, we had a hearing in this Parliament about the high-level working group.
The European Union cannot stand idly by whilst the fundamental rights underpinning all civilised societies are infringed.
Such a ban should apply to those responsible for the decision to use force and for directing the activities of the internal security forces.
This sort of action comes within the framework of the anti-communist strategy and is opposed by the overwhelming majority of peoples.
Instead, the Commissioner saw fit to preach to the Polish Government, even though a Dutch bank, the ING, had been very quick off the mark in buying one of the larger Polish banks, .
The Commissioner might have been more usefully employed preaching to the Dutch Government on how to prevent ethnic and racist tension, which is unfortunately fast becoming a fact of life in her country. &#160;&#160; Mr President, you asked that this Parliament should enjoy a greater commitment from its membership.
It conducts business like the Supreme Soviet and the debates here are not debates in any real sense of the word at all.
This essentially is an elaborate democratic fig-leaf and we are all part of a charade. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the extermination, the disgusting murder of the former President of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic, in the detention centre at the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague, which was planned and executed by the imperialists of the USA and the European Union responsible for the war in and the break-up of Yugoslavia, is yet another link in the long chain of crimes against the peoples who stood up against imperialist barbarity.
The people who planned and executed the abduction, imprisonment and trial of Slobodan Milosevic at The Hague, having refused to take measures to protect his life despite his serious health problems, brought about his extermination.
The USA and the European Union set up the travesty of a trial at The Hague in order to redeem their crimes against the Yugoslav people, whom they bombed for 78 days in 1999, purely and simply because Yugoslavia, while accepting the overall Rambouillet agreement, refused to accept the deployment of NATO occupying forces on its territory.
Although they were sentenced to death in 2004, the sentences were a matter of legal contention and have now been suspended.
These people have been subjected to incarceration and torture for seven years, and we now hope that their trial will not be exploited and misused for political ends.
Until such time as they are at liberty, it is our task as parliamentarians to highlight this case and follow its progress closely. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to express to the House my satisfaction and relief at the decision taken by the management of General Motors on 15 February to manufacture the new Opel Meriva model at the Figueruelas factory in Zaragoza, thereby finally putting an end to the risk of the relocation that it has been planning for months for 7&#160;600 workers and many more auxiliary companies.
My question to Commissioner Frattini is whether the Commission intends to find out whether Dutch return policy is in line with the European minimum standards for asylum seekers as laid down by the directive that is required to be implemented by October of this year, and whether it is in line with international agreements. &#160;&#160; The digital television era is supposed to be one of increased competition and an era where consumers have more choice between quality services.
The digital era is supposed to be such that information and entertainment are accessible to all rather than to an increasingly restricted number of people. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I had the honour of receiving a declaration from a group of young people who visited the European Parliament last Thursday.
They came from the Second Chance School, and their message is as follows: ‘We, the young people from across Europe, participating in the E2C youth summit in Copenhagen in June 2005, hereby declare the following: “All young people have the right to make decisions about their life and create their own future.
The virus, which is transmitted by mosquitos, has now already infected 200&#160;000 of the 760&#160;000 inhabitants of the island of Réunion and is thought to be directly responsible for the deaths of five people.
I also speak as a woman supportive of women forced into prostitution.
The fight against trafficking in women and the fight against forced prostitution are a priority for female political representatives too, and are undoubtedly so for Angela Merkel.
Let us reject this instance of decadence and let us make ourselves heard not only here, in the European Parliament, but also in our Member States, at the Council of Europe and in all the fora in which we can make our voices heard.
To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would point out that we can already count on the public support of men in order to combat trafficking in women and forced prostitution.
I am grateful to our colleague, Mr&#160;Coveney who, as a Member of this Chamber, oversees the work of ‘businessmen against trafficking in women’ and the ‘Stop the Traffic’ campaign.
Finally, I call on you all to support the impressive work done by the Council of Europe, which launched the first ‘agreement on the fight against trafficking in human beings’ in Warsaw on 16&#160;May 2005: to date, only 11 of our Member States have signed this agreement.
In the United Kingdom, there is only one safe haven with 25 places.
The United Kingdom and other countries must sign up to the Council of Europe Convention.
That is why I am working in the campaign to give the red card to forced prostitution and I hope all the fans, footballers and sports associations, together with all other organisations, will get behind the campaign to stamp out this evil trade. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, I hope that this resolution will end up right in the back of the net and thereby bring this issue, once and for all, out of the taboo area and into the public eye.
As has already been said, we really do have to be firm in showing people-trafficking and forced prostitution the red card.
We need to do more if women are to be enabled to escape from forced prostitution. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the football World Cup is being held in Germany under the slogan, ‘a time to make friends’.
These women will be enticed to Germany with false promises and then forced into prostitution.
Poverty is one of the main causes of this, and that is where we must start, but making people welcome in Germany must also mean protecting women in need rather than turning a blind eye to their plight.
Up to 800&#160;000 women worldwide fall victim to people-trafficking, and 100&#160;000 of them come from the EU.
What I expect you to do, Commissioner Frattini, is to take the proposals that the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality put forward in the Prets report and in the plan of action against trafficking in women, and use them as the basis for practical action.
To demand special visas for women is to shoot from the hip, and I am not in favour of that, so please give some more careful thought to what you propose to do. &#160;&#160; Madam President, millions of people around the world are delighted at the prospect of the upcoming World Cup football tournament, but how many thousands of women must be sacrificed so that men can not only watch football but also purchase readily available sexual services?
If a sufficient volume of sexual services is to be offered, tens of thousands of women, including many with no choice in the matter, will have to supplement the already large number of prostitutes in Germany.
This trafficking in human beings is shameful and deeply inhumane.
The Swedish legislation has shown that, when demand is reduced, the number of victims of trafficking and prostitution decreases too.
If we accept that men can assume the right to purchase women’s bodies, we are, as a consequence, forced to accept a situation in which approximately four million women and children are moved around, within and between countries, in order to be exploited sexually.
We want to see all women given the right to their sexuality, and on equal conditions and without being oppressed.
Among the most important rules is one that requires the Member States to prosecute those responsible in their countries of origin and not in the country in which they committed their crimes.
Europol can play a very important role in the coordination of European measures to combat these abhorrent types of crime.
It will not, therefore, be necessary to make changes to the current visa system simply because all the non-EU countries that, according to the statistics, are ‘at risk’ are already covered by the visa requirement.
Furthermore, it is clear that, as some of you have suggested, practical victim support measures are crucial.
Another measure that I consider necessary is a comparative study of all of the Member States’ laws on prostitution and on the connection between prostitution – where it is legal – and trafficking in human beings for sexual purposes.
There is clearly a link between the rise in demand and, shall we say, the incentive for traffickers to carry out this shameful activity.
I am personally in favour of the idea of a European day against trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution and, in a few weeks’ time, I intend to organise a technical seminar – which will obviously be open to everyone – for exchanging best practices with a view to preventing this phenomenon.
The century that has just dawned must be the one in which this new form of slavery that is forced prostitution and that each year claims thousands of women and children as victims is banished from our societies.
Our oral questions today follow on from our vote in January and from our action of 8&#160;March, and once again show our indignation.
Mr&#160;Frattini, however strong our protests may be, they are not enough, and you have understood that.
All of the initiatives that you have just mentioned are excellent, but I would draw your attention to the fact that they need to be in place in good time.
For its part, the European Parliament will do everything in its power to help achieve this. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, I am glad that many of the proposals that we incorporated into my report have been adopted.
Last week on 8&#160;March, and again now, Commissioner Frattini announced that an extensive study will be launched this year on how laws on prostitution affect the situation of trafficking in the different Member States.
That study gave us a strong indication that criminalising the demand for trafficking has a very strong impact and that it substantially lowers the number of girls and young women being trafficked.
This kind of licence leads directly to killing, the spread of diseases, drug addiction, prostitution, pornography and other ills.
Genuine freedom makes sense when it is at the service of truth and love.
Legal restrictions are needed. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, I was in Belgium in 1999 and witnessed the treatment meted out to a Polish woman who had been raped by an Albanian.
This woman was ordered to leave the country after she filed a complaint with the police.
Consequently, it is important to grant special status to the victims of violence, rape and forced prostitution, allowing them temporary residence in the country concerned and some financial support. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, trafficking in human beings is without question a fundamental abuse of human rights and one of the most wretched phenomena of the present day world.
According to some analyses, Europeans spend billions of euros for such services and, as a result, demand becomes the driving force of this successful business.
I am looking forward to the strategy and the promised communication on action plans to combat human trafficking which, in my opinion, will offer an appropriate setting for continuing our discussion on these serious matters and for expressing our views. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, in many countries, thousands of women are exploited and forced into prostitution, and the ones subjected to this forced prostitution are mostly young and vulnerable.
These helpless women thus accept this nightmare because they no longer have any choices.
The pimp puts constant pressure on her to encourage her to work.
The victim is forced to hand over her earnings either directly or through a third party.
When they resist the pressure of the traffickers, they, their children or their families are threatened.
This debate concerns all of us, in all of the European countries. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, it is very important that the issue of how to combat the traffic in people, and in women, be debated before the football World Cup kicks off in Germany.
I am delighted that the Commission is prepared to mount a comparative inquiry into the way in which Member States treat prostitution in legal and practical terms and into the impact of that policy.
In this instance, I am sure that this is a proper job offer, but imagine that you live in poverty and your daughter announces that she has the chance, this summer, to travel to Germany, where a super job is waiting for her.
Providing information where people are is where we must start – the Commissioner has referred to the many surveys that have been conducted – but we must make people, whether parents or children, aware of the dangers inherent in every such questionable offer.
We know that there is a spectacular increase in the demand for sexual services during major events like this, and, of course, in the incidence of criminal activities such as people-trafficking and forced prostitution.
Only a very few women and children work without being in a brothel or managed by a pimp.
However, from a legal point of view also, when the victim comes before the courts, how can a distinction be made between forced prostitution and prostitution and how can sanctions be imposed on the person behind them?
It is vital that it be made clear that sports events must be safeguarded in the conscience of all of us as roadmaps of values and cultures.
I believe that the proposals you just mentioned, Mr Frattini, and Mrs&#160;Prets' proposals, lay down a serious framework at European and international level. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr&#160;Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr&#160;Frattini for the attention he has given to the issue of trafficking in human beings.
It is a serious breach of human rights and of the laws on immigration and work, and has a highly detrimental effect on national and international security.
There has been alarming growth in this type of crime, and according to UN figures, it has become the third most lucrative activity in organised crime.
This is a transnational phenomenon that is a major concern for a great many countries, be they countries of origin, transit or destination.
At legislative level, the adoption in 2002 of the framework decision approximating the criminal provisions of the Member States and applicable penalties, and enabling judges from one Member State to issue a European Arrest Warrant relating to criminals involved in the trafficking of human beings was an important step.
The trafficking of women is linked to illegal immigration.
In light of what has already been said, the football World Cup provides the Commission with an opportunity to set a valuable precedent in combating the trafficking and sexual exploitation of women, by means of programmes aimed at the social inclusion and rehabilitation of women, along with legal, medical, psychological and language assistance. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the exploitation of women and children through forced prostitution, on the occasion of and centred around major sports events, is one of the scourges of our times.
At a time when gender equality, freedom of thought and human rights are the focal point of our interest and thoughts, I consider the fact that the open borders of the free and democratic European Union provide the opportunity and offer asylum to organised crime in the form of the forced prostitution of women and children to be an insult.
It is impossible to imagine the forty, fifty or one hundred thousand women and children from throughout the world who will flood the European country in a common action, women and children who, because of their poverty and the inability of world public opinion to address the problem, will be sacrificed at the altar of commercial sex as prostitutes.
I should like to finish, Commissioner, by mentioning that you proposed 25 March as an international anti-trafficking day during your recent visit to Athens.
I would like to ask you to postpone this by one day, as 25 March is a national holiday in Greece, one of the biggest celebrations in our history.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; People trafficking, or slavery as we used to call it, stamped out by the British Empire with the force of the Royal Navy behind it, is now a sad fact of life under the new Brussels Empire.
I realised immediately that it had a delicate side when I presented my first draft report in the Committee on Regional Development.
Ladies and gentlemen, there are a great many of us in this Chamber – perhaps not this evening, but in general – who were able to note that relocations give rise more often than not to considerable economic consequences for the regions affected.
However, a relocation also means job losses and tragedies for the families that are the victims, and that is something that affects us.
In an initial resolution of 13&#160;March 2003 on the closure of businesses in receipt of EU financial aid, Parliament put its finger on the major risk that relocations represent with regard to the primary objective of regional policy, namely economic and social cohesion.
After having pointed out that regional development policy is aimed at facilitating the development of EU regions and that public aid should not serve to encourage the relocation of economic activities, the report voted on by our Committee on Regional Development goes on to propose the adoption, both at Community and at national level, of measures designed to prevent, on the one hand, the potential negative consequences that relocations might have for economic development and, on the other, the social tragedies caused by these relocations.
They are flexible and perfectly able to mitigate and limit the difficulties created in the regions and for citizens by a company's decision to close and relocate all or part of its economic activity to another Member State or outside the European Union.
To close, I should like to assure you that the Commission will examine carefully every specific proposal which Parliament may present within the framework of debates on future regulations. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the terrible consequences of company relocations in various EU countries, namely increased unemployment, poverty and social exclusion.
It is good news that the Committee on Regional Development, through its rapporteur Mr Hutchinson, has welcomed most of the opinions expressed by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, in particular the inclusion of the social clauses in international treaties based on the International Labour Organisation conventions, thereby ensuring that countries and businesses comply with them, although I personally do not feel that these measures go far enough.
Nevertheless, as we stated in the debate and vote on Parliament’s resolution of 13&#160;March&#160;2003 on closure of undertakings after receiving EU financial aid, the Commission and the Member States must take action to put a stop to this economic and social scourge, which leads only to greater profits for multinationals and economic groups that do not demonstrate any social responsibility.
This debate must produce practical results, whereby the rights of workers are safeguarded and the economic groups with a history of relocations and unemployment no longer receive aid in any Member State.
The Commission, in conjunction with the Member States, must, as a matter of urgency, take on board the opinions of the European Works Councils, draw up and publish a blacklist of businesses and economic and/or financial groups that have used relocations for the purpose of increasing their profits and demand the return of any aid granted.
The rapporteur had to harmonise completely opposing opinions, and deserves our thanks.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has never supported the restrictions on freedoms, such as, in our case, the free movement of capital.
Unfortunately, we have already seen an alarming example of this, not too long ago, in relation with the Services Directive.
There has been a growth in production in countries where the labour market was opened to workers from new Member States, and unemployment levels have actually dropped.
Increasing shareholder revenues are no consolation to employees who lose their jobs because their company relocated to the developing world, or even just to a different region of the European Union.
Therefore, I am certain that while we are searching for new routes and new solutions, we will have to return to the issue of company relocations. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am glad that the rapporteur – after what were at first considerable differences of opinion in the Committee – has succeeded in achieving such a broad compromise on this report.
We must, however, note that, in a free economy, there are, within our very own regions – since relocations sometimes take place within our own countries – differences in wages and technical competitiveness that mean that a company might in fact be led to relocate some of its production plants, whether it is goods or services that they produce.
Finally, let us not forget that, in accordance with the Single European Act of 1986, we have to facilitate the free circulation of goods, persons and services in our Member States.
I am talking about a number of companies that have been faced with this decision.
The fact is that a number of them have managed perfectly well by creating and developing their Research and Development service, by creating new markets and by managing to relocate part of their activities.
The Commission has proposed a period of five years, which I do not think is enough.
The rapporteur called for companies that have received public aid and have then relocated within the EU to be blocked from receiving state aid or structural funding for seven years.
In 2002 Peugeot asked the European Commission to approve a state aid package to build the new 207 model at Ryton in the English West Midlands.
More than two years later, with still no answer forthcoming from the Commission, Peugeot gave up and announced that the 207 would be built in France and Slovakia.
No doubt Brussels saw that as an economic mission accomplished.
In other words, capital is always channelled where it is best appreciated, and will not follow the instructions laid down by Parliament or the Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Parliament obviously does not want in the Hutchinson report to prohibit companies from relocating to other countries.
We, at least the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, know that a company needs to be competitive in order to survive and the individual Member States will need to have a fiscal and general economic environment that attracts investment in the individual Member States.
I also wish to highlight the proposal made in the Hutchinson report in connection with the globalisation fund.
The author of the report had the difficult task of ensuring that the issue of company relocations does not become a further divide between East and West, but a new step towards the unification of Europe.
The work of the rapporteur has led to more balanced proposals, which are mostly able to ensure that the goals of regional policy are met, and they strengthen social and economic security for workers in all twenty-five Member States.
My congratulations to the rapporteur. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to congratulate Mr&#160;Hutchinson on the excellent work he has done: there is clearly a need to implement effective policies designed to counter fiscal dumping among the various Member States.
Firstly, we need to stimulate European production in terms of quality and specialisation.
The Hutchinson report is without doubt a positive step forward.
I must welcome and support the report, given that I agree with most of it, but I would also comment that it is one of the few reports which I have seen by a socialist member of the European Parliament recently which, at long last, appears to have been written by a true socialist. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, as I take the floor in this debate I should like to draw the attention of the House to two important issues.
It is true that relocation results in job losses in certain countries, but only in the short term.
I shall therefore be voting against Mr&#160;Hutchinson’s report. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, as an elected representative of the French region of Nord-Pas de Calais, whose industries – particularly the textile industry – lose thousands of jobs each year, I obviously approve of the proposal designed to demand the repayment of the European aid granted to companies that relocate their factories.
Thus, there are many European directives that give de facto support to relocations between Member States and to the levelling down of social legislation.
In order to have any hope of preserving our jobs and our way of life, we will have to re-establish our commercial borders and introduce a social VAT on imported goods.
Put in plain terms, that means that the consistent way to put the proposal made by the Commission with reference to the Structural Funds is to specify that companies that fail to comply with the conditions attached to public aid, should be required to repay it, without, however, being allowed under any circumstances to receive public subsidy for the new locations and to be barred from support from structural funds or in the form of State aid for a period of at least five years – although seven would be better – from the date of relocation.
This social blackmail is coupled with fiscal blackmail.
In our view, penalising enterprises which have transferred their activities with a ban on receiving EU aid for a period of seven years is unduly restrictive and cannot be justified.
It is hard to understand why EU enterprises are to be prevented from reacting to the needs of the market, when this is in the interests of both consumers and producers.
The fact that basically only the free movement of goods and capital are possible today more or less encourages the relocation of production to areas where costs are lower.
Indeed, regional aid must not distort the rules of the internal market, and European regional policy must not encourage company relocations.
The text makes only a brief mention of the difference between internal and external relocation, and does not pay sufficient attention to the promotion of positive mechanisms that would encourage investors to remain in the EU.
This report is therefore very timely, and I, for my part, should like to pay tribute to the work done by our rapporteur, as well as to the improvements made by the Committee on Regional Development.
This would be the best way of ensuring that economic activities continue in these regions.
This report is proposing the complete opposite, a policy based on fresh barriers against the movement of capital, and that is something I cannot accept under any circumstances.
The issue of European aid versus the free movement of capital within the EU really exists.
These business relocations are happening; they are a normal outward sign of structural change, and the EU should put no legal obstacles in their way.
No entrepreneur will move to another location just for the sake of a single grant; he will do it only if the long-term conditions in the new location are right, and that is why these relocation subsidies result in steering effects, which are precisely what we have to prevent in future, for European structural funds are too valuable for that.
The European Commission recognises and endorses the fact that the problem of relocation and the loss of the relevant jobs is a seriously worrying issue.
The Commission, in agreement with the Member States, made it clear at the last summit at Hampton Court that social protection and the protection of workers' rights are an integral part of European values.
In a global environment, every undertaking takes the final decision to locate or relocate its business activities in an independent manner.
The vote will take place tomorrow. &#160;&#160; We must always remember the objectives of regional development policy: economic, social and territorial cohesion, full employment and social progress.
The economic and social cohesion policy is crucial for safeguarding the citizens’ approval and support of the European Union.
The policy is based on the harmonious and unified development of all the regions of Europe.
To make good the economic and social development gaps in some regions by promoting methods that could cause a lack of development in other regions of Europe would therefore run counter to such an objective.
For this reason, businesses that are based in a Member State and that decide to relocate their activities to another Member State should be unable to take advantage of contributions from the Structural Funds. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on an oral question to the Commission on the Fourth World Water Forum in Mexico City (16 to 22 March 2006) by Roberto Musacchio, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Caroline Lucas and Alain Lipietz, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Glyn Ford, Giovanni Berlinguer and Béatrice Patrie, on behalf of the PSE Group (O-0001/2006 – B6-0003/2006). &#160;&#160; .
Water must be distributed more fairly, but at the same time the quantity of freshwater is falling, year after year, as a result of climate change and the destruction of ecosystems, such as wetlands, forests, shores and rivers.
No new political initiatives or decisions are expected to be taken at the 4th World Water Forum.
The Commission's objective at the 4th World Water Forum is to highlight and promote policies and means agreed between the European Union and other interested parties, such as the European Union water initiative, the ACP-EU water facility and numerous aspects of the Agenda 21 action plan.
In addition, the Commission will provide information on the results of the innovative water technologies of the Community framework research programme and the results of the review of integrated water resource management works.
As far as water management and the internal market are concerned, the Commission may, if it appears necessary, explain the position of the European Union, by which I mean that the current rules in the European Union are neutral on the question of the ownership of water and water companies.
This stance is also reflected in the European Union water initiative.
The figures are alarming: 3&#160;900 children die every day because of a lack of clean water.
These meetings make it possible to define a fairer and more unified world water policy and to ensure that people’s right to water is upheld as a crucial element of human dignity.
In order for this to happen, developing countries must be encouraged to delegate the budgetary resources and the management of water policy to their local authorities.
It is important that due regard be given to process and that high standards of administrative probity are adhered to, especially with so much money involved, but the final evaluation of proposals took place in January this year and 97 proposals were at last selected.
So I would like to know whether we are now on course to provide 10&#160;million more people with access to drinking water by 2010 as planned and, when it comes to the second call for proposals, whether the process will take less time to complete. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, 1.2&#160;billion people have no access to drinking water, and so 15 people die in the world every minute, half of whom are children.
This right must be established by an international treaty.
I hope that the Commission will champion these guidelines at the World Forum in Mexico City. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, you said that no new positions will be taken up at the Fourth World Water Forum.
I should like to say that this year we have started financing the first plans and we shall start the second stage of this financing in June.
We hope and intend that 10 million people will have drinking water in 2010 and 5 million will have access to sanitation services.
I should like to thank you very much for the interest which you have shown and expressed and I hope that, together, we shall be able, in close cooperation, to promote joint efforts on this very important issue to mankind. &#160;&#160; I have received six motions for resolution(1) tabled under Rule&#160;108(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
These response and preparedness actions are currently covered by various financing instruments, such as the action programme or the Community civil protection mechanism.
In such cases, the Community must be in a position to provide assistance to the Member States affected.
The Commission is certain that the European Parliament understands, as the report we are debating today illustrates, the importance of the benefit which derives from these reforms.
Reinforced cooperation in the civil protection sector will result in better protection for the citizens of the European Union and the populations of third countries.
This is the only way to ensure that the Community will be able to provide more coordinated, more effective and more prompt assistance to any country affected by a major emergency. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I agree with Mr Dimas that we need to do more in order to make the way in which the European Union addresses extensive natural disasters, both those which affect Europe itself, such as floods, drought or fires, and other natural disasters beyond our borders, such as the tsunami or the hurricane in Mississippi and Louisiana, stronger and more effective.
The Council must increase the resources available.
The Commission and the Council agree that we also need to be able to find ways of strengthening assistance for addressing emergencies outside the borders of the European Union.
I should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups for the excellent cooperation which we had within the framework of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and which resulted in my report and certain amendments to the Commission's initial proposal being approved almost unanimously, by 49 votes in favour and just one against.
My amendments, which were adopted by the Committee on the Environment and are included in the report, focus on four main points: The first point is the change to the legal basis, which will allow the European Parliament to put things in the right framework and, most importantly, not to confine itself to a purely advisory role, but to be involved in the codecision procedure, so that this institution, which is closer to the European citizens, will then also have the facility to exert greater influence on decision-making.
This also applies to the third point, to the need to extend this instrument and its action to countries outside the European Union, because natural disasters do not recognise borders.
To close, I should like us to use tomorrow's vote to send, with the same assent we had in the Committee on the Environment, a clear message both to the European citizens and to the Council, as we have also done in the past with a series of motions on natural and manmade disasters.
In other words, we need to focus on young people and on education in schools.
I believe that, with these proposals, the regulation adopts a far broader outlook in terms of the management of major emergencies. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, thank you, Mr&#160;Papadimoulis, for your thorough work on this report.
The EU suffered personal tragedies in all cases, as our holiday-makers in Sri Lanka and Thailand were washed away and our friends and families in Pakistan and Kashmir were lost in the rubble.
Experience shows that in the United Kingdom such a rise in wind speed could increase storm damage by 50%, and in the Netherlands a 6% rise in wind speed could result in damage increasing fivefold, because of the liability of flooding.
In other words, ladies and gentlemen, we have to understand that climate protection is a crucial factor in reducing the number of weather-related disasters in future. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to join those who have thanked our fellow MEP, Mr Papadimoulis, and expressed appreciation for his work in drafting this report.
The European Union has recently experienced an increased number of natural, technological and industrial disasters.
I am pleased that my amendments to this report have been accepted.
The main purpose of the Regulation is to protect people, but it is also necessary to specify the nature of this protection, particularly the protection of public health and security.
The Commission must, rather than may, discontinue financial aid and must demand that the funds disbursed be repaid.’ &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for his outstanding work.
What is crucial is that we should do as the rapporteur recommends and alter the legal basis.
What can be said in general terms is that this presents us with an opportunity to respond to the European public’s concerns and questions by providing aid quickly and without bureaucracy.
I would like to conclude by saying that the French statesman Talleyrand’s dictum about the need for not too much zeal is utterly inappropriate in this context; one cannot be zealous enough when it comes to alleviating the consequences of natural disasters. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
In recent years, as other speakers have mentioned, there has been an increase in the number of natural disasters due to, , climate change, damage to the environment and lack of land-use planning.
The terrible natural disasters of the summer of 2005 – significant flooding in Central Europe, severe drought in southern Europe and fires destroying thousands of hectares of forest in my country, Portugal, and in Spain – require appropriate and rapid prevention and response measures in the area of civil protection.
In working meetings with the local, regional and national authorities of the six countries stricken by natural disasters that I visited in my capacity as rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for the initiative report on natural disasters, the call was always for simplification and flexibility; in order to help communities, the Community's emergency response instruments need to be simplified and the rules of application made more flexible.
You have tabled a series of very important amendments which are designed to strengthen civil protection facilities at European level and which concern prevention, the need to safeguard financing for civil protection operations in third countries and effective early warning and alert systems.
The Commission supports most of the proposed amendments.
It is worth noting that its particular aspects, such as the prevention of forest fires or floods, are already covered by special Community financing instruments.
Nonetheless, we recognise the need to strengthen the general aspects of prevention within the framework of civil protection and we therefore gladly include the proposed amendments in the proposed financing instrument.
However, although the Commission can accept most of the proposed amendments, there are some which cause problems and cannot be accepted as they stand.
As the Treaty has no special legal basis for civil protection, Article 308 of the Treaty Establishing the European Community has always been used for this purpose.
The existing civil protection financing instruments, the action programme and the Community civil protection mechanism are based on this article.
In addition, the proposed legal basis refers to environmental protection and public health, whereas civil protection actions also need to cover the protection of people and property, including the cultural heritage.
We had thirteen such interventions and, of course, the two very big crises in South-East Asia with the tsunami, where the European Union was, through the civil protection mechanism, the first to send representatives to the area.
Also, the European Union responded to the destruction caused by hurricane Katrina by providing the assistance which it had proposed three days earlier to the competent authorities in the United States, which is why, of course, we also had the relevant favourable mention from the European Council.
The vote will take place tomorrow. &#160;&#160; The violence of recent natural disasters reminds us how vulnerable our societies are to risks in nature: in 20 years, natural disasters have killed 1.5 million people worldwide.
The EU has made prevention and emergency aid a top priority, by setting up ECHO in 1992, the Dipecho programme in 1996 and the EU Solidarity fund in 2002.
However, the legal basis for this mechanism should be amended to use Article 174, which involves codecision; and the preventative measures should be extended to cover civil protection in third countries and marine pollution.
Finally, the budget for this mechanism must ensure that emergency aid is as effective as possible, in terms of both flexibility and responsiveness, and must increase the visibility of Community solidarity within and outside the EU.
I am pleased to say that there are 52 amendments which the Commission can support fully, in part, or in principle.
These are amendments 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 18, 23, 24, 25, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 43, 44, 45, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 73 and 75.
The Commission cannot accept amendments 2, 3, 4, 13, 14, 15, 19, 20, 21, 22, 26, 27, 35, 42, 46, 53, 54, 63, 64, 65, 71, 72 and 74. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Marios Matsakis, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the Community strategy concerning mercury (2005/2050(INI)) (A6-0044/2006). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, firstly, I wish to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the very constructive cooperation afforded to me in the preparation of this report.
The Community strategy concerning mercury, with its integral approach is, therefore, an important contribution in tackling this global threat.
Of special significance, I feel, is Amendment No. 10, which essentially reintroduces my original Article 17 on dental amalgams.
Article 17 basically asks the Commission to put forward proposals by the end of 2007 to restrict – not to ban immediately – the use of mercury in dental amalgams.
The reason is that it is quite unacceptable, in my view, to continue inserting such a potentially toxic substance in people's mouths when safer alternatives exist.
In fact, many dentists – my own included – have long since stopped using mercury-containing amalgams, as the more modern alternatives – the white-coloured amalgams – are safer, more aesthetic and cost the same.
The basic purpose of the strategy is to reduce mercury levels in the environment and man's exposure to mercury, especially methylmercury contained in fish.
High doses can prove to be fatal to man and, even in relatively limited doses, may have serious repercussions on human health.
The strategy has the following six objectives: to reduce mercury emissions, to reduce the available quantities of mercury by cutting the relative supply and demand, to resolve the long-term problem of limiting surpluses and stocks of mercury in products which are still in use or have been stored in recent years, to protect against mercury exposure, to improve understanding of the problems caused by mercury and its unavoidable uses and to support and promote international action to address the question of mercury.
Today's levels are due to past mercury emissions and it will take time for these levels to stabilise, even if there are no new mercury emissions.
Mercury is a global pollutant and the Commission intends to organise an international conference in Brussels on 26 and 27 October of this year in order to strengthen the momentum which exists on the international field as regards addressing this issue.
To close, I would like to thank Mr Matsakis and Parliament as a whole once again for their work and to repeat my promise to help shape even stricter European Union policies for better protection of health and the environment. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Matsakis for all the work he has done on this report.
The outcome of the votes in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety is a report that is the first step towards a coherent approach being taken towards mercury and the ultimate reduction of mercury levels in the environment.
The PPE-DE Group has tabled two amendments to the report that was adopted in committee.
A ban would see the end of the tradition of barometer-making and craftsmanship, which began over 400 years ago when mercury barometers were first introduced.
I am, however, completely in favour of legislation to protect the public from the highly toxic substance that mercury is, but the approach that we should take on environmental issues must be proportionate and it must be balanced.
A complete ban, in my view, would be a disproportionate response.
Although the European Union is the world’s main mercury exporter and a ban on its export will make a considerable contribution to curbing the trade and reducing world surpluses of this metal, I would appeal to the Council to ensure that the European Union continues to participate in international fora and activities, makes bilateral commitments and implements projects with third countries, particularly in the field of the transfer of technology, in order to deal with the problem of mercury pollution.
In this context, binding legal measures should be adopted at international level.
I am delighted that the Council’s conclusions recognise the environmental and social problems resulting from the closure of the mercury mines that have been operating for a long time in Almadén, as well as the possibility of using these Almadén mines for the safe storage of the existing metallic mercury stocks or metallic mercury sub-produced by industry all over Europe, but never its waste, thus making use of the infrastructures, local manpower and technological expertise existing there.
It only remains for me to thank the rapporteur and all of the shadow rapporteurs, because their work has been truly excellent. &#160;&#160; I wish to thank Mr&#160;Matsakis for his exemplary work as rapporteur.
It is important to have an export ban before 2010.
I therefore call on you to vote in favour of my Amendment&#160;10 in order to get rid of these problems.
We are of the view that a ban on mercury exports from European Union countries should be brought into force by no later than 2008 and not 2010, as supported by the majority in committee.
Finally, we support the fact that the EU should also help developing countries to wipe out mercury by offering not only technical but also financial assistance. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the Commission on deciding to eliminate mercury.
However, for the first time in over 20 years the rate of increase has significantly slowed down.
As pollution does not stop at borders, we must also urge our neighbouring countries to implement our strict mercury policy.
I believe that it is important and should be a priority that all of these issues be investigated and that decisions be taken on a scientific basis and not on the basis of mere suppositions, which are sometimes alarmist and which have been exaggerated by the media.
This region was very prosperous, thanks to the mercury that it has extracted from its mines since Roman times, but it is now depressed, also as a result of mercury.
For more than 22 years I was a Member of Parliament in Spain for the province of Ciudad Real, in which Almadén and its mines are located and where the majority of the mercury extracted in Europe and the world has been produced for twenty centuries.
The contribution of the European Parliament is very important and it is only in close cooperation with the institutions that we shall be able to secure for the European Union effective ways of addressing the negative repercussions of mercury on human health and the environment.
These measures are already at the preparation stage.
As regards the question of dental amalgams, the Commission will ask the relevant medical working party to study new measures and will call for the opinion of the scientific committee on the danger to health and the environment.
To finish, I should like once again to thank Parliament and Mr Matsakis in particular for his particularly positive stand on the strategy.
The Commission wishes to continue this exceptional cooperation with Parliament on this particularly serious issue. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
We cannot tolerate a situation where workers from new Member States continue to be second class, and in certain respects even third class players on the labour market.
The free movement of persons is one of the four fundamental freedoms, a fundamental idea of the European Union.
This has led the Commission to the unequivocal conclusion that the winners of this process have been the countries that have liberalised the movement of workforce from new Member States.
However, since 23 January, they have actually become third class citizens in a certain respect, because this was the date when the Directive stating that the European Union shall grant the right to employment and residence to third country nationals who have been residing legally within the territory of the European Union for at least five years came into effect.
In such a case the Accession Treaty – during any period in which any old Member State applies transitional measures – provides that it must give preference to nationals of the new Member States over third-country nationals as regards access to the labour market.
The second situation concerns nationals from the new Member States who are already resident in an old Member State.
In that case the Accession Treaty again provides that nationals of new Member States who already reside and work in a Member State applying transitional measures must not be treated in a more restrictive way than those from third countries also resident and working in that Member State.
This means that where by virtue of the directive, a third-country national has been given long-term status, the Accession Treaty operates so as to ensure that the old Member States must treat citizens from new Member States who are already legally resident and working in the territories at least according to the standards guaranteed in the directive – thus including the right of free access to the labour market.
In other words, in the situation of mobility to a second Member State, an old Member State cannot give free access to its labour market to a long-term resident who is a third-country-national if and where the same free access is not given to a national of a new Member State.
In both cases of mobility between Member States, if both the national of a new-Member-State and the long-term resident are subject to national measures such as a work permit, Community preference would operate in favour of the national of the new Member State, who is a European citizen.
Consequently, a long-term residence permit issued in the second Member State practically includes the work permit.
This means that if companies in the target state are willing to accept them, the access to the labour market of non-EU nationals arriving from other Member States is automatic and unrestrictable, while the access of citizens from new Member States is unequivocally restricted and restrictable.
This is the obvious aim of Directive 2003/109/EC, too, but attention must be paid to the right sequence.
I personally welcome the argumentation that I have also heard from the Commissioner, and would like to call attention to the fact that we need more than just a letter – we need some kind of a procedural regulation that explains what exactly needs to be done when a third country national and a European Union citizen are in a competitive situation.
I would therefore like to join with those people who are calling for an open door policy, and the sooner the better, and in this regard I believe — and, as a Spaniard, I am pleased about this — that my country’s government’s announcement that the restrictions during this transition period are to be lifted is very important.
Furthermore, we have seen clearly once again over these two years that these restrictions imposed on the countries of Central and Eastern Europe by the Europe of 15 must be lifted, for reasons of justice and solidarity, but also for reasons of rationality and common sense, today more than ever, in this year of mobility.
What I would ask, therefore, is that the study carried out by the European Commission should serve to persuade more countries to lift the restrictions and that the day should come when Europe is genuinely a Europe in which all European citizens and all European workers have the same rights, because that would be consistent, because it would be very good for mobility and because Europe needs mobility if it wants to win the productivity and competitiveness battle with the United States.
It is the countries that continue to protect their markets that have to explain why they continue to deny fully-paid-up fellow EU citizens their basic rights.
Moreover, it is an illusion that these restrictions stop Eastern European workers from coming over here, for they have been around for a long time, even though they are being exploited by fraudulent employers and live in degrading circumstances in our countries – something that I regard as a disgrace.
Considerations of civil rights, the economy and solidarity therefore require that the restrictions be lifted.
On the other, many of these same countries are taking advantage of the provisions of the Treaty on Accession and maintaining the ban on free movement of workers where the new Ten are concerned.
Unfortunately, only three Member States, namely Ireland, Sweden and the United Kingdom opened up their labour markets from 1&#160;May&#160;2004.
In no Member State of the Union has it been the case that the influx of workers from the new Member States has ousted local workers from their jobs.
The new arrivals have been taking completely new jobs or previously unfilled positions.
Unemployment in the EU currently stands at over 8% but even so, there is a shortage of workers in certain areas.
Clearly, those who have benefited the most are the very same three countries that dared to open their labour markets.
The aim of Hungary and of the other new Member States is to see that all legal and administrative obstacles currently hindering the free movement of workers in the European Union are lifted.
We would like to be equal citizens of the European Union.
Opening up the labour market and ensuring the free movement of workers is not a gift or a favour, but the reasonable decision of the nine old Member States, which would have beneficial effects on all the citizens of the European Union.
This step has brought a significant advantage to these countries.
In the Republic of Ireland, the rate of unemployment has fallen in the past two years, partly due to the positive effects created by workers from new Member States.
In the United Kingdom, the influx of workers contributed to economic growth and an improvement in competitiveness.
What he has said is only true in the countries that have opened their labour market.
In those countries it is, indeed, possible to give priority to workers from new Member States over workers from third countries.
Therefore, opening the labour markets is a matter of principle, of competitiveness and of eliminating discrimination, as well as a matter of equality between the fifteen old and the ten new Member States. &#160;&#160; – What more can I add to the comments made by all those colleagues who spoke before me?
We must congratulate several states on their decision to open their labour market to the new members of the European Union from May.
In my opinion, members of the European Union must take measures to immediately abolish discriminatory restrictions to legal employment faced by the citizens of Lithuania and other new Member States.
This would allow people to truly benefit from their rights and would give them the opportunity to pay taxes legally.
It is time to break the stereotypes of the old way of thinking and to understand that freedom and healthy competition are the engine of progress in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the plain and uncomfortable truth is that the old Member States were more than happy to open up markets where they held the competitive advantage, namely concerning the free flow of capital.
One example is the services market, and the labour market could serve as another.
From 23&#160;January, following final implementation of the directive concerning residents, the situation regarding access to the labour market by third-country citizens may actually be better than that of citizens of the countries that recently joined the Union.
It is worth emphasising yet again to the House that not one of the countries that opened their labour market has recorded an increase in unemployment or in other social problems such as benefit fraud.
We must implement them as soon as possible; the reason why we have not yet done so is that our policies are subject to different framework conditions, to different social legislation, different wages, different tax legislation, different labour laws.
Not least in my own country, which has the longest external border with the new Member States, there are more and more citizens of the new Member States in the workforce.
Let me start by saying that the Commission communication, which is meant to help do away with the transitional period for the free movement of workers, is, I think, still defective in terms of its substance and – in the form in which it is presented to us – not yet watertight in economic terms.
Nor are the authors of today’s question looking at the facts from the right angle when they talk in terms of the citizens of the ten new Member States being put at a disadvantage vis-à-vis the nationals of third countries.
The fact is that, in Germany, people from the ten new Member States are 3% more likely to be in work than those from third states.
The advantage enjoyed by the ten new States is even more pronounced in Great Britain and Ireland.
More to the point, data relating to only one year since accession cannot serve as a credible basis for a prognosis of medium and long-term changes in the labour market of the kind that the Commission is putting forward.
The United Kingdom, Ireland and Sweden opened their markets immediately and benefited, and at the same time encouraged the new Member States to view their own labour in a somewhat different light and evaluate it better.
The job market of EU-15 has not been flooded by labour from the new states.
It was feared that the new Member States would start to offer services of a better quality than in the old Member States, and this resulted in the blocking of the implementation of one of Europe’s fundamental rights, which for fifty years had only existed on paper.
The conflict was not, however, between left-wing and right-wing forces, and the old Member States quickly found a compromise among themselves: some defended their large companies, while others protected their trade unions.
But Eastern Europe opened up its market long before it joined the European Union, and as a result large companies from the old Member States have for years simply bought up companies in Eastern Europe without the constraints of a services directive.
It is the small companies and citizens of the new Member States, as well as consumers in the old Member States, who suffer as a result of this.
My question is this: what action does Europe plan to take to ensure that this intolerable protectionism and obvious discrimination does not split the newly reunited Europe? &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have read with interest the Commission report of 8 February clearly indicating that worker mobility within the European Union has had positive effects.
A month ago we debated and approved in the first reading a report on opening the services market in the European Union.
A critical moment could be reached if, on the one hand, the Services Directive becomes effective and, on the other hand, a country still chooses to frustrate the free movement of workers.
Ladies and gentlemen, in itself the free movement of workers is, of course, not a solution for sustaining the social model of a given state.
The free movement of workers, however, is definitely not, and cannot be, the source of these problems.
They will then view the free movement of workers as an advantage and not as a threat. &#160;&#160; That concludes this item. &#160;&#160; The VVD Group in the European Parliament is in favour of the ‘old’ Member States lifting the restrictions on workers from the new ones.
That has proved impossible, for every year, we notice that seasonal labour, in particular, is carried out by illegal workers. &#160;&#160; I declare the 2005-2006 session of the European Parliament closed.
