Community Tobacco Fund (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Berlato, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003 as regards the transfer of tobacco aid to the Community Tobacco Fund for the years 2008 and 2009 and Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 with regard to financing of the Community Tobacco Fund - C6-0062/2008 -.
As regards the proposal to make a deduction in the aid for the calendar year 2008, and bearing in mind that the tobacco cultivation contracts for the 2008 harvest year were concluded some time ago, the Committee on Agriculture considers that approving that proposal could give rise to a whole series of legal actions or, at any event, to a dispute which would ultimately cause serious harm to farmers alone.
The Commission proposal prolongs the transfer of a percentage from the tobacco aid to the Tobacco Fund until the calendar year 2009.
I very much welcome the support for the transfer of part of the tobacco aid into the Community Tobacco Fund.
However, your request to prolong the transitional period until 2012 poses a huge problem.
On that basis, a yearly amount of EUR 484 million has already been included in the rural development programmes for the 2007-2013 period for those Member States that are covered by the tobacco reform.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. - (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, subsidising tobacco production while at the same time combating the smoking of tobacco products has been a subject of controversy for many years.
We ask of you, however, that the tobacco status quo should obtain until 2013.
We therefore request that this should be revoked, and that the status quo should obtain until 2013.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Madam President, thank you very much, Commissioner, for your presence here.
Therefore, even Members who are against premiums for tobacco should vote for this report, because it aims to extend the time and scope for the fight against tobacco.
The case of Greece has already shown that the so-called reform of the tobacco sector in fact means its liquidation.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Madam President, subsidised tobacco growing is a clear example of the double standards which characterise the EU and the European Parliament.
Mr President, the proposal by the European Commission to continue support to the Tobacco Fund in 2008 and 2009 has my full support, but the fund cannot be used as an excuse to continue tobacco subsidies in 2013.
Both Polish and European tobacco producers expect the adoption of the report to result in the extended operation of the Community Tobacco Fund, which is essential for public health, and in maintenance of the tobacco production sector for Europe's 100 000 tobacco growers.
Commissioner Fischer Boel repeated the idea once again today, this time with reference to tobacco production.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, thank you to all of you that have contributed to this debate and thank you once again for supporting the prolongation of the transfer into the Tobacco Fund.
I would also like to point out that perhaps there is a fundamental misconception here: this report is not concerned with and takes no decision on prolonging aid payments to tobacco producers; it is merely a question of voting on a report which advocates prolonging the financing of the Community Tobacco Fund.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 20 May 2008.
