Mr President, yesterday, on behalf of our group, I talked about capital punishment, and I also said that, in our view, there is a clash between Europe' s system of values and that which is currently being adhered to in America in this connection.
Mr President, I raised the matter of Question Time yesterday.
That will be investigated, Mr Posselt. (Parliament approved the Minutes) Vote on requests for urgent procedure , draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. (DE) Mr President, a majority of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development voted for urgent procedure yesterday evening.
By adopting the report yesterday evening, we have paved the way for the vote to be taken this week, provided that the House approves the motion for urgent procedure. (Parliament approved the request for urgent procedure) Proposal for a Council decision [COM(2001)81 - C5-0138/2001 - 2001/0045(CNS)] on further exceptional financial assistance to Kosovo.
At the same time, however, may I say that we shall make every effort to ensure that a decision can be taken at the plenary part-session in July, and we shall make the necessary preparations to that end.
Mr President, this is a moment of some importance for consumer protection in the European Union.
The institutions of the Union have come together to set out the principles of food law in the shape of a new authority which can safeguard the food we eat and the way it is produced.
It is the particular task of this Parliament to refine and specify the proposal from the Commission, that is, to remind citizens and stakeholders alike exactly what we are intending to do to safeguard all parts of the food chain, at whatever point we happen to be in it, from primary producers through to ultimate consumers.
We all have a stake in the kind of food that is circulated in Europe, how it is produced, how it is prepared and ultimately how it is checked.
We believe it is necessary because there must be clear but also limited and targeted ambitions for this authority.
If you want a proper reference to hygiene or to nutrition or to quality or to our affection for traditional foods, as some of the amendments have proposed, my answer would be: look in the report.
The Member States will play a full role through the continuum of the advisory forum.
The EUR 44 million envisaged is a fairly small sum, compared to other European agencies.
My final point is about the site of the new authority.
There are those who think it should be decided ultimately by the Council on a proposal by the Commission with the assent of this Parliament.
I commend this report to the House.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Food Authority is of fundamental importance to the people in our Community.
The European Food Authority requires stable legal foundations, so that it does not become the pawn of any special interests even before it begins its work.
For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote with the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and leave the whole Regulation in the realm of the codecision procedure.
Let us therefore put paid to the plans of Mr Prodi, the President of the Commission, who has already let it be known through the press that he wants Luxembourg to be given the Food Authority as compensation for the loss of other European bodies.
The report was not straightforward because, although the Commission' s proposal is a good starting document and is full of good intentions, in addition to the enormous number of amendments tabled in it, it takes the wrong approach and contains many ambiguities.
For example, Article 5 should clearly define the objectives of food legislation and limit them to the protection of public and consumer health and food safety throughout the food chain, without hindering the free movement of agri-food products within the Community, as well as ensuring the competitiveness of the European agri-food industry within international markets.
Other objectives, such as the protection of the environment and the protection and welfare of animals and plants, are all very laudable, Commissioner, but if they do not affect food safety, there is other legislation which deals with them or which can potentially deal with them.
We have just voted, for example, under the urgent procedure, on the welfare of pigs, with the sole objective of increasing the legislative initiatives of the Swedish Presidency.
Commissioner, you have said on many occasions that the new rapid alert system is part of crisis management, and that it would be the responsibility of the Commission.
However, in its proposal, the Commission proposes that the Authority should have this responsibility, in recital 35, in Article 21(2), in Article 22(h), in Article 34 and in Article 49.
This is the true task of the future Food Authority and I am pleased that Amendment No 123 gives priority to its scientific opinions.
As for the communication of risk, this should be done by experts, because a communication which is inappropriate for public opinion may create social alarm, as has already happened, and cause significant losses and economic disasters for agri-food sectors throughout the European Union.
However, I would still like to focus attention on one particular point.
Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries I welcome the proposal wholeheartedly.
The very nature of fisheries has implications for traceability.
I welcome, however, amendments which follow the gist of my opinion, redefining the definitions of food unfit for human consumption and contaminated food in Amendments Nos 43 and 44, as they are more in line with the policy the Commission has pursued in the wake of the outbreak of infectious salmon anaemia.
Finally, the Committee on Fisheries endorsed Amendments Nos 35 and 51, which take into account the distinct needs of the aquaculture sectors and, in particular, the amendments that address concerns which have been voiced about the development of genetically modified fish, to prevent them from entering the food chain through the back door via third-country imports.
I would therefore urge the House to support these amendments.
Mr President, there are two key reasons for action in this field.
Food is a single market and food safety is a public health issue.
So just as when my report, at the White Paper stage, demanded a system based on science and focused on safety, again we say right across this House: keep the food safety authority slim, transparent, independent and dedicated to assessment of food safety risk and to recommendations as to what action, if any, should be taken.
Publish without delay the conclusions and any minority conclusions of the board on any assessed risk, and hold meetings of the board in public.
To the Commission and the Council I would say: note the strength of unity in this Parliament on these key issues; cooperate with us in partnership and the beneficiaries will be the European consumers in every Member State.
Now we have to quickly get this new system up and running - this is incredibly important.
We already have the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin, which plays an important role in terms of risk management and control.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report constitutes an important phase in the legislative process which is to provide an answer to the many crises which consumers have had to brave over the past few decades.
Mr Whitehead has managed, in a balanced report, to expertly combine the many opinions which are around in our Parliament on the establishment of a food authority.
Thirdly, maintaining the cultural diversity of food within the European Union.
Sixthly, the precautionary principle must apply to any discernible risk.
The European Food Safety Authority will not become an unwieldy giant but will hopefully soon provide us with sound and reliable scientific advice.
Finally, my group also supports the view that the ultimate responsibility of a rapid alert system should be with the Commission.
After all, political responsibilities can never be shirked, as has unfortunately happened all too often in recent years, both within the EU and in the Member States.
The BSE situation in particular demonstrates how important it is to be able to depend on independent research into food resources, research that is geared to the long-term acquisition of knowledge.
The consumption of meat and meat products is rising slowly, and their prices are developing in line with production costs.
The publication of the Commission White Paper on food safety and the proposed establishment of a European Food Authority marks a new era in food production.
The end result should put beyond doubt the quality and safety of all food products, and provide the assurances consumers have been seeking and to which they are entitled.
The process of adding value to basic agricultural products is supplying consumers with a wide range of quality food.
The Commission proposals concerning the development of food legislation and food safety are positive.
In order to ensure food safety, the whole food chain must be flawless and its supervision comprehensive.
In conclusion, in our anxiety to safeguard the consumer interest - our main objective - we must also ensure that agriculture is allowed to benefit from the advances in modern technology.
However, as a result of recent food crises, the European consumer has lost faith in food.
That is why it is of great importance that a link be established between food production and food safety.
A related problem which merits our attention is the export of food whereby lower standards are applied than those in the European Union.
The political translation of risk assessment into risk management belongs with the European institutions.
The Member States need to ensure that the rapid alert system is effective and that the European Commission is informed in good time.
Naturally, we hope it will not be the case of this Food Safety Authority, but every appropriate measure must be taken and great care is needed, because that is precisely the mechanism usually operating inside the European Union.
The location of the Authority must be based on criteria relating to its activity - that is, the location should be the expression of an agricultural and food culture rooted in that territory - and to its scientific jurisdiction, which relates to foods and food products.
Mr Whitehead' s report has the merit of pointing out a certain number of ambiguities contained in the draft regulation, but it does not propose how those ambiguities should be removed.
The rapporteur, quite rightly, emphasises the need to draw a very precise distinction between the advisory role of the European authority and the risk-management role which falls to the Member States and the Commission.
The rapid alert system should not, therefore, be placed under the control of the authority.
Finally, with regard to the need to work actively to achieve the proposed consistency between the raised European standards and existing international standards, a problem which this report mentions almost as an aside, I also regret the fact that Parliament has not really discussed this vital point in any more detail so as to ensure that our initiatives do not have the effect of penalising European producers.
Mr President, the European Commission proposals to set up a European Food Authority are a direct and long-awaited reaction to the food crises which Europe has had to face over recent years.
Indeed, European consumers' confidence in food safety must be restored, and the establishment of a European Food Authority is the first major step towards restoring that confidence.
I hope that, despite this, the Food Authority will be able to commence its activities at the start of next year, anyway.
The primary and absolute duty of the Union is assuredly to guarantee maximum food safety throughout every link of the production and distribution chains, but its duties also include the protection and promotion of typical regional products, as well as providing accurate information on foodstuffs present on the market, so that the consumer can exercise choice in full critical awareness.
In conclusion, I want to mention the choice of location for the future Authority.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Whitehead' s report on the setting up of a European Food Authority to be responsible for food safety appears to us to be moving in the right direction, both in its analysis of the situation which led to the proposal to create this authority and as regards the tasks that will be assigned to the authority and the proposed method of ensuring that it operates in the best possible way.
We must remember that this initiative is the result, unfortunately, of a series of repeated scandals connected, on the one hand, with the desire to increase agricultural productivity and, on the other, with the monopoly enjoyed by the major distributors, which have led to health-conscious, industrial farming but have not prevented the development of scandalous trends such as chicken containing dioxin, trafficking in veterinary products of all kinds, and in particular the fundamental crisis of BSE.
At the beginning of next year, in order to apply the principles of transparency and completely independent monitoring, the Food Authority will have to propose the principles which this document correctly sets out.
Its main mission is above all to serve as a coordinator for the national agencies, so as to ensure that they all recognise the same references and so that their role in providing scientific evaluation and preventing risks is sufficiently well publicised.
But we need to ensure that it has an opinion, its own opinion, and that it is able to provide information and publish its opinion even when no-one asks for it, especially when it disagrees with those in charge of managing the risks.
Mr President, Commissioner, a strong Authority that can avail itself of all the wealth of Europe' s experience, ability and professionalism: if that is the accepted and agreed principle underlying the European Food Authority, the principle of separation between risk assessment and risk management is not, in my opinion, likely to apply very much, in terms of either timing or purpose.
To make that concrete, the European Food Authority' s operations and mission must cover real detailed knowledge of all the farms scattered across the European Union.
Several wishes have been presented here that the authority should begin immediately at the start of next year.
The authority must be independent and it must have good contacts with the scientific community.
It is to be hoped that we will then enjoy sound cooperation between the Union and the Member States.
Crises have shown that that is not the case and that the Commission has far too little power on that score.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, hats off to the rapporteur and to the shadow rapporteur!
I believe that, with this report, we have fired the starting signal for the enhancement of food safety in the European Union.
Parliament, whether or not it has codecision rights in this matter, has laid down clear criteria that should be applied, and let me say that we must not allow another dilemma to arise like the one in Dublin, a situation in which an authority cannot operate because the basic conditions are not right.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to thank our rapporteur and congratulate him on the importance and the quality of the work he has done.
It therefore seems to me to be extremely important that this authority, which should constitute the mainspring of the Union' s strategy on food safety, can become operational as rapidly as possible, and in any case by the beginning of next year.
The rapporteur is right to emphasise the need to make a clear distinction between the tasks and responsibilities which will fall to the future authority and those which are the responsibility of the Commission.
Thus it must be quite clear that, although the authority is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the rapid alert system, in other words that tool which is so essential in risk assessment, it is the Commission, in other words the political decision-making body, which has to retain the responsibility for risk management, in other words it must be in control of the measures to be taken.
This is why it seems to me relevant, as the Commission proposes, to place this authority under the triple tutelage of the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament.
Finally, and in spite of everything, I should like to emphasise, as other Members have done before me, that unless we rethink our options and our common policies concerning agriculture, no authority, however effective, will ever be able to stem the tide of major crises like those that we have experienced recently.
Mr President, food safety and public health are rarely out of the headlines and are key political priorities for all of us in Europe.
I also welcome Commissioner Byrne.
The integrity of a European food authority will be based on independence and strong scientific leadership in the field of food safety.
When we talk about the requirements for food safety it is imperative that we also talk about the responsibility of food producers for this food chain.
The Commission has omitted from the legislative text the key first link in the food chain: the farmer or the fisherman.
I have tabled Amendment No 72 to Article 40 which deals with responsibility of farmers for food safety and adds a force majeure defence for phenomena over which farmers have no personal control, for example natural disasters and major environmental pollution.
I have tabled Amendments Nos 147 and 148 to Article 39 in an effort to ensure that the authority explains its scientific risk assessments to this House, to consumers, to businesses and the academic community.
Article 63 lays down the criteria to be met by any nominee and also establishes a procedure for that choice.
I believe that this new criterion makes no sense and is not in accordance with the objective of the future Food Authority which is, above all, health and consumer protection.
In their proposals the European Parliament has clearly taken its own share of responsibility for restoring the faith of the European consumer and guaranteeing food safety.
It should have a long standing tradition in food safety in order to lend credibility to the authority in the eyes of over 300 million European consumers.
It should not endanger the authority' s independence and integrity, it should provide a good scientific infrastructure and facilities in the field of food safety.
Now, headed by Mr Whitehead, they too appear to understand that it is important to establish what we expect of a Food Authority and what kind of criteria we will set for its location.
The internal market is a great good, but it can only function on the basis of common standards and rules, and today sees the laying of the foundations for this.
We must guarantee that food imported from third countries is just as safe as food produced over here, but food safety must not be a cover for protectionism.
We do not want a stalemate between the national and European authorities.
The objectives are to offer maximum guarantees of food safety and of fair play within the internal market and with regard to imports and exports and, as the previous speaker rightly pointed out, to restore consumer confidence in all products offered within the internal market.
The consumer has lost a great deal of confidence.
A major factor in that connection will be the authority which the Food Authority acquires, for we can easily call it an Authority but, in the final analysis, it will be up to that Authority to ensure that it can command authority in the eyes of consumers, producers and the national authorities.
I hope that this project will be a success.
I hope that the Belgian Presidency manages to complete it, as best it can, and I hope that we in Parliament will also have the courage to subject our amendments to the scientific test of this Food Authority.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, not only today is the food inspectorate the focus of public attention; it will have to endure public scrutiny again in the near future when it starts to pursue the ambitious aim that has been set for it.
Nevertheless, the safety and quality of food have suddenly become one of the main causes for concern, fear and uncertainty amongst the sophisticated European consumers.
The legislation and the strategy that are adopted in the field of food safety are vital for the European Union and for its credibility.
The proposal for a Regulation that we are now considering represents the main pillar of a legislative structure, which is designed to guarantee a high level of health protection and to restore consumer confidence.
In order to guarantee food safety, it is crucial that there are no weak links in any part of the food chain and that risks are detected in good time.
Hence the need for a food safety authority which is prestigious and well respected.
There is no sense in maintaining a divided approach, and nor would this do us any credit, for example, on the composition of the management board, on the appointment of the executive director or on its headquarters.
Mr President, in his eloquent introduction the rapporteur referred to the importance of focus and reasserted the importance of the word "safety" being in the title of this authority, which I very much support.
By voting through this amendment now as part of Amendment No 188, Parliament would make clear that such Member States could not expect the benefits of hosting such new agencies if they are not prepared to exercise their responsibilities.
We have a chance today, and in the vote tomorrow, to give a very clear signal.
I would also to thank the Members here this morning for their generous remarks in relation to the work undertaken by the Commission.
This proposal is the cornerstone of the European food safety strategy, providing the basic principles, requirements, procedures and organisational structures for the future development of food law and, in particular, food safety.
As you will have seen from the proposal, the Commission took careful account of the Bowis report from Parliament on the White Paper on food safety.
The draft Whitehead report supports the Commission proposal in general, despite the great number of amendments.
Hence the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 4 or 209 changing or expanding the legal basis.
We cannot accept these in this broad, horizontal context, which covers not just hygiene, but also contaminants, additives, materials in contact with food and much more.
Similarly, Amendments Nos 59 and 72 are too detailed for a horizontal text.
We cannot accept Amendment Nos 11 and 202 on concessions for SMEs, as consumers should enjoy the same protection as regards food from SMEs.
Nor can we accept Amendments Nos 26, 40, 50 and 193, which extend the scope of the regulation to food quality.
The scope of the regulation covers misleading and deceptive practices but not financial fraud between traders.
Hence we can only partially accept Amendment No 49.
We have kept food safety requirements apart from other consumer interests.
Therefore we can accept in principle Amendment No 57 - not in Article 8 on consumer interests, but in Article 12, which covers the food safety requirement.
We cannot accept Amendment No 214 to Article 12, requiring that the calorific value and composition of a food become part of a safety assessment.
We can accept the part of Amendment No 38 introducing distribution, but not the part on placing in circulation.
For example, Amendment No 53 attempts to rewrite what exists in WTO agreements on those instances warranting a full risk analysis.
Amendment No 52 is also unacceptable, owing to its impact on our international obligations; it is contrary to WTO rights and obligations.
Although many of the points in Amendment No 56 reflect these positions, the text is too detailed and our legal advice is that this would cause problems in a legally binding regulation.
We cannot accept Amendment No 63, which requires food control work and surveillance to be kept confidential.
We can only accept the first part of Amendment 61, which makes the legal responsibilities of feed businesses more precise.
This concept is also found in Amendment No 82, but we cannot accept the part of this amendment which refers to the supplier taking products back, as this confuses the legal meanings of import and export.
Amendments Nos 70 and 75 on whistle-blowers are acceptable in principle, but we will consider a more appropriate text.
We cannot accept Amendments Nos 48 and 189, which are inappropriate for the date of application of different parts of the text.
As regards Amendment No 185, it would not be possible to have a report on the application of the principles of food law, as these will not have an impact for a significant period of time.
We can accept, in principle, Amendments Nos 85 and 207 on transparency, while ensuring that the text is fully aligned with the Amsterdam Treaty Protocol on subsidiarity and proportionality.
In relation to the EFA's scope, Amendment No 87 and related Amendments Nos 88 and 187 are not acceptable, because they reduce the its remit to fields known to have an impact on food safety.
However, Amendment No 86, which makes it clear that the primary mission of the Authority is food safety, is acceptable.
I would like to stress here that the extent of the work of the Authority that is not linked directly or indirectly to food safety was circulated for the financial statement and, in fact, is less that 5%.
Amendment No 195 is acceptable in principle, subject to changes in order to include the plant health issues in relation to harmful organisms in the Scientific Panel on plant protection products.
The Commission now considers that it should remain responsible for operation of the rapid alert system, with the Authority acting as a member of the network, so we are not able to accept Amendments Nos 15, 89, 94, 158, 159, 161, 162, 163 and 169.
The Commission maintains its original proposal, on the composition of the Management Board of the Authority, which very carefully laid down a balanced share of representatives from the European institutions: four from the Commission, four appointed by Parliament, four from the Council and four representing consumers and industry.
For this reason we cannot accept Amendments Nos 17, 18, 101, 194, 208 and 213.
Amendments Nos 219, 221 and 222 in relation to the renewal of the mandates of the president of the Management Board and of the members of the Scientific Committee are not acceptable, because they are unnecessarily restrictive.
Amendments Nos 107 and 220 on the open and transparent appointment of the Executive Director by the Management Board with a hearing in Parliament, is acceptable in principle.
We can also accept the part of Amendment No 134 that makes public the list of scientific bodies competent to help the EFA in its work, although without the suggested deletion that requires the Member States to designate these bodies.
The rest of Amendment No 134, which deals with EEA/EFTA countries is acceptable in principle, but should come under Article 48 on the participation of third countries.
We can accept Amendment No 113 in part, but the Advisory Forum should not be compelled to meet six times a year.
Amendment No 118 is not acceptable, as it removes the possibility for the Authority to refuse or modify requests for scientific opinions.
Amendment No 13 is unacceptable, since a request for a scientific opinion during the legislative process should be limited to justified cases - new scientific information - for example - in order to avoid repeated requests on the same topic.
For these reasons, Amendments Nos 21 and 212 are not acceptable.
Amendment No 92 is, however, acceptable, if modified to ensure that the authority can make recommendations on management options at the request of the risk managers.
Amendment No 93 would be acceptable with the deletion of 'for the measures necessary to be taken'.
Amendment No 98 is acceptable, in making clear that the authority can express 'independently' its own conclusions and orientations.
The rest of Amendment No 98 is covered by Amendment No 92.
Finally, Amendment No 97 is not acceptable, since it would involve the authority in risk management.
Amendments Nos 23, 153 and 157 are not acceptable, because they remove the possibility for the authority to receive fees.
Amendments Nos 121, 122 and 123 are not acceptable.
They remove the procedure applied in the event of a divergence between the Authority's scientific opinions and those of a national scientific body, thereby making the Authority the final arbitrator in science.
In any event, the Article 29 procedure is designed to achieve a result through transparency, and the decision is the risk manager's.
Subsequent failure by Member States to comply with any measure brought forward by the risk manager or the legislative authority will lead to infringement proceedings.
Amendment No 126 is acceptable in principle, if changed to ensure that all biological risks that may have a direct or indirect impact on the food production chain are covered.
Amendment No 174 is not acceptable, since the crisis unit will not be a permanent structure.
Amendment No 24 on the emergencies procedure is not acceptable, as a 'serious risk' is the precondition for emergency measures in all existing Community legislation.
However, Amendment No 178 is acceptable in principle, in that it takes into account the fact that food aid is already covered by the term 'food'.
For these reasons, only paragraphs 6a and 6b in Amendment No 154 are acceptable.
Amendment No 155 is acceptable in relation to 'the recommendation from the Council', but not in relation to the discharge given to the Management Board.
Amendment No 19 and the part of Amendment No 20 containing the word 'authorised' are not acceptable.
Amendments Nos 172 and 173 propose involving Parliament in practical crisis management.
This is not, in my view, compatible with its institutional role of control and supervision.
Amendments Nos 175, 179, 180, 181 and 182 are not compatible with the comitology procedure and therefore are not acceptable.
The evaluation commissioned by the Authority cannot address the whole regulation, as it can only be relevant to the Authority.
Amendment No 205 is not acceptable, since it is already clear that the authority has right to change its own internal rules.
I cannot accept Amendment No 192, as the Food Authority will not affect the ceiling for heading three of the financial perspective and I draw your attention to the provisional draft budget for 2002, reference PDB 2002, currently under review in Parliament and the Council.
Finally, I would like to address the question of the location of the Authority.
Amendments Nos 188, 190, 216, 217, 218 and 223 are acceptable in part.
Amendment No 215 is not acceptable.
Before I conclude, I would like to say something very briefly about references made by a number of Members to traditional foods.
In summary, the Commission cannot accept 100 amendments and they are 1, 4, 11 to 13, 15, 17 to 19, 21, 23, 24, 26, 28, 29, 32 to 34, 36, 37, 39 to 41, 43, 44, 46, 48, 50 to 56, 59, 63, 68, 72, 74, 77, 78, 81, 87 to 89, 91, 94, 95, 97, 99, 101, 102, 117, 118, 121 to 123, 125, 133, 143, 145 to 148, 153, 157 to 159, 161 to 163, 169, 172 to 175, 179 to 182, 185, 187, 189, 191 to 194, 202, 205, 208 to 215, 219, 221 and 222.
On the other hand, the Commission can accept fully the following 44 amendments: Amendments Nos 3, 6 to 8, 14, 22, 25, 30, 31, 58, 64 to 66, 71, 79, 86, 90, 103 to 105, 109 to 111, 116, 119, 124, 127 to 130, 131, 135 to 142, 152, 164, 176, 186 and 206.
The Commission can accept in part and/or principle 64 amendments, and they are Nos 2, 5, 10, 16, 20, 27, 35, 38, 42, 45, 47, 49, 57, 60 to 62, 67, 69, 70, 73, 75, 76, 80, 82 to 85, 92, 93, 96, 98, 106, 107, 108, 112 to 115, 120, 126, 132, 134, 144, 149, 150, 154 to 156, 160, 161, 170, 177, 178, 183, 184, 188, 190, 195, 207, 216, 217, 218, 220 and 223.
Actually I saw that none of them were in a position to follow the final list you read out, though of course the reasons you gave before that have been very useful.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner Byrne, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission' s proposal on animal by-products involves strict separation into three categories.
I would like to remind you that category 1 includes the risk material and is primarily covered by the regulation on TSEs recently adopted by Parliament for the third time.
Category 1 covers risk material.
Category 2 includes animals which have died a natural death.
It is now my hope that Parliament will adopt these principles laid down by a strong majority.
This proposal, which was presented in the committee and voted down, seeks to permanently ban all meat and bone meal, with the exception of fish meal, in all animal feed.
This means that serious infectious diseases such as salmonella, listeria and even tuberculosis, would be exempt from this regulation.
Amendment No 23 exempts, for example, sheep and goats which have died of natural causes from the specification risk material.
Mr President, if we had had this regulation ten or fifteen years ago and had adhered to it, if the Member States had applied it, there would have been no BSE.
And let me also thank Commissioner Byrne.
Most disturbing of all, it is a fact that because of BSE people have died, not the large numbers forecast by some scientists, but even the death of one young person is one too many for a family.
The fact is that it was multiplied by the recycling of waste into meat and bone meal.
Our initial reaction in the United Kingdom was to introduce a ruminant ban on meat and bone meal.
Amendment No 100 facilitates this continued ban.
It is important that catering waste is included in these proposals.
I should like to make one or two points on the nature of the scourges we face.
The problem in the past was that we were like countries preparing for the last war and not the next one.
Mr President, Commissioner Byrne, the issue under discussion is the directive on the use of animal by-products.
My problem in relation to the proposal is why the precautions are identical for the entire area of the EU if the risks in some areas are non-existent.
Although we are now accepting Parliament' s opinion on the directive proposal, we still need to think about these things.
Mr President, if the Belgian dioxin crisis, the BSE crisis and the foot-and-mouth epidemic have taught us anything, it is that there is a need for strict regulation on the trade in, and storage and processing of, animal waste.
Since 4 December 2000, a total ban has been in place on feeding farm animals animal protein.
The proposal for a Regulation which we are debating today describes how we must deal with animal waste from now on, and how undesired products must be prevented from ending up in the food chain.
In her introduction, Mrs Paulsen very clearly pinpointed all bottlenecks.
If it transpires that the subdivision into three categories, the compulsory separation of waste streams and the prevention of cannibalism in the sector are not, or not sufficiently, being complied with and that fraud is, or remains, too prominent, we can assume that the political pre-conditions for allowing the use of meat and bone meal in animal feed for pigs and chickens have not been met.
That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for your massive support for Amendment No 64 to Article 26, which states that the interim ban on feeding animals all kinds of animal by-products must not be extended to the date on which this regulation enters into force, as is the Commission' s wish, but to the date on which this regulation is fully implemented in the Member States.
In the light of this, we want a report from the Member States, before 1 February 2003, on the uniform application of this regulation, and only upon receipt of this report can the debate on the lifting of the total ban begin.
Moreover, I should like to emphasise that ruminants have not been created to eat animal, but vegetable, proteins.
I welcome the fact that at the moment, a large majority is in favour of strict measures, but we will need to keep our finger on the pulse during implementation too.
If we want to see the impact of these measures, the Member States will also need to closely monitor compliance with them.
I hope that these pyres will no longer be needed in future.
Mr President, animal by-products which are suitable in principle for human consumption must also continue to be available as animal feed once they have been properly processed.
Once this is guaranteed, it should be possible to use meat and bone meal once again.
In its proposal, the Commission formulated a conditional ban, in other words a graduated ban, on the use of meat and bone meal in feeds and fertilisers.
We all remember the dioxin crisis which, in 1999, hit my country, Belgium.
The provisional ban on all feeds derived from animal products for animals intended for human consumption, as ordered by the Council in December 2000, was necessary, but the problem of by-products of animal origin must be addressed.
The proposed regulation, as amended so as to strengthen food safety, is aimed at achieving this public-health objective.
We are therefore in full agreement with the principles defined in the explanatory statement to the regulation, according to which only the by-products of carcases authorised for human consumption can be used as raw materials for animal feedingstuffs or human food.
The classification of by-products, the separation of categories and the labelling of substances falling within Categories 1 and 2 are measures intended to consolidate the objectives being pursued.
Finally, the solutions proposed regarding substitution, utilisation and elimination also contribute to the clarification that is awaited in this sector.
This proposal is the second major component in our defence barriers against BSE.
The other is, of course, the regulation on TSEs, which enters into force on 1 July.
I cannot overemphasise the importance of this proposal.
Over 16 million tonnes of animal by-products not intended for human consumption are produced each year in the EU.
These 16 million tonnes do not disappear into thin air.
This can be done in a manner which is safe, economic and effective for health and the environment, or it can be done in an unregulated manner, which puts public health and the environment at risk.
That is exactly what the Commission proposed in October 2000: a framework which will allow these 16 million tonnes to be processed safely and effectively.
This proposal is linked very closely with the issue of BSE.
When this regulation enters into force, we will have a system that is state of the art.
Due to her and your efforts, I am in a position today to agree to the spirit and principles of the vast majority of your amendments, subject to some editorial changes.
I shall also briefly mention the proposal for a directive amending Directives 90/425 and 92/118.
I agree to remove the reference to increasing productivity in a recital, but the original reference to the Treaty should be retained.
However, we must reject amendments introducing recitals which are not matched by provisions in the text, or deleting recitals referring to the text, as this is contrary to correct legal practice.
As we learned from the development of the BSE epidemic, the practice of intra-species recycling may increase the risk of recycling potential infectivity due to the absence of a species barrier.
However we understand your general concern and will bear it in mind for the future.
We accept the need to introduce additional and stricter requirements to avoid cross-contamination.
The Commission proposal already establishes a complete separation during collection and transport of animal waste and a complete separation of plants dedicated to feed production.
We cannot accept adding a specific new technology, as this is unnecessary and in my view premature.
We accept the inclusion of catering waste in the scope of the regulation, but we must clarify that such waste is covered by the proposal only when destined to specific purposes in order to avoid duplication within environmental legislation.
Secondly, the recent dioxin crisis and the current outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease adequately illustrate why the continuation of this feeding practice is not appropriate.
We cannot limit the spreading of manure only in cases where it is suspected of disseminating an OIE List A disease, as certain Member States have additional eradication measures for diseases not included in that list, such as salmonella.
The net result of these amendments would be to prohibit the use of an important volume of animal by-products in bio-gas and composting.
For reason of consistency with the TSE regulation, we can accept that this process be used before incineration if required by the national competent authority.
This would allow Member States to require this process when, for example, a long period of storage is needed before incineration.
We cannot accept a ban on the use of rendered fats from Category 2 material for the production of fat derivatives for the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industry.
We can agree to an earlier date of entry into force of the regulation and welcome the proposal that Member States forward a report to the Commission on the implementation of the regulation.
We can accept the principle of prohibiting the exportation of Category 1 and Category 2 material.
We can agree to the principle of refrigeration of raw Category 3 material.
We cannot accept the introduction of a permanent ban on meat and bone meal in feed, as the feed ban comes under the competence of the recently adopted TSE regulation.
In fact, pending the adoption and implementation of this proposal, I am proposing an extension of the current total feed ban under the legal provisions of the TSE regulation.
The conditions established by the proposal to control this feeding practice are stricter than the current one and are in line with the Commission's inspectors' recommendation.
In conclusion, the Commission welcomes the report and the many useful and constructive amendments contained therein.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, what you say is in line with the suggestion I made just now, that is, that the Commission departments could prepare a written text for distribution when there is such a large number of amendments the Commissioner needs to comment on.
That would also allow the Commissioner to speak more on the substance and less on the Commission' s position on all the amendments.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Ozone in ambient air The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0187/2001) by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on relating to ozone in ambient air [13114/1/2000 - C5­0090/2001 - 1999/0068(COD)] (Rapporteur: Mr Davies).
Ground-level ozone is a pollutant which still severely affects the health of many of our citizens.
It contributes to problems of asthma in children - now said to affect as many as one in ten children in the United Kingdom alone - and to breathing difficulties in the elderly.
Government studies in my country suggest that ozone may lead to the premature death of 12 500 people each year.
The Council has also decided that it wants the target for the maximum number of exceedances to be 25 rather than 20 days.
I want them quickly to implement short-term action plans if ozone levels exceed double the WHO recommendations, and I want them to provide the Commission with information of a standard which enables comparison to be made between the performance of different Member States, so that the public can determine which countries are making a real effort and which are not.
The north west of England, for example, may generate more traffic fumes than many places elsewhere in Europe but, because we are not blessed with too much sunlight, ozone is less of a problem to us than it may be in Spain.
I thank colleagues in other parties for working with me to try and ensure that Parliament's position commands a large majority.
I thank Parliament's staff and, in particular, my assistant, Vikki Phillips, who has made a very considerable contribution to this process over the past year.
I hope Parliament will give its support to the proposals in this report and the compromises agreed between the political parties, and that we play our part in achieving what could be another success story for the European environment.
Commissioner, the concentrations of ozone in the atmosphere are a serious problem, not only in terms of the environment, but also in terms of public health, since they affect that health of the citizens, especially amongst risk populations such as children and old people, causing allergies and cardio-respiratory difficulties, amongst other things.
Concentrations of ozone are very unevenly distributed amongst the Member States.
The result has been an absence of reliable and comparable data, as well as insufficiency in short- and long-term action plans.
In this respect, its seems to me important that these plans strengthen, in each case, the study of the local conditions in which the concentrations are produced, in order thereby to combat them more effectively.
I also believe it is necessary to set target dates in order to stimulate progress on the control of the problem.
Nevertheless, we cannot ignore the current difficulties in guaranteeing the complete control of the concentrations of tropospheric ozone and strict compliance at all times with the values and timescales laid down.
First and foremost, it is important that we stick to the WHO's health targets in this area and that those exceedances of these targets that are to be accepted for a number of years are limited as far as possible, in this case to 20 days per year.
I believe that, with the adoption of this report, we shall be taking a considerable step forward and acquiring a sound basis for the further negotiations with the Commission and the Council in the Conciliation Committee.
My group is able to support all the amendments.
The Council of Environment Ministers only wishes to provide an interim solution to the problem of summer smog by 2010.
The Rules of Procedure state that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is responsible for competition matters.
It has no option in any case, because Article 39(1) of the Treaty on European Union states that the Council shall consult the European Parliament before adopting any measure.
So to all intents and purposes, the Council has already decided on this matter, even though we were unable to debate this issue until yesterday and although we are not yet in a position to present the Council with our decision in the form of a corrigendum.
And not only did it exist, but it had also already adopted the majority of what we were discussing.
Since I do not want them to have the excuse that they have not received Parliament' s opinion, we are going to vote in favour of the Klamt report, but I would ask the Council at least to show the minimum of loyalty.
Thank you, Mrs Terrón i Cusí.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of our own food authority is an essential signal to consumers, whose confidence in food products has been badly shaken in recent times.
Not only the Commission but every Member State too must have the legal power to appeal directly to the new authority.
The European Food Authority must operate independently of the Commission, so that it can intervene as quickly as possible in any crisis.
We have great expectations of this authority, and we want it to be staffed by independent experts who can offer the politicians a scientific basis that will enable them to make the right decisions and fully restore consumer confidence.
The official objective of the Commission' s proposal on the European Food Authority is to improve the prevention of crises such as mad cow disease.
In reality, however, we are watching the creation of a perfectly deliberate system intended to hinder those Member States who would like to use their own powers of national safeguard in the case of a public-health crisis (as France did at the end of 1999, when, to the chagrin of the Commission, it continued to maintain its unilateral embargo on British beef), and in so doing to preserve as much as possible the sacrosanct free circulation of products.
Although the only objective of the new European body is to give scientific opinions to the Community institutions and to Member States, it is obvious that it will circumvent or neutralise the opinions of national food-safety agencies, such as the AFSSA in France, so as to prevent governments from having a legitimate reason to base their decisions on those agencies.
Article 22 explains that the new system will provide 'the best possible scientific opinions' , thereby devaluing all others.
The name should have been 'Agency' because in theory this body will be simply issuing opinions, but the Commission insists absolutely on the word 'Authority' , and it is easy to see why.
What is needed is a change in the EU' s current policies affecting the safety of food, namely, the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy.
Furthermore, an authority that guarantees risk assessment for food safety, underpinned by solid scientific opinion, must not take responsibility from or replace the Commission or the competent authorities in each Member State in managing the risks of Community food policy.
We agreed that the underlying principle of any legislation on food is to protect human health and it is this very reason that makes it crucial to apply the precautionary principle to risk management, when scientific data are insufficient or inconclusive.
I voted in favour of this report.
Just lately, there has been a proliferation of these new agencies: a European Maritime Safety Agency, a European Aviation Safety Agency etc.
The existence of this report is in fact the result of a sad admission - that the European Commission has shown itself to be incapable of reacting effectively to various food crises.
The authority must focus on identifying and assessing risks, coordinating its activities with those of the national agencies and supplying all the information that is needed.
Finally, on the question of where this authority should be situated, I voted in favour of Amendment No 188 in its entirety.
So far, however, my country has remained one of the worst offenders in this respect.
By voting as I have done, I simply wish to send a strong signal to political leaders in France, to tell them that this situation must be remedied.
The White Paper on Food Safety is dated January 2000.
We are halfway through 2001 and we are not yet in a position to say when this Authority is likely to come into operation.
There are multiple practical problems to be resolved, but the proposals have arrived late and we will not know when the measures intended to prevent the outbreak and spread of contamination will be implemented.
While waiting for the procedures to take their course, and for the governments and the Commission to reach agreement on the proposals from Parliament on responsibility for assessment and notification of risk and its management - the latter should be the exclusive responsibility of the Commission - we again propose the establishment of a provisional committee to reassure European citizens about the quality of food on the market.
I wholeheartedly applaud the efforts of my Labour colleague, Mr Whitehead, to put forward measures to establish a European Food Authority to deal with food safety and the concerns of consumers.
Of course, the health and well-being of our citizens is of paramount importance.
Paulsen reports (A5-0185/2001 and A5-0200/2001) Mr President, as agreed by all the pensioners in my party, I have voted for these health rules Mrs Paulsen has presented so well.
The Commission' s proposal on the treatment of by-products of animal origin is a step in the right direction, but I agree with the rapporteur that we should strengthen the regulation by asking for strict separation, and hence visibility in the food chain, of the three categories of materials: extremely dangerous, for example contaminated by dioxins and transmissible spongiform encephalitis (TSE); carrying risk of diseases other than TSE; and produced from healthy animals.
Only those in the third category are to be permitted as ingredients in animal fodder.
Notwithstanding the laudable amendments tabled by the rapporteur, whose efforts to strengthen the Commission' s proposals we appreciate, many points still remain unresolved in terms of decisions on urgent action in the event of crises.
Karamanou report (A5-0206/2001) Mr President, the GUE/NGL Group could not support Mrs Karamanou' s report on child pornography.
Mr President, I have voted in favour of this report whereby the European Union sets about combating sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
The Alleanza Nazionale group has voted for the Karamanou report because the European institutions are at last decisively committed to combating phenomena like child pornography and the sexual exploitation of children, which is worsening and spreading all the time, striking down the weakest and most defenceless citizens of the European Union: our children.
This is the first perceptible step to remind the Member States of their responsibility to introduce more appropriate legislation to deal with the specific nature of this odious crime.
Our abstention on this report in no way signifies a lack of interest, nor does it mean that we are neutral in our attitude towards the problem of paedophiles, whom we firmly condemn.
It simply means that the text is inadequate on some points and ambiguous on others. , in writing. (SV) Mr President, the GUE/NGL Group could not support Mrs Karamanou' s report on child pornography.
The European Commission' s proposal offers very little analysis of the causes of the sexual exploitation of children and the consequences of such behaviour and back-pedals significantly on the measures that are proposed and an actual definition of child pornography.
We are in favour of this step, which confirms the need for a framework decision defending the need for strong and concerted action against the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, the latter having developed greatly as a result of the Internet and new technologies.
This battle must be fought on all fronts, because the consequences for children are disastrous, and from this point of view we support the argument that the possession of child-pornography material in itself constitutes an offence.
The main problem is to avoid a situation in which this vital battle against the sexual exploitation of children and against child pornography is used by supporters of a reactionary morality, resulting in excesses tending to abolish freedoms, in particular in relation to certain material containing sexual information, or certain types of fiction.
Perhaps this is a justifiable area for concern, but there is a real risk of going off the rails here.
The Commission must take responsibility for dealing with this unspeakable situation and negotiate with international organisations and governments to block the use of the Internet for illicit purposes. .
Europe must introduce stronger measures to tackle this disturbing subject and ensure that offenders are punished in a similar way across the European Union.
We have all heard of awful and tragic cases of child pornography and child exploitation across Europe.
Cooperation should be increased between Member States in the European Union through common penalties for offenders and police services working together across the Member States.
Our children are our most vulnerable citizens and we should make every effort possible to protect them.
Thank you for your answer.
To explain why I have voted for this report on combating trafficking in human beings, I have to tell you that I was in a Chinese restaurant in 2010.
Well, in 2010 I was in a Chinese restaurant and I had a very good meal.
In effect, the Commission, which is frequently accused of using its new powers of initiative, which it derives from the Treaty of Amsterdam, in a way that is too favourable towards immigration (in particular the proposals on reuniting families and on temporary protection), is seeking to clear its name by including, under the heading of trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation.
It claims that this is a contribution to the campaign to halt illegal immigration.
The offence of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation, as described in Article 1, does not require the illegal crossing of a border, and yet that is precisely the primary criterion in a case of illegal immigration.
The result is that this offence is defined in a vague manner, so that it can cover very different types of cases, and not just illegal immigration.
In these circumstances, these supposed provisions against illegal immigration, buried as they are in the campaign against exploitation of all kinds, including child pornography, cannot possibly be effective.
They serve merely to provide a trompe-l' oeil counterpart to other texts on immigration which are extremely lax.
We voted in favour of the text in order to express our condemnation of those who profit from this type of traffic or from the sex trade.
The Klamt and Karamanou reports are related in that they seek to harmonise definitions of sexual exploitation.
They call for a common definition and application of penalties relating to pornography in an age where the Internet has enabled sexual exploitation to transcend all frontiers.
Nevertheless, the report improves the Commission' s proposal considerably, and tables around fifty amendments, specifically indicating that trafficking in human beings must not just be punished, but that it must be expressly classified as a criminal activity.
These are the reasons why we are voting in favour of the report, although we are sorry that Commissioner Vitorino was not able to accept all of the proposals tabled by the European Parliament.
Those recitals in the draft which state that there is a need to take strong measures to halt trafficking in human beings, and the references to the UN texts, appear to us to be broadly correct.
The main danger lies in confusing trafficking in human beings with immigration and attempting to treat the two as one and the same thing.
We also voted in favour of those amendments which seek to classify as an offence what was originally called an infringement, in view of what trafficking in human beings means in terms of exploitation, humiliation, and physical and mental violence.
Europe needs to crack down on the trade in trafficking human beings.
Over 120,000 women and children are abducted from Eastern Europe each year to be brought into the EU for exploitation.
The European single market allows borders to be crossed, but we must do all we can to prevent such exploitation of our borders.
We can only vote against this heap of rubbish, which in its very first recital states that poor countries have 'possibilities to improve their economic situation, fight poverty...' , however little they know how to use this 'ICT revolution' .
Aparicio Sánchez report (A5-0122/2001) Mr President, I hope you and all the interpreters and officials who have had the patience to stay in the Chamber with me have a very good lunch.
I have voted for this report and it was my sister who suggested this explanation of vote to me.
We voted against this report in order to condemn the hypocrisy of a text which claims to oppose the renewed outbreak of thefts of cultural objects in the European Union and the illicit trade in such objects.
Mr Fatuzzo, before suspending the sitting, I would like to tell you something which I am sure will delight you: every second of every speech costs the European tax-payer EUR 9.65.
Ground level ozone is a serious air pollutant which creates considerable problems for public health and the environment.
Our group also supports Amendments Nos 5 and 23 which state that the targets must be entirely attained by 2020 at the latest and that they may not be exceeded by more than 20 days a year until 2010.
We have common targets for air quality and are currently negotiating with the Council to approximate the rules on national ceilings for emissions and large incineration plants.
The European Union is determined to play its part in reaching our targeted 8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions below 1990 levels over this decade.
We are all aware that President Bush is due to meet the European Union leaders in Göteborg this week.
I hope that the US President will come up with a firm proposal to outline how his administration intends to reduce the level of greenhouse gases in the immediate future.
We have a moral obligation to ensure not only that the quality of life of present communities is protected, but that the quality of life of future communities is protected also.
That is why it is so important that we all guarantee that we reduce the level of greenhouse gas emissions in Europe, the United States of America and elsewhere so as to achieve our objective in this regard.
The network must cover the whole of Europe, so that everybody can be properly informed.
However, we should be aware that it is difficult to reduce excessive levels in Spain, Greece and Italy, and that it is much more difficult in the countries of southern Europe than in those further north.
President Bush has arrived in Europe, and we should do all we can to make him aware of the responsibility which the United States also bears in this area.
This report excellently demonstrates why environment policy has to be achieved at a European level.
Indeed, in many parts of Europe, a great many of the problems about ozone are not necessarily a consequence of activities by that individual Member State.
We are setting target values that, by their very nature, will be almost impossible for many Member States to meet in certain given circumstances during the year.
The proposal sets target values and long-term objectives for ozone in ambient air.
As I mentioned earlier, this proposal is closely related to the proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings where conciliation negotiations are currently under way and we have to recognise the difficulty of finding a solution for linked issues, for example the target values for ozone, in the absence of a definitive outcome.
At its first reading in March last year, Parliament presented a well-considered report including 18 amendments.
Amendments Nos 4, 15 and the first part of Amendment No 23 all seek to turn the target values into binding limit values.
On the other hand we can accept in principle Amendments Nos 30 and 31 requiring binding target values, save where physically impossible.
With regard to the target values, it is not acceptable for the Commission to keep 20 days as the target value for the protection of human health.
The Commission agreed on Council's common position on national emission ceilings, which result in 25 days as an attainable target.
Therefore the Commission cannot accept the second part of Amendment No 23.
Moreover, Amendment No 23 would set 2020 as a binding target year to attain the long-term objectives.
However, the Commission agrees on the general aim fully to close the gap between long-term objectives and current ozone levels and could accept Amendments Nos 2 and 6.
Amendments Nos 26 to 31 would require attainment of the long-term objectives, save where physically impossible.
Several amendments would enforce the obligations of Member States to report to the public and the Commission.
The Commission welcomes these amendments if the requirements are considered feasible and useful.
The Commission therefore could accept Amendments Nos 8, the second part of 10 and 16.
Amendment 32 would complement Amendment No 17 in a way that is acceptable.
The first part of Amendment No 10 and Amendments Nos 18 to 20 and 25 are not acceptable.
Amendments Nos 12 and 14 both clarify responsibilities in setting up short-term action plans and are acceptable in part and in principle.
The last part of Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 13 are acceptable in stressing the role of guidance on examples for short-term actions.
The Commission accepts Amendment No 24, which supports a more effective trigger value to initiate short-term actions.
We can accept Amendment No 7 on tightening requirements to maintain air quality.
Amendment No 21 would require a direct comparison between the performance of Member States in improving air quality and the Commission could not accept this amendment as the proposed comparison is not considered appropriate, in particular, with regard to the transboundary nature of ozone.
Member States need to be able to identify problem areas, so that they can make sure that the public's health is properly protected in the future throughout the Union.
Hopefully a valid compromise will soon be found, having regard to the outcome of the conciliation negotiations on the directive on national emission ceilings.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Wallström.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
In the case in question, it is a matter of initiating proceedings to examine whether, in a dispute between Pernod/Ricard and Bacardi, a primarily Euro-Cuban holding and a primarily U.S.-European corporation, the EU is entitled to lend support as it sees fit.
The Council has come down clearly on the side of Pernod/Ricard in this dispute, and the Commission supports this position too.
We in the committee did not pronounce ourselves on this dispute.
Perhaps the main point, and the reason why we attach so much importance to this issue, is that section 211 of the Trademark Act is one of those cases that relates to our long-running dispute with the United States over the Helms-Burton Act.
As we all know, they have also been the object of discussion at the Intergovernmental Conference which concluded its work in Nice on 7 - 9 December 2000.
The changes to the text of the Treaty which this Intergovernmental Conference agreed on do not address this aspect of Article 133.
It should also be noted that the vast majority of Member States did not consider it necessary to amend the article in this respect.
At meetings with the chairman of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy in particular, the Council regularly informs Parliament of issues which are of importance to Community trade policy and in accordance with the Westerterp Procedure of 1973 the Council informs Parliament of negotiations concerning trade agreements with third countries before they are initiated, while they are underway and once negotiations have been concluded.
I also wish to note that Swedish Minister for Trade Leif Pagrotsky will hold two meetings with the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy during the Swedish Presidency.
Furthermore, representatives of the European Parliament were invited to the Euro-Mediterranean Ministerial Meeting on Trade on 29 May 2001.
What is more, the chairman of the Article 133 Committee invited all members of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy to an informal meeting on 31 May 2001.
We are responsible as a Parliament for scrutinising the implementation of the common trade policy, and we should be better equipped in future to perform that function.
Although the Commission keeps us informed, it is not enough for the Council, as it did through the Swedish Minister of Industry and Commerce, for example, to come to us and hold general discussions with us without involving us in consultation mechanisms such as the EU Trade Ministers' informal talks.
Secondly, the Council should enable the Commission to seek the opinion of Parliament prior to the conferment of a negotiating mandate, as in this Havana Club case, for example.
We could then begin a dialogue and bring it to a satisfactory conclusion.
Lastly, I must urge the Council, when it next revises the Treaty of Nice, which I hope it will do at the forthcoming Laeken summit, to reword Article 133 so as to involve the European Parliament in the framing of policy and the negotiation and conclusion of agreements on important trade issues.
This proposal is contained in paragraph 28 of the Mendéz de Vigo and Seguro report on the conclusions to be drawn from the Treaty of Nice, and we shall insist on the earliest possible introduction of this amendment to the EC Treaty.
Mr President, may I pick up on a point that Konrad Schwaiger has just made.
I too believe - and I am speaking here on behalf of my group - that there is a need to redefine the obligations of the Council in terms of its accountability.
However, I do not believe we are talking about formal procedures here, but rather about proper substantive political cooperation.
As far as proper cooperation is concerned, the Council is still falling far short of its duty to Parliament.
My wish for the future is that the Council, instead of constantly invoking the formal position, will find an interinstitutional procedure that enables us to engage in some decent cooperation in future in the field of trade policy.
It may be that a discussion or briefing session would be held after each meeting of the special committee referred to in Article 133(3).
Mr President, during the formal and informal debate on this issue over the last few weeks and months, both the Commission and the Council have indicated that it is not the business of the European Parliament to stick its nose into the substance of WTO cases.
The Council and the Commission have also indicated that they think it is none of the European Parliament's business to issue awkward declarations on issues which are basically sub judice.
It is simply inconceivable that the US Administration in Washington would rush headlong into yet another trade dispute with the EU without first ensuring there is a minimum of political backing in Congress.
Some Members of this Parliament feel it was irresponsible.
It is surely much more irresponsible to launch such a politically and commercially sensitive trade dispute without even a ritual nod towards the normal standards of transparency and political probity.
Mr President, others have talked about the issue of dispute settlement specifically.
This specific case demonstrates precisely the absence of democratic accountability in EU trade policy.
The Nice Treaty could have been an opportunity to begin to improve the democracy and transparency of EU trade policy but in fact the Treaty makes these matters worse by increasing the powers of the Commission but not balancing that by increasing the powers of Parliament via the codecision procedure.
Meanwhile at Council level the 133 Committee meets behind closed doors.
Furthermore in spite of all the rhetoric about trade policy supporting sustainable development, when you look at who attends the 133 meetings, it is usually simply the representatives from the trade and finance ministries alone.
If sustainability really is a key issue for the EU and if the Swedish Presidency is really serious about openness, could the Presidency tell us if first of all it envisages a formalised dialogue between Parliament and the 133 Committee, and secondly if it is ready to propose revisions to the composition of that committee.
Ultimately, in order to make it more likely that trade policy enjoys the support of both parliamentarians and the wider public, Parliament should in the longer term have codecision powers, not only on the final outcome of any new trade agreement but also crucially on the Commission's mandate for negotiations.
The European Parliament is responsible for monitoring the common trade policy.
I do wish, however, that the Council would also take joint initiatives with the European Parliament on the international stage, because these issues are of the utmost importance to our future.
Mr Schwaiger hopes to see changes as early as in Laeken.
This might be a little optimistic but, as I have stated, there will be an Intergovernmental Conference in 2004.
Naturally, openness and consultation can always be improved, but it is with a certain amount of regret that I note that, on two occasions during the Swedish Presidency when we invited dialogue on the issues I mentioned earlier, no-one attended from Parliament.
There is an English expression "it takes two to tango" , and this also applies in this context.
It only gives us cause to maintain this dialogue to ensure that we obtain a consultation procedure which respects what is set out in the Treaty.
As far as procedure is concerned, I would remind you that the decision to launch a procedure of this type at the WTO forms part of the executive responsibility of the Commission.
In order to make things quite clear and to add my own opinion to this debate, I would remind you, in case anyone needs reminding, that it was not a question of taking sides in favour of such and such a business, or in somebody' s individual interests, whether that would have been legitimate or not, but rather of assessing, from the point of view of the interests of the Union in general, the compliance of the American law on trade marks with the WTO Code.
That is why I believed, and I said so at the time before the Committee on Industry, that a parallel intervention by Members of Parliament in a WTO procedure seemed to me to be rather strange, even inappropriate, and I said at the time, and I shall say it to you again now, that I believe that a proper exchange of information between us should have the effect of avoiding any repetition of this type of incident in future.
That is the first point.
We in the European Parliament are no longer receiving sufficient information from you.
The first took place on 29 May and the second on 31 May.
Naturally, it is in the interest of the Council that we have a functioning informal dialogue with Parliament on these issues.
I have attempted to describe some of the measures taken by the Swedish Presidency.
I am convinced that the coming presidency will work in the same spirit.
The debate is closed.
For the rest, however, I have no trouble at all in joining in this debate because in this very area which we are now called on to discuss, that is ASEM, we also have to ensure that we have increased parliamentary participation.
That is why we ask in this connection in the report - and this is one of the most important requests that we make - that the Council and in particular also the Commission should keep the European Parliament informed of developments in this area.
If both groups - the European Union in Europe and ASEAN in Asia -, which are after all stable, work together with other states in Asia and manage to cooperate closely in such important areas as the three pillars identified within this process, namely political, economic and cultural dialogue, this can have undreamt-of implications for stability in these regions and throughout the world.
That is why I believe that we should take this ASEAN process as seriously as possible, place greater emphasis on it and make it a higher priority.
If, in addition, we manage to be active in the third pillar, in the area of cultural relations, by involving people, groups and those working in the cultural sector, and in this way bring people together, because cultural relations do after all lead to ties being formed, then this would seem to be a further important starting point for making a decisive contribution to greater stability in our world.
We call on the Commission to table specific proposals for the next ASEM conference in its working document on the development plan for the ASEM process in the next decade and to discuss these with us.
Commissioner Patten, I am sure that we will do this in a joint dialogue drawing on your experience in this region, so that we will be able to make a contribution to creating a better world.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with what the committee chairman has just said: the ASEM process is an important framework for dialogue between EU states and Asian states.
But, quite honestly, we should also admit that the results of the ASEM III Summit in Seoul last year were not so terribly significant.
Commissioner, I think that we are acting as allies when we ask you to table a report on the preparations for ASEM IV, so that both of us - the Commission and Parliament - as we say in Hamburg, have a bit of butter with our fish, that is, actually introduce some substance into the preparations for ASEM IV in Copenhagen next year.
We would ask you to provide us with a very substantial report as soon as possible so that we can debate with you, but also with the Council, which areas further negotiations should really focus on.
Irrespective of the geographical distance and cultural differences, there are major political points of discussion.
The EU does well to continue to underline the human rights issue, even in cases of social abuse.
The ASEM process, preferably enlarged to include a country such as India, must be more than a discussion forum.
We would also call for a far more intensive cultural exchange to prevent the ASEM process from remaining an elitist affair.
Asia cannot be compared to the European Union.
Europe can help improve regional perspectives, but that should not be at the expense of the direct involvement of the countries in that region.
Mr President, we already talked last year about ASEM' s Summit in Seoul and, on behalf of my group, I then expressed my disappointment at the outcome, not about ASEM as such, and certainly not about the Commission' s attitude or about that of our Commissioner, which bore witness to a vision and was very intelligent.
This is an important point, in our view.
That report is truly radical in its appeal for a coherent strategy aimed at more democracy and the development of the rule of law, which is also important for the development of the economy.
There is an entire region which is of importance to us, and expansion to include a country such as India, for example, would be crucial.
Mr President, this report has a somewhat turbulent history.
Initially it was a report which I in the committee saw as a diplomatic declaration of war on the People' s Republic of China, which was naturally not the intention.
In this situation I think it is quite unnecessary of us in the European Parliament to attack the Chinese population policy as one-sidedly as in point 21.
On the other hand I have understood that the People' s Republic of China sees this as us attempting to change practice and more or less indirectly begin to recognise the State of Taiwan, which is no-one' s intention.
For my part I will abstain from the vote on this point.
Relations between the European Union and this region must therefore be particularly prudent and positive and at the same time help towards a negotiated and peaceful solution to the problems which are the result of an immediate past originating in the Cold War, as well as the colonial past.
The objective should be to contribute to the world enjoying a multipolar situation in which international law, peace and economic and social development - which is just and balanced - should have increasing importance, and human, union and social rights and democracy should flourish as an everyday reality.
China' s access to the World Trade Organisation has been important and the European Union must therefore maintain a special relationship with China in this respect.
We therefore believe that, at the Fourth Summit in Copenhagen, parliaments, both European and Asian, must play an ever more important role as representatives of popular sovereignty.
It offers the Asian and European government leaders the opportunity of consulting each other every two years on truly strategic problems.
It is therefore no wonder that these smaller Asian States advocate a higher level of commitment by the 15 EU Member States to the ASEM process.
From this angle, the European Parliament makes anything but a constructive contribution to the ASEM process.
Mr President, Commissioner, in October 2000, in Seoul ASEM leaders gave a commitment to support human rights, democracy and the rule of law, as a cornerstone of future Asia/Europe cooperation.
In the past, too many Member States have paid lip-service to the idea, but where there is a choice between trade and defence of human rights, economic self-interest has always taken precedence.
Furthermore, where a small country is involved, we have been quick to criticise, but when the offender is a large country, such as China, our response has been much more muted and I very much welcome Commissioner Patten's recent remarks in this regard.
Therefore, I support the proposal contained in paragraph 10 of the report which calls for any state to be excluded which clearly fails to respect human rights, democracy and the rule of law from ASEM activities.
I also welcome the proposal for the political pillar of ASEM to encourage political dialogue in several areas, including between China and Taiwan.
If we want to play a role in this and want to be seen as honest brokers, then all Member States should follow the recommendation of this report and grant visas to the Taiwanese President and members of the government for private visits to the EU.
I welcome the reference to resolving the conflict in Sri Lanka given my recent involvement in this area as head of the EU electoral observation mission.
Over 70 000 Sri Lankans have died in this conflict since 1973 and any initiative to prevent further loss of life would be very worthwhile.
To conclude these brief remarks, I commend the Brok report to the House.
Mr President, this report makes it possible for the European Parliament to debate the ASEM process and comment on its results.
This new partnership between Europe and Asia gives both sides a golden opportunity to deepen and strengthen relations, in respect not only of the economy, but also political, social and cultural matters.
As early as the third ASEM Summit in Seoul political aspects such as human rights, democracy and the rule of law were successfully promoted from being the subject of a fruitful dialogue between the partners in the ASEM process to prompting relevant undertakings from leading ASEM politicians.
Our requiring Taiwan's politicians to have visas for private visits to Europe does not amount to recognition of the Republic of Taiwan or in fact anything at all; it is the pursuance of a consistent policy which Europe has on the freedom of movement of people, consistent in particular if in the future Taiwan were also to follow in China's footsteps and become a member of the World Trade Organisation.
Finally, Commissioner, I should like to draw your attention to an old demand of the European Parliament: we have always said that with a region such as Taiwan, with which we in Europe have very intensive economic relations, our relations are such as to warrant a representation, that is an information office, being set up there.
Mr President, rapprochement and cooperation will only be successful if we strive for mutual respect and partnership in the Asia process.
And we, whose job is to send a message not just to the nations of Europe with ideological and political problems, but to the entire world, must act as a force for peace, as a force for cooperation, as a force for progress and as a force for democracy by strengthening the procedures which civilise the world without creating conflict, without there being any cause for conflict and without starting by using military conflict or considerations in order to bring about democratic results.
Crass intervention in purely internal affairs in the countries in the area up to and including condemnation of the democratic policy of the People's Republic of China, a country which the European Union has obviously set its sights on.
It is particularly when I think of cultural relations and of the very fruitful work of the Asia-Europe Foundation in Singapore that I sometimes realise that there are more encounters involving schools, students, scientists and also managers than involving politicians.
That is why I should like to recall once more here that this European Parliament once said - and on one occasion it also made this a reality - that in the same way that there was a summit between governments there should be a summit between parliaments.
I believe that it is absolutely essential for contacts between parliaments in Europe and Asia to be intensified and that, before the next ASEM Summit in Copenhagen at the latest, we should put in place a stringent process to monitor these important joint political initiatives, even if some of them are based on conflicting principles.
I really believe that this is essential because both regions are playing an important part in reforming the United Nations and also the World Trade Organisation.
I think that both regions of the world have a responsibility here to put an end to this form of freedom of movement on this earth.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as this debate draws to a close allow me to point out that there are considerable expectations of the way in which the European Union acts in this important part of the world.
These expectations exist because there the power of the United States of America in terms of both the economy and security is an established fact and because China is next door and is gaining increasing influence.
If we behave there, not as colonialists as we did in the past, but as partners who are prepared to contribute their own experiences alongside those of another continent, we will be listened to.
The significant interest that this report has triggered also demonstrates how important Asia is for our Union, a point very well made by a number of speakers.
The Commission shares to a very large extent the evaluation and concerns expressed in the report, in particular those regarding the importance of further strengthening our dialogue with Asian-ASEM partners on political, as well as on economic and social issues.
Some of our Asian partners are more interested in having a predominantly economic dialogue, letting the political dialogue lag behind.
The Commission does not share this view and nor do other European partners.
Development cooperation itself is, of course, dealt with in other fora, but ASEM is and should remain a forum for dialogue among equal partners.
A few weeks ago I attended the third ASEM foreign ministers meeting in Beijing.
These very broad agendas - there were 19 items on our agenda for the foreign ministers' meeting - lead to a lack of focus.
For example, I had a very useful first exchange with the new Thai foreign minister and we also held European Union troika meetings with Indonesia and with China.
Another positive step forward is that our Asian partners seem more inclined to increase the involvement of civil society.
Perhaps it is time to go further and revive exchanges between parliamentarians from the ASEM countries, so I warmly welcome the intention to call a second Asia-Europe parliamentary meeting before the Copenhagen Summit in 2002.
The second occasion we discussed ASEM, there were three other Members of Parliament in the Chamber with me.
Today we have seen what can only be seen as an exponential growth in the interest in ASEM and I hope that before my five years are up on 22 January 2005 the Chamber will be packed when we discuss the relationship with ASEM and with Asia as a whole.
I note the request for a new working document in advance of the Copenhagen ASEM meeting and I hope we will be able to have something further to say on EU-Asia relations generally.
I expect to return to Parliament shortly to discuss a new communication intended to update the 1994 Asia strategy.
My own recent visit to China demonstrated the importance of the European Union there too.
We cannot have a frank political dialogue with China without having an equally frank exchange about human rights.
There are a number of subjects which we need to discuss in more detail.
There are many reasons for arguing, as the honourable Member did a few moments ago, that the relationship we have with Asia is an exceptionally important part of our external relations overall.
I very much hope that in the coming weeks and months we will have many further opportunities of discussing it in this House.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, despite the changes, or perhaps because of them, we in the Community institutions must reaffirm our political commitment to strengthening integration.
The European Parliament has often reiterated the need for the European Union to play a solid role on the international stage and to be able to speak consistently in that context.
To this end, the Maastricht reform drew up the CFSP and for the same purpose various proposals are currently being considered with a view to 2004.
Nevertheless, for the European Union to consolidate its external role, it is necessary, firstly, to organise and strengthen the external policy instruments which the Union already has and, in particular, its external service.
At that time, Commissioner Patten told this House that he would consider those recommendations very carefully and would prepare a communication on the external services during the first half of 2001, which we are eagerly awaiting.
However, while waiting for more ambitious initiatives, Parliament must now give its opinion on the latest communication from the Commission on the development of the external service, which clearly has a much more limited objective, since it basically focuses on the network of delegations and their staff.
It is a welcome communication nevertheless, since it allows us to open a debate on that important issue.
In this communication the Commission confirms its will to make progress on decentralisation and on the deconcentration of external aid.
This can only be seen as positive even though it requires greater human resources and therefore an increase in costs, which, I believe, we must contribute to.
With regard to the network of delegations, the Commission' s proposal to move ahead with regionalisation seems appropriate, although we must consider opening up new delegations in certain countries of South-East Asia, the Gulf region and Latin America, as well as Switzerland.
We hope that in the coming weeks the Commission will approve a new communication, a more ambitious one, which takes account of the opinions of Parliament and finally allows us to rationalise, organise and improve the external service, so that it may become an effective instrument for a solid European Union external policy.
The Committee on Budgets simply wishes to draw the attention of all those involved to two basic problems.
Reform means increasing deconcentration and grouping together a certain number of delegations which are fewer in number but better equipped administratively and extended by branch offices with minimum representation.
Secondly, reform means the active vertical redeployment of staff from Brussels to delegations.
Therefore, Commissioner, we expect you to proceed more quickly and further in this direction, which we know is the direction you wish to move in.
The second point that I should like to mention quickly is the budgetary aspect.
The Committee on Budgets is in favour of a qualitative reform which will give rise to higher costs, because redeployment has to be paid for, but the Committee on Budgets is against any increase in staff numbers in the external services.
He has prepared a splendid report, and I am, of course, also glad that he has accepted my action plan in its entirety.
I am, in general, very much in favour of the Commission' s plans to provide its delegations with more resources, more employees and more powers but, all too often, we have seen examples of 'champagne delegations' which have spent more time in diplomatic clubs than on their real work.
In the future, the work is therefore to be done out in the field.
The new system is still not in place, but 24 delegations have, for the time being, been given direct financial responsibility.
The idea of giving the delegations more duties and more responsibility does in fact operate in practice, but we have recently seen examples of fraud and irregularities in the delegations in the applicant countries.
The dissolution of political blocs and the changing political processes, including in developing countries, have considerably increased the political as well as the trade and economic dimensions of its work.
In practice, however, delegations in the ACP countries have been and are being threatened with downgrading or even closure.
The Committee on Development and Cooperation therefore sees a danger that the formation of new regional centres and the move towards regional offices - and good reasons can certainly be put forward in favour of this - could in practice lead to a thinning out of delegation structures in developing countries.
That they are also more effective has not, however, been verified.
I believe that it is precisely in Asia that we need more delegations.
This is an excellent illustration of the fact that the principles of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights work in Asia and are even something which the countries themselves want.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the matter we are discussing today is part of a much broader problem, one which involves not only the external image of the Community, but ultimately also the CFSP itself.
The situation of the Union' s external image has been subject to criticism from various quarters in the last few years and still requires a concerted effort to achieve a major transformation.
It is an opportunity for the European Union to improve its presence on the international scene, defending the principles of democracy and human rights, which give legitimacy to this objective.
We acknowledge that the concept of this reality underpins the Commission' s concerns to improve its external service, which have been put into practice by the adoption of various communications since 1996.
Although we must not lose sight of the fact that the issue we are considering today is actually very limited, improving and adapting the network of delegations, it has very real implications and, as I already emphasised, also affect the political and diplomatic spheres.
What is generally known as the deconcentration and decentralisation of external aid, and its rationalisation, therefore deserves our support, with the concomitant requirements for resources and technical support.
A further aspect is the importance of accepting certain political criteria, in particular, acknowledging the role of the various States in the processes of democratisation and in defending human rights in their own region.
Mr President, when you consider what happened under the former Commission, it might be said that there is not much to lose with this proposed decentralisation, and it is in any case crucial that something be done.
This report is in line with the priority shared by the majority of my group and of Parliament: to improve the European Union's presence on the international scene.
We see the development of an external service as an instrument to strengthen the EU's foreign policy, although of course we still have to educate our national services in some respects.
We are happy that the Galeote report includes our amendment asking the presidency-in-office to take some responsibility for verifying the willingness of Member States' embassies to cooperate with the EU delegations and enhance their role for creating a real common European voice.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Galeote Quecedo emphasises, in his explanatory statement, one essential point which was completely neglected in the Commission communication on the development of the external service, and that is the absence of any effective functional link between the embassies of the Member States and the Community delegations.
The Commission, as our rapporteur points out, quite rightly, 'does not appear to be aware' that cooperation with Member States' diplomatic services is 'totally inadequate' .
Effectiveness and subsidiarity, on the other hand, require that we should move beyond the partnership programme and its current failure, and show some initiative and imagination, so as to create a real osmosis, at the level of human resources, between the embassies of Member States and the Community delegations, in order to encourage the development, in harmonious complementarity, of the closest possible relations with our external partners.
Mr President, it seems to me that we need to distinguish two aspirations which are contained in the Galeote report and which to some extent lead in different directions.
I refer on the one hand to the need to improve the Commission's efficiency in achieving its priority tasks and on the other hand the ambition to create some sort of EU diplomatic service.
The draft Council regulation on the early retirement of some 600 officials is under consideration at the moment.
To this end, the Commission must be present on the ground, the officials must have direct contact with the reality of under-development, with the development agents and the local authorities, and very much increasing support for, and support from, both local and European NGOs.
The creation of delegations with a regional scope is not an acceptable alternative to the closure of delegations in countries such as Cape Verde or Costa Rica.
We also ask that the multi-annual programmes for delegations, announced by the Commission, take account of the development objectives, that local staff be employed, that the officials have specific training and that greater coordination between the Commission delegations and the representations of the Member States be sought.
I believe it would be very positive to open a delegation in a country such as Cuba, which is a pre-candidate to the signing of the Cotonou Agreement and which has been accepted for membership by our partners in the ACP Community.
Mr President, the European Parliament should support the process of decentralising the Commission services so as to bring the European Union closer to its partners.
We are therefore in favour of increasing the number of delegations and increasing their staff numbers in line with their increased responsibilities.
However, cooperation on development should remain the priority of the delegations in developing countries, in particular as regards the planning of aid programmes.
It is important that the representatives who negotiate on behalf of the Commission should be on the spot and in direct contact with the real situation.
In order to do this they should develop relations with the local NGOs and with society in general, so that they can get to know and integrate the priority needs of communities, and not only those of governments in these indicative programmes.
In addition to consultation, we must also increase the number of local agents in the delegations.
Finally, it is urgently necessary to recruit staff who are qualified in social and environmental matters, which have so far been the poor relations of the aid and development programmes drawn up in Brussels.
Finally, special attention must be paid, as the report notes, to arrangements governing relations between the external service and delegations and the European Parliament, both as regards having systemised contacts, with reports and appearances by the heads of the delegations in Parliament and its competent committees, and as regards some of the delegations taking on the job of providing assistance in connection with visits and missions by members of the European Parliament to third countries.
Mr President, I welcome the Galeote report.
It is quite appropriate that we should be reforming the Commission's foreign delegations and examining how they can perform in a much more efficient way, hopefully in the context of a much more coherent common foreign and security policy.
Firstly, with regard to my own experience with the Commission's delegation offices when I was in Sri Lanka, it was excellent to have it as a backup.
It must be made absolutely clear that any of our delegation offices are there not simply to have a cosy relationship with the local administration but to represent EU policy in the wider sense.
My third point, and I am sure it has already been made by my colleague, Georg Jarzembowski, is whether the Commission would respond positively to our repeated request for the establishment of a delegation office in Taiwan.
I can assure Parliament that the recommendations made in the report are extremely important for the Commission.
I also take them as an encouraging sign that Parliament shares our ambition to make the external service an even more effective instrument of our external policy.
In response to some of the points that were made during the debate, of course it is the case that our delegations and the embassies of Member States have to coordinate their activities far more successfully.
I also agree that it would be useful for heads of delegations to appear occasionally before the Committee on Foreign Affairs and other committees of Parliament when they are back in Brussels to report on recent developments in their host countries and the development of European Union policy and programmes there.
A second major concern of this Parliament is the so-called deconcentration of our operational activities.
That, as the House knows, is jargon for devolving authority and responsibility where it belongs, to the people in the field.
Last, but not least, accounting and management systems are being interconnected between headquarters and the delegations concerned.
More then 20 delegations will be strengthened this year, another 30 or so next year and the remaining ones in 2003 and 2004.
It does not mean many people second-guessing the people on the ground back in Brussels.
The problem of double emploi, the problem of whether or not we are really going to deconcentrate, is one I feel very strongly about.
Although I am the first to admit that there is still room for improvement in this area, serious efforts have been made and will be continued.
I had the opportunity to take a look at the training programme for our external staff and I was very impressed by it.
It covers not only policy areas such as trade and CFSP, but also practical day-to-day topics and modern management techniques.
In parallel, the EuropeAid Cooperation Office has set up a very ambitious training programme specifically for the deconcentration exercise.
Parliament may also be interested to know that the first pilot session of the European Diplomatic Programme, which is a common training programme for European diplomats sponsored jointly by the Member States and the Commission, has recently been assessed and deemed to be successful.
The second session is starting this autumn.
I am also aware that the House is expecting to be fully informed by the Commission on the redeployment of human resources, regionalisation of the network and the opening or closing of delegations - a point which I want to return at the end of my remarks.
Some of its points, such as the proposal that starting in June of this year each head of delegation signs an annual declaration that adequate internal controls have been put in place, will be considered in the follow-up to the recent discharge resolution.
Other points the House makes concerning, for example, mission statements, redeployment, new delegations, monitoring and evaluation will be tackled in the communication on the development of the external service, which we will be bringing forward shortly.
We take the reform and development of the external service very seriously.
I trust that we can count on Parliament's support and understanding in the work still ahead of us.
Secondly, ambition depends on being prepared to take tough political decisions in order to achieve your ambitions.
I also want to see us being prepared to take the tough political decisions that are required to modernise our external service.
But with great respect to the House, it is no good the House on one side telling me that we can never close a delegation; then on the other side people tell us that we should open new delegations and the whole House agreeing that there should be a limit on the number of delegations we can have.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken on Thursday at noon.
The generalised Community' s system of preferences (GSP) actually lies at the intersection between these two major policies of the Union.
On the other hand, the non-tariff barriers have grown in relative importance, and we are trying to deal with this question in relation to non-tariff barriers by giving a certain number of countries the financial resources to enable them to improve their institutional capacity and by concluding ad hoc technical agreements with them, such as mutual recognition agreements or agreements on veterinary or plant-health matters.
In the textile and agriculture sectors, developing countries often have comparatively large advantages, and there we are retaining tariff protection.
Then we also have certain tariff peaks which, despite the fact that we have made them less extreme - to a greater extent than they have done in the United States, for example - are still significant in some cases.
What the Commission is proposing, then, is the updating of the GSP in order to respond to three concerns.
The third concern is that we need to carry out a graduation process, in other words to deal with cases in which we are withdrawing the benefits of the GSP from countries with a high GDP, for products in which their competitiveness has been demonstrated by the relative level of their share of the market.
We believe that, in these circumstances, these countries can do without the GSP for those products, in which case 'graduation' offers new prospects for exports from other, less competitive developing countries, thus giving them a potential advantage in terms of development and the struggle against poverty.
We have carried out this updating of the GSP in order to try to find a balance between, on the one hand, the need to give a new, positive signal to the developing countries, to show them that we are determined to meet their expectations with regard to access to the market - this is a result of the 'Everything But Arms' initiative (EBA), hence the idea of recreating the preferential margins - and, on the other hand, the tactical ploy of retaining, with a view to the multilateral tariff-negotiations round, opportunities for additional access to the market.
The fourth and last arrangements are the 'drugs' arrangements for the countries of the Andean Pact and the countries of Central America.
These arrangements have been maintained and extended for a significant period of three years, until 2004.
The 'drugs' arrangements are very generous, very similar to the EBA initiative, because they consist in granting access to the Community market, at a 'zero' rate of tariff, for the most important industrial and agricultural products of these middle-income countries.
When I say 'middle-income' I mean with a per capita GDP, at current rates of exchange, of about USD 1 100 for Bolivia, and USD 4 600 for Venezuela, in other words well above the USD 700 per head in the least developed countries.
The primary objective of the 'drugs' arrangements is not to directly replace illegal coca crops, but to promote development for its own sake, to create jobs and to diversify industrial and agricultural production, an area in which these countries are falling behind to an extent which gives rise for concern and which is, in our opinion, one of the factors that encourages the expansion of the production and trafficking of drugs.
We are therefore proposing to our Andean partners the very close monitoring of their efforts with regard to the diversification of their exports, the anti-drugs campaign and the promotion of these social and environmental aspects.
We must remember that it would be difficult, otherwise, to justify the special nature of the arrangements that specifically apply to Latin America, to which we are linked by a political and economic partnership that is very ambitious compared with our relationship with other countries, and Asian countries in particular, which have a comparable level of development and are also facing the task of combating drugs but do not benefit from the 'drugs' arrangements.
We believe that, as well as being good things in their own right, the encouraging of sound policies, the monitoring that is carried out by the Commission and the resulting dialogue with each country are also the counter-concession which allows the 'drugs' arrangements to escape being called into question, even by a WTO panel, on the grounds that it creates unjustified discrimination between countries benefiting from the Community GSP.
We expect that at Doha our Latin American partners will be working in close cooperation with us in order to push ahead with the bilateral liberalisation and standardisation which should consolidate, rather than threaten, the 'drugs' GSP arrangements which are specific to the Andean Pact and Central America.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the EBA initiative, this proposal on the new Community GSP, which we are putting forward on the eve of Doha, confirms the priority which the Union intends to give, via the new round, to the integration of developing countries into the world economy, with the aim of achieving a fairer and more sustainable development, and the Commission needs your support in order to achieve this ambitious undertaking.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank Commissioner Lamy very much for this initiative.
We all know that we can only enjoy success in world trade if we offer products and services which are also actually bought.
In Europe we have 18 million employers in a labour force of 250 million.
Broadly speaking, there are two categories of obstacles, customs barriers, whether tariff or quantitative, and more technical barriers.
Beyond that, I think that for the time being, unless we run into any serious and dangerous problems over rules of origin, we should retain a certain number of formalities.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Lamy for his presentation.
One can always say it is never enough but do you seriously think you have any indications that this is going to attract more people into the scheme than before?
Finally, could you say little more about human rights violations as a whole?
This is an innovation which I would draw to your attention and which has the double effect of making the diagnosis more objective, if I can use that word, and also of giving the ILO a greater profile in this international social governance which is, as you know, one of our objectives.
What we already have in unilateral and bilateral form, where we have greater room to manuvre, must be translated into multilateral form, though probably in a more diluted form, in the multilateral negotiations in preparation for the Doha round, and you know what the Union' s mandate is there.
Finally, on the problem of human rights violations, we are dealing with this on the basis of the specific ILO conventions, and in particular the convention on forced labour and slavery.
This proposal includes temporary withdrawal in the case of slavery or forced labour.
Mr President, thank you for your comments, Commissioner Lamy.
We simply believe that, by increasing the margin and the advantage that they might gain from 'matching' these criteria, we can perhaps give some countries, who may be hesitating and who may be undecided between economic advantages and matters of principle, a nudge in what we believe to be the right direction.
In a sense, we are each making a contribution, the United States in various forms, in particular credits and operations, while our contribution is commercial in nature.
In addition, we are working, at this very moment, with the new administration in the United States of America, again at full stretch, to try to ensure that the summit between the United States and the European Union which is to take place next Thursday morning, at the European Council in Gothenburg, will be able, on this point, to give a signal that will help to demonstrate that the movement has now been launched.
Coordination is in the hands of Stephan Bodenkamp/ Christoph Klonowski of the German Federal Intelligence Service (Bundesnachrichtendienst).
In November 1999 Europol effectively joined the ranks of SENSUS partners Gesellschaft für multilinguale Systeme mbH (Multilingual Systems Company, Ltd) and the Italian firm Datamat.
Ladies and gentlemen, the response illustrates that there is an urgent need for democratic control of Europol.
I am indeed familiar with Article 30 of the Treaty on European Union, but there is no denying the fact that the case file is as it stands.
As we know, the Council adopted the Accession Partnership on 8 March 2001.
Turkey' s response came in the form of a national programme for implementing the legislation adopted by the Turkish government on 19 March.
The Council has noted that the Commission' s preliminary analysis proposes that, with regard to the political criteria, considerably more effort should be demanded in the areas of abolishing the death penalty and of cultural rights for all citizens regardless of origin.
In this context it is important to remember that the fact that something is included in the national programme for implementing legislation or that the legislation has been adopted is not sufficient.
The European Union makes greater demands than that.
The EU Troika, led by the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs, visited the region in February.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am naturally not entirely satisfied with your response.
Question No 3 by (H-0444/01): Subject: Bilingualism in Istria On 9 April 2001 the Regional Council of Istria (Croatia) adopted a regional statute which provides for parity between Italian and Croatian in all regional institutions and all procedures of administrative bodies.
Respect for and protection of minorities is a condition built into EU policy towards those countries covered by the Stabilisation and Association Process in South Eastern Europe.
Croatia is, as we all know, one of these countries.
Let me point out that the General Affairs Council of 11 June approved a progress report on the Stabilisation and Association Process, including an assessment of Croatia.
However, you leave it to me to confirm that respect for minorities is truly part of the founding spirit of the Union, as is respect for cultural diversity, and multilingualism obviously represents an immediate aspect of that.
The ominous fact is that the regional statute adopted by the Regional Council of Istria on 9 April has been suspended, giving the constitutional court a further year to check for any unconstitutionality.
I believe that the European Union is carrying out one of its many important initiatives, as this process and this agreement, even with countries which are not yet candidates for membership, enables us to follow developments and point out where we believe that developments are not progressing in the right direction.
The report adopted by the Council yesterday allows for a certain amount of optimism.
Mr Ortuondo Larrea is no doubt aware that it is the Commission' s responsibility to monitor conformity with regulations in the Common Fisheries Policy and if necessary take suitable measures and also propose new legislation for this purpose.
In this context, on 7 March 2001 the Swedish Presidency, the coming Belgian Presidency, the President of the European Parliament and the President of the Commission made a joint declaration which formally opened the debate on the future development of the EU.
The first contribution to the debate was made by Swedish Prime Minister Göran Persson, Belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt and President of the Commission Romano Prodi in order to inspire others to follow suit.
On the same day the Swedish Prime Minister wrote to his colleagues in the Member States and candidate countries, inviting them to take part, for example by contributing to the website.
We also highlight in this report certain trends which we believe can be seen in the debate with regard to the next phase of preparatory work for the next Intergovernmental Conference.
When it comes to fulfilling the undertakings in the declaration on the future of the European Union, it is up to the Belgian Presidency to continue reflecting on the initiatives needed for this process to continue.
On the contrary, the Swedish Presidency has followed the Nice Declaration fully in actively trying to stimulate an important debate on the future of the European Union through a wide range of initiatives.
I note the statements from the Irish government regarding the continuing process in Ireland.
Mr Nogueira Román, I am sure that you know the Rules of Procedure and that you may, therefore, only ask for the floor on a point of order.
Mr President, I wish to take this opportunity to express my great surprise at the fact that, in order to find out what is going on in Europe, I have to look at a specific Web page!
Question No 6 by (H-0456/01): Subject: Police action during the Gothenburg Summit EU summit meetings tend to be met with popular demonstrations which, in turn, provoke repressive police action.
Police action during the European Council in Gothenburg does not fall within the competence of the Council.
Question No 7 by (H-0483/01): Subject: Recording of details of members of the public in the SIS register in connection with the demonstrations in Malmö Demonstrations critical of the EU and EMU took place when the ECOFIN Council met in Malmö in April.
Let me point out that in accordance with Article 105 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement, responsibility lies exclusively with the Contracting Parties with regard to ensuring that reports entered into SIS are correct, up to date and legal.
As the author is not present, Question No 8 lapses.
Question No 9 by (H-0462/01): Subject: Danone and Marks &amp; Spencers closures If anyone was still harbouring the illusion that there was any life left in the 'mixed economy' and the 'European social model', the brutal cynicism evinced by the announcement of closures by Danone and Marks &amp; Spencers leave no doubt about the fact that those ideas have had their day.
With regard to the criticism which may have been levelled against the Community legislation, including the criticism that company management is not forbidden from deciding to close down unprofitable sections of their companies in situations where the company as a whole is profitable or that employers which have breached the requirement for information and consultation have not been punished sufficiently, the Council would like to state that it can only act on the basis of proposals from the Commission.
I would like to emphasise that the Council took a decision yesterday on the Commission' s proposal for a directive establishing a general framework for informing and consulting employees in companies operating at national level in Member States.
Mr President, Minister, I listened carefully to the reply that you gave and I too am pleased at the decision taken yesterday by the Council of Ministers for Social Affairs.
I would like you to provide clarification on this point.
I would also like you to explain the situation of non-British employees working in establishments in the rest of Europe between 2004 and 2009.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I, like you, welcome the decision that was taken yesterday in the Social Affairs and Employment Council to finally adopt this draft directive on information and consultation.
It is a great result for the Swedish Presidency.
As I said, we have worked long and hard on this issue in the Council, and we have had many difficult discussions.
In recent weeks, certain Member States such as Finland have declared their support for a tax of this kind, while a number of members of parliament (from Europe, Canada and the United States) have issued an international appeal in support of the 'Tobin tax'.
Question No 12 by (H-0486/01): Subject: Position of the Swedish Presidency regarding the establishment of a tax on international financial transactions Although the Swedish Presidency does not intend to take any initiative regarding consideration of the Tobin tax (as it stated in reply to the questions it was asked at the European Parliament's last part-session), can it nonetheless indicate the reasons which led Mrs Lena Hjelm-Wallen (Sweden's Deputy Prime Minister) to state on 23 March 2001 that she agreed with the Tobin tax?
Nor has the Commission put forward any proposal or other initiative on this matter for the Council to address.
Thank you for your answer.
It is said that this type of tax could only be effective if it were chosen and implemented by several countries or areas of the world.
It is certainly true but a first step in that direction is absolutely necessary in order to clamp down on financial speculation which is sweeping the planet, whereas new resources are urgently needed for investments to help people, particularly in developing countries.
You are aware that at the Conference on LDCs which was held recently at the European Parliament in Brussels, it was shown that 43% of people in these countries do not have access to drinking water, 50% of the population is illiterate, one child in six will not live beyond five years old, and that since 1990, the debt of the LDCs has risen from USD 121 billion to USD 150 billion, despite the Cologne initiative.
She is highly honoured to have become a weapon in the debate on the Tobin Tax, but she has asked me to say that the description by the honourable Member of her speech of 23 March was not complete.
Therefore, I am convinced that it will be possible to continue discussing this issue in an objective way.
At least we would have an answer if we could say that we had an independent study and it will not work.
As far as the Council is aware, there are already a number of independent studies of various aspects of the Tobin Tax.
The European Union and the Council played a leading role in this.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am also extremely disappointed by this answer.
What you are saying is that there is no room for innovation in financial matters, in spite of the volatility of the markets, in spite of the bad reaction to the crises which have hit us recently, including the crisis in Asia.
As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 13 and 14 lapse.
As the Council has already confirmed on several occasions before this meeting, human rights, including the rights of women, are an important part of the EU Accession Partnership with Turkey, which sets out the prioritised areas on which preparations for accession must be concentrated, bearing in mind the political and economic criteria for accession and the responsibilities of a Member State.
Among the medium-term priorities, the EU has particularly focused on the wording in the agreement stating that Turkey must "remove remaining forms of discrimination against women and all forms of discrimination on the grounds of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation" .
It is a fact that no progress is being made in reforming the civil code and we know that there were numerous incidents in the committee which tried to discuss this reform.
The Council hopes that the sanctions based on Security Council Resolution UNSCR 1333, and which the Council has implemented through the equivalent Common Position and EC Regulation, will help to reduce external involvement and promote a negotiated settlement of the Afghan conflict.
I would like to know whether, from your experience in the Presidency of the Council, you think there may be any possibility of creating an international peace committee made up of the parties currently involved in the conflict in Afghanistan.
These parties have previously been in government in Italy but not since the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty.
Those measures were justified on the basis of Articles 6 and 7 of the Amsterdam Treaty concerning the Union's common and fundamental values.
In September, the sanctions were lifted after a group of wise men had carried out a study of Austria's conduct.
According to the Treaty of Amsterdam, the EU is a union of common values, as set out in Articles 6 and 7.
It was not the Council which took part in deciding on measures against Austria, but a decision taken by the 14 Heads of State and Government on an ad hoc basis.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I should first like to thank you for clarifying that the sanctions against Austria were not imposed by the Council or any other European institution.
I believe that this is very important because of course the decision of the Heads of State and Government had no legal base and was made without hearing the aggrieved party.
As the author is not present, Question No 18 lapses.
I would like to remind everyone that Council Regulation (EC) No 974/98 states that the euro must be put into circulation from 1 January 2002 and that the participating Member States are responsible for ensuring that suitable sanctions are in place for counterfeiting euro notes and coins.
On 29 May 2000, the Council adopted a framework Decision on using penal and other sanctions to increase protection against counterfeiting in connection with the introduction of the euro.
In order to add to and strengthen this, particularly with regard to taking action against euro counterfeiting through close cooperation between the authorities of Member States, the European Central Bank, the national central banks, Europol and in the future also Eurojust, the French government tabled, on 22 December 2000, a draft Decision on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting.
As the honourable Member knows, Parliament gave its opinion on the draft on 3 May 2001.
The draft, which is in the process of being approved, is linked to the draft Council Regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and the draft Council Regulation extending the effects of the latter regulation.
Parliament also gave its opinion on all these regulations on 3 May 2001.
At the meeting of 29 May 2001, the Council agreed to divide the draft decision tabled last year into one draft for a Council decision and one draft for a framework decision.
The European Parliament will be urged to give its opinion on both these drafts.
Mr President, we have a long catalogue of action by the Council and the Commission to deal with the problem of counterfeiting of the euro.
According to a report in the Financial Times on 22 May, Europol apparently thinks that these measures are still inadequate.
Substantial counterfeiting will engender the severe risk of global damage to the whole credibility of, and confidence in, the euro.
As the author is not present, Question No 20 lapses.
Question No 21 by (H-0490/01): Subject: Follow-up to second Interinstitutional Conference on Drugs Policy in Europe On 28-29 February 2000 the second Interinstitutional Conference on Drugs Policy in Europe was held.
On the basis of the Commission' s proposals, on 5 June 2001 the Council adopted a regulation amending the previous regulation laying down measures to be taken to discourage the diversion of certain substances to the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, to extend the definition of scheduled substances to natural products which contain such substances, extend the cooperation between Member State authorities and the chemicals industry to also cover non-scheduled substances and to give the Commission responsibility for drawing up guidelines to aid the chemical industry in achieving the aim of the aforementioned cooperation.
The EU is currently developing its activities in partnership chiefly with important countries of origin and transit countries in order to combat the illicit drug trade.
With regard to Latin America and the West Indies, the third top-level meeting within the framework of the cooperation and coordination mechanism has just started in Cochabamba in Bolivia.
In addition, Europol has opened negotiations with 23 countries on entering into cooperation agreements.
Most cooperation systems are concentrating on measures against illicit trade in drugs, seaways, control of synthetic drugs and increased police and customs cooperation.
As with all of these questions, the real substance is hidden elsewhere within the question.
In particular, I would like his views on the reflections of the Europol expert who said that there was no effective cooperation or coordination because of a series of political, legislative and judicial problems.
Among the 15 Member States we have various legal traditions in this area.
During our Presidency we have, for example in an informal meeting between justice ministers and interior ministers, tried to contribute to a process in which we converge in our views in this area.
As we have reached the end of the time allotted to Council' s 'Question Time' , Questions Nos 22 to 31 shall be replied to in writing.
The budget for this Regulation in the Commission' s proposal is reduced from EUR 40 million for the first five-year period to EUR 34 million for the second five-year period, from 1997 to 2001.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is once again proposing an increase in the budgetary contribution to EUR 44 million, in line with the increase in forested area and the cost of living.
The amendments therefore propose increasing the budget to EUR 77 million, which I believe to be fully justifiable, and which we must not give up on under any circumstances, since at stake is the protection of the landscape, of nature, of biodiversity, of traditional cultures and multifunctional activities and, at the end of the day, of what we see when we close our eyes and think of forests.
In Europe, 60 million hectares are stated to be at risk of fire.
I therefore ask the Commission to declare its acceptance of these arguments in the coming proposals so that the Members of this Parliament can accept this report at this second reading.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, negotiations and discussions on these proposals for draft regulations on the protection of the Community's forests against atmospheric pollution and fire have been ongoing within our institutions for almost two years.
The original purpose of these proposals was simply to change the legal basis of the existing regulations in this sector following a ruling of the European Court of Justice.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The difficulty of this proposal is finding a situation of optimal balance which makes the work of companies easier, particularly SMEs, although the directive is aimed at all business in the European Union, and yet does not lead to a loss of income or make it more difficult for tax administrations to carry out audits.
We would do well to bear in mind that income from VAT is not only a very important source of income for national budgets, it is also one of the own resources for funding the European Union budget.
We must, therefore, welcome the proposal to replace this patchwork of rules with a single list of compulsory statements, which will mean, in practice, that a trader would have to comply with only one set of rules for all invoices issued to customers in the EU.
Thirdly, the introduction of a common set of rules for E-invoicing will also further the development of electronic commerce in Europe, not least as regards services provided by electronic means.
One aspect concerns an amendment tabled by my colleague, José Manuel García-Margallo y Marfil on the numbering of invoices.
The Commission is proposing a single number and I propose that this number should be sequential, in one or more series.
I feel that this must have been Mr García-Margallo y Marfil' s intention, but the version that has been adopted says exactly the opposite.
I agree with the Commission' s proposal that the authenticity of the origin and integrity of the contents of invoices must be guaranteed by means of an advanced electronic signature within the meaning of the European Parliament and Council directive on a Community legal framework for electronic signatures.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs voted against this proposal, or rather, tabled an amendment to remove this proposal.
The level of security chosen by the Commission can currently be bought on the Belgian market for around EUR 15 per year.
Parliament and the Council have adopted a directive to ensure that use is made of this simplified electronic signature.
What I mean is that this is a good proposal and that Parliament' s amendments are all - with the exception of these two examples - a step in the right direction.
I believe that it fulfils four of the fundamental objectives relating to simplifying administrative obligations.
As she has said, the harmonisation of the requirements for information to appear on the invoice will mean that traders operating within the single market will be subject to a single legislation, while until now they have had to know, comply with and apply fifteen different legislations.
It is true - I agree with the rapporteur and the Commission in this respect - that the issuing of a traditional invoice is three times as expensive as the issuing of an electronic invoice.
Fourthly, I believe that this proposal, while achieving these objectives from the point of view of the simplification of formal obligations, savings in the financial costs to companies and the strengthening of electronic services, in no way jeopardises the administrative control necessary for the application of the tax.
However, I would like to say that the amendment which we are presenting in relation to the sequence has not in my view been properly understood by the rapporteur.
What we are saying is that it should not necessarily be sequential, and there could be different sequences or collections by client or by country, in order to favour identification from the point of view of the company and, probably, also from the point of view of the administration.
I also share the rapporteur' s regret, which this Parliament makes abundantly clear every time valued added tax is discussed: the Commission lacks audacity when it comes to progressing towards a definitive system for value added tax, which would simplify it enormously and which, at a time of so many problems for European integration, would provide clear and firm backing and a clear message that we are prepared to turn value added tax into what its founder, Maurice Lauré, called the first European tax.
This is a modest step, since it only involves administrative obligations, formal obligations, that is, certain secondary aspects of the tax, but it seems to me a step in the right direction.
And that report has been greatly improved since passing through committee thanks to the generosity of the rapporteur, who has accepted a good number of amendments.
The procedure we are now undergoing is a consultation procedure, it is modest, but this committee - given the number of amendments it has presented - has worked very seriously on drafting this report.
Madam President, not every Council initiative seeking to harmonise tax rules works to the benefit of the public.
For this reason we can support these amendments which contribute to a genuine simplification of our tax legislation.
Our Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is also already proposing, in its first amendment to the Commission' s proposal, that the national authorities which have the authority to act must always ensure that complying with this directive will not cause SMEs additional, unnecessary administrative burdens.
This proposal stems from the SLIM exercise, during which traders themselves identified the current divergent rules on invoicing in Europe as a major obstacle to the smooth running of the internal market and the development of electronic commerce.
It is an important element of the new VAT strategy adopted by the Commission last June focussing, in the short term, on simplifying and modernising the present VAT system.
The second problem is that the current legal framework for electronic invoicing also differs across Europe.
Hence the need to set up a common legal framework, for both paper and electronic invoicing.
That is why the objectives of the present proposal are the following: firstly, to create a common set of 12 obligatory VAT requirements on invoices across the European Union; secondly, to set up a common legal framework for electronic transmission and storage of invoices.
Moreover, I should like to stress that this proposal will also enable tax administrations to carry out tax audits more efficiently.
But I should also like to stress that the electronic signature is an important tool in securing the authenticity and integrity of what is, after all, a valuable commercial document granting the right to VAT deductions.
But such a date could only be decided once the Council has reached agreement on the content of the proposal.
The Council has already started to discuss the proposal in detail and it will do its best to come to an agreement before the end of this year, as requested by the Stockholm Summit.
In conclusion, Parliament's support for this proposal is important in order to achieve a good result.
Although we shall be voting against this report, it is not in order to oppose harmonisation, but in order to express our opposition to the very existence of value added tax, and, more generally, to any indirect tax on consumption.
In a country such as France, VAT makes up almost three quarters of the government' s revenue, in other words, twice the amount of tax on salaries.
We are in favour of phasing out all forms of indirect taxation throughout Europe and of replacing it with a consistent increase of tax on company profits, as well as a tax on income, which increases steeply, particularly on high income from capital.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
As many Members will realise, this is the second phase in the reform of the Commission, a reform which this whole House has endorsed previously.
If we believe in the reform process, we must endorse this second phase, which concerns the introduction, on a one-off basis, of the early retirement scheme for officials within the Commission.
If we believe in enlargement to accommodate the officials from accession countries, we must reduce the number of existing officials and do so within the existing budget.
Madam President, I would like to thank Bill Miller for a very comprehensive and thorough piece of work.
It is a pleasure to see our roles reversed, since he shadowed me on the report on the overall strategy for the human resource reforms that this House approved at the end of last year.
It is encouraging that the Commission realises that this crucial step towards an entirely new human resource policy, means creating a whole new culture where people are promoted on merit, where we have a linear grading structure, where there is not an artificial ceiling for promotion, where there is much more delegated accountability.
The question we have asked in our committee, and the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets have also looked at this, is whether this is the right package.
Finally, I wish again to support the amendments that extend the application of this scheme to both the European Parliament and the political groups.
Therefore, the officials should not be pursued, as it appears these last minute amendments intend to do, but this Community administration should be rapidly transformed without abandoning the essential principles of recognising an independent civil service and recognising an administrative career path.
When we have spent the whole day talking about the Irish referendum in the corridors and when we are always talking here about proximity to the people, may I please ask who can actually explain to a pensioner who has paid into a pension scheme for 40 years why a 50-year-old A3-grade official should be given EUR 5 500 to go for walks in the country?
Neither is anyone able to tell me why this should now be an essential component of this Commission reform.
According to the Commission, part of that deficit can be made up by rationalising and redistributing the existing workforce.
As the House may recall, in our reform strategy White Paper in March last year we announced our intention to undertake a reallocation of human resources across departments in order, specifically, to concentrate activities more precisely on core policy objectives and to achieve a better balance between the tasks assigned to the Commission and the resources available to it.
In addition to measures which enabled redeployed staff to perform other higher priority activities, we also proposed that explicit termination of service arrangements should be made available so that over a two-year period the Commission could offer reasonable severance conditions to 600 officials whose skills are not easily adaptable to the changed and changing needs and tasks of the institution.
The purpose of the proposed regulation being considered by the House is, therefore, to authorise such a termination of service scheme for 300 Commission officials in the course of this year, and another 300 in the course of next year.
The difference between the cost of the total remuneration of 600 officials before termination of service and the cost of the allowance they will receive afterwards will finance the recruitment of 258 new officials.
The 342 remaining posts will be given back to the budgetary authority.
It will also ensure that the ceiling of Heading 5 of the financial perspective is fully respected.
The amendments that I have just listed are also aimed at ensuring that further single measures of this kind should in future be unnecessary and, therefore, precluded.
The House will know that the most important political points in the discussions on this early retirement scheme that have so far taken place in the Council and in Parliament relate to the fact that the proposed scheme only concerns the Commission, which is committed to implementing the scheme in a budgetary neutral way.
In this context, I refer to Amendments Nos 1- 6, 12, 13 and 16, all of which seek to extend the field of application of the proposed regulation and require the participation of all European institutions and of Parliament's temporary staff in the early retirement scheme.
I understand the interest of Parliament and Council as employing institutions in this matter and, as Members of this House will know, I am not unsympathetic to their objectives.
However, I wish to say most emphatically that, if progress is to be made to everyone's liking, budgetary neutrality must be observed in all of the institutions that implement a scheme of this kind.
Secondly, if the Commission alone guaranteed budgetary neutrality, the adoption of the scheme by the Council would be very unlikely indeed.
Taking these realities into account, it is clear that the success and the acceptance of the whole early retirement scheme may well depend on all institutions' accepting budgetary neutrality.
I am sure that that constructive attitude will continue to characterise our discussions on reform, since as honourable Members know, I regard the understanding and support of this House for all our reform proposals to be absolutely critical.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
This is a further element in what is a most crucial package of legislation that is now being considered by Parliament to create a single regulatory framework for electronic communications.
I am not proposing to accept any further amendments to the text, even though a number have come in rather late in the day from the Socialist Group.
It is a very comprehensive text because it contains four distinct measures.
It has a number of crucial measures related to market intervention and the ability of Member States to intervene very directly in the market place, and to set retail pricing for example.
They are there for the time in which the market is still being directly regulated, but this whole package envisages a time when the entire market will operate under normal competition aspects.
In the area of users' rights it has been important to strike the right balance between a text that will be agreed centrally at European Union level and detailed work that should be done in the Member States.
Some of the amendments contained in our opinion have been incorporated into the text, as he has said.
Others, however, have not been accepted, but have been accepted for voting in plenary by Mr Medina Ortega.
The model of society developed by the Treaties has enshrined the predominance of competition and the market, but the thing that makes us proud of Europe, the thing that makes our social model unique in the world, is the compatibility of these principles with two irrefutable values or circumstances: our high degree of social protection and the strength and breadth of our general interest services.
The Committee on Culture' s amendments have several objectives: to further develop the obligation to transmit to electronic communication networks, to impose information and transparency obligations on the companies providing these services, to increase the protection of disabled people, particularly the visually and hearing impaired, as users of these communications and, finally, to separate, from a legislative point of view, infrastructures and content in the audiovisual sector.
I hope that the rapporteur and his group will be generous enough to accept these amendments.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, even if they are included in the same directive, universal service and consumer protection are two areas which are, admittedly, related and important, but they are different.
The amendments voted in committee are a step in this direction.
Universal service requires a definition at a given time, but it also requires the means and mechanisms to ensure its development over time.
Lastly, I would reiterate that it is independent of the legal nature of the company that provides it.
I welcomed the European Commission' s text, but I remain convinced of the need for a framework directive for all European universal services.
Madam President, this is a report of extreme significance, for it regulates the rights of citizens in relation to the duties of companies.
That is why, of course, Article 13 is of major importance.
Secondly, Article 16 is important and, on that score, I am completely dumbfounded at the fact that the Socialist Group should table an amendment to confine the whole issue of number portability to the fixed network.
I wholeheartedly agree that interventions in the market or in the price structure, such as we carried out with regard to international roaming, must form an exception.
A third fundamental point is caller location information where 112, our European emergency number, is concerned.
Finally, Madam President, you and I enjoy watching all kinds of programmes, also using set top boxes, and if we then fall victim to, let us say, one large consortium, then it is no longer possible to do that.
We fully accept a process which contains of good number of progressive perspectives.
One of them is that, when a sector is liberalised, the greater the number of companies amongst which the market is distributed, the more the concentration of economic power is being limited, and this is a progressive objective which these benches fully accept.
The Right insists, and always in defence of companies, that these universal service obligations should be as limited as possible.
It is true that the report has positive aspects, and we are going to support those positive aspects without any doubt, but in other respects, it contains proposals which we find unacceptable.
To remove the reference, as in Amendment No 2 of the report, to the concern about the dominant position which the former monopolies maintain within liberalisation processes, seems unacceptable to us; to remove the Commission' s phrase that lays done that services must be provided at an accessible price, does not seem acceptable.
Neither does it seem to us acceptable to vote against, as happened in committee and which has been said will happen now, certain amendments which propose, for example, that a change in telephone service provider should not mean a change in the customer' s number and that, if it does happen, it should be done without cost to the user and at a more than accessible cost.
Balance in this report is important.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too should first like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, Mr Harbour.
Much has already been said about the content of the directive and I only wish to focus on what I feel to be the essential points.
It is now important to apply this directive consistently as quickly as possible so that a sufficient number of broadband connections can be made available quickly and at a reasonable price.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has tabled one amendment, Amendment No 9 on Article 4a), which unfortunately, in my view, takes us in the wrong direction, namely by including high-speed Internet access in the universal service obligations after all.
I believe that this is an information measure which will also promote our internal market.
We all know the importance of the entire Telecom package for the future competitiveness of Europe.
The Commission shares the view that universal service is not just about getting geographical coverage right.
First, on the scope of universal service: the Commission supports the Harbour report on the proposed scope of universal service.
The Commission welcomes amendments for the chapter dealing with the regulation of SMP designated operators, but cannot support provision such as "at least annually imposed on NRAs" in Amendment No 24.
The framework must remain flexible and NRAs must be in a position to react to market conditions as they develop.
However, the Commission would link any intervention to the general objectives of the package rather than to well-justified complaints.
With respect to the chapter on users' interests and rights, the Commission welcomes the support for the provisions of the directive and endorses Amendment No 31 to require operators to include prevailing tariffs in contracts with subscribers.
This would introduce competition between operators as well as create pan-European services and markets.
However, the Commission believes that other amendments to this article duplicate other provisions in the package and are therefore not necessary.
In conclusion, therefore, as far as amendments in the report are concerned, the Commission can accept in full Amendments Nos 4, 6, 8, 10, 15 to 20, 22, 27, 29, 36, 38, 39, 46, 49, 53, 57, 58 and 60.
The Commission can accept in part or in principle Amendments Nos 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 to 14, 18, 21, 23 to 26, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 37, 41, 42, 44 to 47, 50, 52 and 54.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 34, 40, 43, 48, 51, 55, 56, 69, 61 and 62.
In conclusion, the fact that the Commission accepts 50 of the 62 amendments in full, in part or in principle, indicates a most agreeable parallelism of thinking between Parliament and the Commission, which is reflected in the discussions that are taking place in the Council.
This convergence between the three institutions follows from a sense of a shared vision and commitment to which the European Parliament has an opportunity to make an important contribution in its vote tomorrow.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Since 1998, these statistics have also included the area of insurance services.
This list of areas allows you to see the importance of extending structural statistics, which will enable us to evaluate the development of the internal market in financial services, as well as the effect of the introduction of the single currency on the development of the internal market and on competitiveness and internationalisation of the sector.
Given all the years that we have spent in this House debating the single market in pension funds, and all the months that we have spent examining the first proposal for a directive on institutions for occupational retirement provision, I do not have to convince you of the need for us and other political decision-makers within the European Union to have reliable information in this area as well, such as information on the number of pension schemes, the number of businesses with members working in another country of the European Union, even within the European Economic Area, but also the number of members, by sex, of these funds or retirement institutions which complement the second pillar.
I have presented some amendments which received the unanimous blessing of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, to ensure that all these breakdowns will not be optional, as the Commission proposed, but that they are compulsory, and that the data regarding employment will also be broken down by sex, since I am a member of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, and I now always try to take a mainstream approach in my reports with regard to these issues.
As you know, political decision-makers who are badly informed make bad judgments and take bad decisions.
The Commission' s proposal contains a second part, which seeks to add two additional variables on environmental protection expenditure, on structural statistics on industry, the construction and trade sectors.
I would like to point out that a long transitional period is also planned and that small businesses may, in general, be excluded from the studies, because their impact on environmental protection expenditure is minimal.
I would also like to add that the data compiled by Eurostat are also used for sustainable development indicators.
The first obligatory reference year and the deadline for transmission will be determined at a later date in line with the commitology procedure, which we hardly support, but which, in this case, seems to be the most reasonable and is, therefore, perfectly acceptable.
This is not always the case when new information is required, but it is true that the timescales proposed for this introduction are reasonably acceptable.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
At the beginning of 1999, following a study, the Committee responsible sent a reply to these petitions which could be summed up as follows: the results of currently available scientific evidence do not seem to justify a ban of silicone implants.
Attached was information on the position of third countries and European Union Member States on this issue.
In March 2000, the European Parliament Directorate-General on Research, sent the Committee on Petitions a working document on silicone breast implants.
Given the complexity of the problem and without wishing to end the investigation into such distressing petitions, Parliament requested STOA to carry out an independent scientific study and, in May 2000, Doctor Moreno presented his conclusions, giving three options.
The third option was not for a complete ban, but the adoption and implementation of critical specific measures to develop and improve information for patients, tracking and surveillance, quality control and assurance and fundamental research.
Its main recommendations are that all patients should have access to information free of charge, any advertising for breast implants should carry a health warning, surgical operations should be very strictly monitored, a database on implants should to be set up, research and development should be undertaken and there should be a ban on breast implants carried out for aesthetic reasons in patients under 18 years of age.
Madam President, this is the first time that the Committee on Petitions has presented a resolution to the House which is a direct result of requests from the citizens of the European Union.
Madam President, it is very late, there are very few of us here and I guess all of us are very tired this evening, but actually we are striking a blow in this debate for a citizens' Europe.
A scientific study was inaugurated under STOA, Parliament's assessment panel.
All this was achieved by the free opportunity that all citizens have across Europe to bring to their concerns before this European Parliament.
Mr President, over seven years ago a woman walked into my office in Glasgow.
However, most of them recognise that at the moment there is not enough evidence to ban silicone implants so they are happy to settle, at this point in time, for stronger rules and regulations governing this whole question.
When we talk about the quality of the implants we also have to talk about the safety of the implants.
Madam President, I wish to express thanks to you, the rapporteur and my Scottish colleague, Bill Miller, for bringing matter before the Petitions Committee.
The issue of silicone gel breast implants is a sensitive one and this debate, as many have said this evening, is long overdue.
It gave a chance to the citizens to come with their serious problems and concerns.
The draft resolution has a strong independent scientific basis in the report drawn up by Professor Moreno at the request of Parliament.
The draft resolution reflects the consensus between our institutions and Member States, with whom we have been discussing the subject over the last few months and who share our concern to improve the situation that was highlighted in such an impressive way by the petitioners.
The Commission will adopt a communication on breast implants within the coming weeks, before the end of July.
Our communication intends to reinforce the implementation of the medical device directive on issues such as conformity assessment, standardisation, monitoring, clinical data etc.
It also addresses recommendations to Member States that fall under the chapter of health policy, in particular on the highly important issue of informed patient consent.
The debate is closed.
