Meanwhile, however, many Member States have been protecting their monopolies for many years, and so they have had the money to penetrate the markets in those Member States which opened up their markets on time.
Nevertheless, these directives are already obsolete.
This will allow it to create incentives for access to the market for all kinds of new inventions and alternatives, and also competitors.
Some amendments have been made to my report.
My colleague, Mrs&#160;Riera Madurell, and I drafted three of them, which can be kept in the form of these summarised versions, as compromises.
I hope this approach will be looked upon favourably.
It is very encouraging to see that Parliament shares the Commission’s main concerns and the policy priorities for the information society over the next five years.
As the various committees and rapporteurs have shown, it is very difficult to predict today how the information society of tomorrow will look, and that is why we opted for a broad and ambitious strategic framework, instead of a detailed action plan, because this strategic framework allows for review and adjustments in response to emerging challenges.
So, it must be technologically neutral and supportive of competition, and at the same time Member States must implement fully the existing regulatory framework which, unfortunately, is not always the case, but you know that I am fighting to get that done.
Our shared priorities also include support for the EU’s creation and distribution of European content, the protection of intellectual property, the promotion of security and the protection of users against harmful content.
Together with Parliament I would urge the Member States to use their national reform plans in order to address their own ICT priorities, to improve their public services, such as e-government initiatives, where I see a lot of progress in the move to invest more in the exploitation of ICT in public-sector services.
I agree with you on the crucial importance of the Internet for an economy based on information.
The Commission, together with Parliament, will proceed by organising a forum later this year.
Ownership issues are a matter for Member States: they must take their responsibilities and exercise them in an effective manner in line with the subsidiarity principle.
The flexibility of the action plan allows us to add initiatives whenever necessary.
The latest one I took involves consultation on RFIDs, which bring together economic necessity and the necessity to protect the privacy of our citizens.
In this context, the scant presence of women in the fields relating to these technologies demonstrates that there is a real digital gender gap in the European Union, which has clear repercussions in terms of employment and which must be dealt with by means of specific actions.
We are calling for special attention for women living in rural, isolated and geographically remote areas, for whom information and communication technologies may provide an effective means of participating in economic, political and social life.
In this regard, we would ask that all legal and technological initiatives necessary to put an end to it be promoted. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, this report constitutes a significant advance towards an understanding of the concept of an ‘information society’.
If there is one decisive area in terms of the implementation of the Lisbon Agenda, it is the information and communication technologies, which constitute a priority issue for this House and for the European institutions.
If we are to combat this problem effectively, we need to tackle all of its various aspects, both technological and socio-economic.
The aim of the i2010 strategy is to develop the effective use of the goods and services provided by ICT and to encourage active and critical participation in the information society for all and to everyone's benefit.
This plan of action is therefore particularly to be welcomed.
The EU must therefore increase investment in research and urge the Member States to do the same.
It is therefore vital that we build an information society based on inclusion, and on broad take-up of information and communication technologies in public services, SMEs and households.
The success of the i2010 strategy requires the European Commission to put forward proposals to make these technologies accessible to all citizens, taking account of the crucial role given to the regions, to safeguard the principles of freedom and pluralism of the media, and to set out clear actions to protect against illegal and harmful content and to protect minors and human dignity, while also protecting privacy.
The Commission also needs to put the emphasis on effective use of ICT in public services, particularly in health and education.
Finally, although I am in favour, in the medium term, of opening up the market following a period of transition towards the implementation of general competition rules, I would point out that the Treaties define the rules for free competition, and at the same time call for economic, social and territorial cohesion.
Freedom of competition in the field of ICT must not result in the private sector refusing to invest in unprofitable infrastructure.
The role of states and regions will therefore be a determining factor in encouraging the development of the necessary infrastructure.
It is up to us to make ICT a real tool for economic development and for social and territorial cohesion in the European Union.
The information society ought to be open to all, and ought to be a democratic tool that takes cultural diversity into account and promotes participation by citizens as protagonists, and not just as consumers.
The role of public investment in safeguarding the open nature of ICTs should be considered fundamental, in order to guarantee the development of technical resources and cultural tools permitting all citizens to benefit from an ever-increasing volume of communication and information services.
In order to put good governance into practice and provide all Europeans with full citizenship, we should adopt a European Charter of consumer rights in the digital world – so-called e-rights – with shared principles and guidelines, defining a framework of citizens’ rights.
It is also necessary to provide effective protection for financial and administrative services, to prevent unauthorised individuals from accessing them.
Particular care should be taken over material aimed at children and young people.
As we identify the tasks to be accomplished in this area we should keep in mind that this is not only a problem for the Union but also for the whole world.
Let us therefore do all we can to ensure that access to the information network becomes a reality for all our citizens and that they derive the maximum possible benefit from it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the technological developments and changes taking place nowadays in the ICT sector are proceeding at a giddy pace and are hard to keep up with.
Thus, a digital divide is appearing between Member States, a digital divide is appearing between regions and, most importantly, a digital divide is even appearing between persons with a small age difference.
I shall comment on two points which I consider crucial to the achievement of the objectives of i2010.
The first point is the institutional framework and the second point is the financing framework.
As regards the first point, with the i2010 strategy which we are debating today, the need is being identified and the review is being planned of the existing institutional framework on the basis of the new situation as regards digital convergence.
As regards the second point, the new strategy lays down ambitious objectives.
Nonetheless, as regards financing for research and innovation in ICT sectors, even with the 80% increase in resources proposed by the new strategy, Europe is still behind; to be precise, I would say a long way behind its competitors.
Now if they were to shop online they would not have to pay that GBP&#160;10, and this would make a huge difference to many poor families.
Our responsibility is to provide a stable legislative framework for this kind of investment. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with warm thanks to our rapporteur for his good report and also for his constructive cooperation.
More and more service providers are competing with one another in a market place that includes telecoms companies, cable operators, satellite broadcasters, mobile telephone companies, content providers, ISPs and so on and so on and so on.
That does of course present us, as European lawmakers, with problems, since we have to draw up the legal framework and must, in so doing predict these imponderables and the way these things will develop, about which there is no certainty.
I am very grateful to Mr Paasilinna and to all the Members who have contributed to this report for reformulating essential issues in it and summarising them.
This is now being obscured by games and an unrealistic world of entertainment, one in which it is difficult to find and glean essential information that people can use to take control of their lives and participate in democracy.
I would like to start by responding briefly to Mr&#160;Paasilinna's question regarding information.
There are two levels of information, the first being benchmarking, which takes place on an annual basis.
I am aware, Mr&#160;Paasilinna, that this benchmarking and these figures could be improved.
For example, I have just launched a survey and consultations regarding RFIDs, because I think we need to develop the RFID economy and industry and also to discuss, with consumer associations and privacy protection bodies, the influence of new technologies on citizens and also, perhaps, the measures that we need to take to protect citizens better.
Mr&#160;President, allow me to respond briefly to some of the questions raised.
This was the subject of a seminar on 'Trust in the Net' held in February under the Austrian Presidency.
If we give competition free rein, it will of course develop in places where there will be a return on the investment, in other words in our towns.
Our policies therefore need to enable new technologies to develop outside our towns as well.
A third theme that was raised by some Members is skills levels and in particular the need for specific measures for women.
With respect to skills, we are already aware that, in the technology sector, economic development is currently displaying a deficit of 15% due to a lack of technicians and engineers.
It is therefore of prime importance that we reform education in this field.
Therefore, together with the Commissioner responsible for education and the Commissioner responsible for research, we are going to draw up a roadmap to improve the involvement of women both in science training and in research.
We are also encouraging women researchers to get more involved in technology research.
In 2007 we are also going to present a European guide to best practice in the field.
If we want to remain at the cutting edge of global technological progress in future, it is today's research that will provide tomorrow's results.
Therefore, if we do not invest in research, we can be sure that, in future, no economic sector will grow in this regard.
Thus, when I ask for enough funding for technological research, I am not doing it for my own pleasure, but to develop the economy, and hence to create jobs for the future, here in Europe, and to prevent businesses relocating outside Europe.
I will be quite clear on that matter: the Telecoms regulation −&#160;which is a very positive example that we are considering using as a basis for reforming the market and regulatory framework in the fields of transport and energy&#160;− was intended not to regulate but to deregulate, to open up the markets to competition.
In contrast, where markets are closed, where there are monopolies, the take-up is non-existent because there is no choice on the market and because prices are too high.
Look at the statistics on broadband, for example, and you will see that only competition can make this market work, but −&#160;as I said before&#160;− competition only in markets that can be competitive.
We need correctives in markets that are too expensive for industrial economics; in other words, regional policy must pay attention to the regions remote from urban centres.
That said, the regulatory framework is in the review phase.
If we delay the issues relating to the information society much longer, the globalised ICT economy will be only too pleased to overtake us.
We also carried out a great deal of consultation with the shadow rapporteurs and I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs&#160;Bachelot, Mrs&#160;McDonald, Mrs&#160;Schroedter and Mr&#160;Beaupuy for their willingness to compromise and for the quality of their work.
The technical progress made by humans has been resulting in restructuring for centuries.
The role of our institutions, and of the social partners, is to intervene as early as possible, so as to plan for restructuring better and to soften the blow in terms of the social cost.
This is because restructuring, whether or not it is justified, often leaves people by the wayside.
Restructuring is not a phenomenon that affects any Member State in particular.
There are not two blocks with the old Member States on one side and the new ones on the other.
In my report, I have tried to define three spheres of action.
First of all, there is a sphere of action to support what we might call good corporate citizens, by strengthening the tools for analysing the phenomenon, in order to prevent it in advance, increasing aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, encouraging continuing vocational training, which is a right for employees and an undeniable asset for businesses, reforming State aid to support growth and, in particular, setting up a globalisation adjustment fund.
This type of action involves better monitoring of the use of the European funds in order to prevent subsidy tourism, challenging certain instances of restructuring with doubtful motives, and respecting the Community legal and its enforcement.
It involves strengthening the role of the social partners, who are our greatest asset in dealing with these phenomena, and that is why I would ask you all once again to consider reviewing the European Works Councils directive.
It also involves encouraging employees to become shareholders in their companies and setting up a one-stop shop to give all EU citizens equal access to care.
To conclude, I think that, alongside the social partners and beyond any party political affiliations, we can help to provide support for restructuring in order to win the employment battle.
This matter gives us the opportunity to get involved in the lives of our citizens, because that is what this is all about, behind all of our technical circumlocutions: men and women who just want to be happy.
It is, however, usually the case that the new jobs are not the same as the jobs that have been lost.
This will involve social costs, and it is therefore essential to anticipate restructuring and to ensure that accompanying measures are in place, which is the shared responsibility of public authorities, firms and social partners.
The communication on restructuring of 31 March 2005 was drafted precisely with this in mind.
The Commission is grateful to Mr Cottigny and to all of the Members who contributed to the drafting of the report, which in principle supports the general consensus that has emerged on addressing the issue of restructuring.
Greater use must be made of the Structural Funds to support economic and social change in the regions and to retrain the workers most affected by restructuring so as to help them secure new and better jobs.
In addition to this, the Commission recently adopted a proposal to create a European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, which has already been put before you.
The aim of this Fund is to ensure the necessary level of solidarity in the future between those who benefit from trade liberalisation and those who will lose their jobs as a result of globalisation.
These include the idea of a European one-stop shop for restructuring, which I consider to be particularly interesting.
As for improved monitoring of the way that Community funds are used, the Commission has proposed for the period 2007-2013 that Community funds tighten regulations on company relocations and broaden the responsibility for securing a return on investments.
The Commission is also proposing that firms which infringe these regulations be obliged to return the aid they have received and that they be barred from receiving any aid in the future.
The Commission has also called on the partners to find ways of strengthening the role of European works councils.
The programme of work for future years, which has recently received the backing of the European partners, provides for continuing work on both of these issues.
The Commission calls on the social partners to speed up the delivery of results in this area.
Ladies and gentlemen, restructuring must not become a synonym for social decline and the loss of economic substance.
In this context, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats refuses to demonise necessary restructuring, but feels that the European market needs to promote a regulatory framework to absorb the shocks of this globalisation.
The internal market is not the cause for restructuring&#160;–&#160;it is the antidote to it.
The question that arises is this: how can we encourage socially responsible restructuring?
Mr&#160;Cottigny's report allows us to look at a number of approaches, to which our group contributed.
An initial approach involves reviewing the European Works Council directive and increasing the role of the social partners, following in-depth consultation with them: the rapporteur has proposed an amendment in this respect, which we support.
Other approaches include access to expertise and the exchange of good practices, which is a relevant area for the open method of coordination; vocational training, with regard to which we are pleased that the support fund proposed by Mr&#160;Barroso supports retraining for the workers affected and is not devoted to risky salvage operations; and optimising the support for our solidarity policies from the ESF/ERDF structural funds, on condition, Commissioner, that they are not compromised by the delayed financial perspective.
I would like to end by thanking the rapporteur Mr&#160;Cottigny for his open-mindedness, which made it possible to reach a number of compromises and which should, barring disasters, allow our group to vote in favour of his report. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the transparent way in which he worked on this report and so succeeded in uniting the committee.
I also share the rapporteur’s view that restructuring is nothing new.
Society has changed as a result of this process, and workplaces are now of a higher quality than they were when I was growing up.
What is new is that the process is happening so much more quickly in today’s globalised world, which is why we must have restructuring as an instrument.
It may be seen as either a threat or an opportunity, but now that we have chosen a path to go down and said that we are not to compete with India and China with their low wages and their particular working conditions but, instead, retain a high level of wages and good social conditions, restructuring must be an instrument used in the Lisbon process.
There has been extensive analysis of successful restructuring processes, and there is a bank of information about them.
There has been cooperation between the company, both sides of industry and the local community with a view to creating new jobs.
Now that we are creating a new Globalisation Fund, let us not forget the old instruments: the Social Fund and skills updating, together with responsibility taken at national and regional levels.
Secondly, we need the partners to be involved – the partners in the business, obviously, but also the regional and external partners.
My final point, which has already been raised, is support for workers.
In conclusion, Commissioner, I obviously hope that the Commission will listen to Parliament's proposals, but I also hope that, beyond our European institutions, the various players – in the Member States, in the regions and in the chambers of commerce – and the various professional players will take note of the letter and the spirit of this report, so that restructuring is not a death sentence but rather an opportunity for these businesses and these workers to bounce back. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, It is indeed the case that the enterprises involved in restructuring always talk in terms of being pressured into it by something they compare to a force of nature suddenly overwhelming them, but I do not believe that they are right to do so.
Restructuring and modernisation are things that enterprises are constantly obliged to do; indeed, they are a matter of social duty in respect of their workers.
They are responsible for the continuing development of their skills, and this is where I agree with the rapporteur: workers are entitled to training, whether basic, advanced, or in-service.
I concede that such restructuring or even relocations result in a great deal of unemployment in some regions, but I would remind those caught up in such situations of such instruments as the territorial pacts for employment that we – that is, this House together with the Commission – have put together.
Let me just say something about the Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
Our group, too, is in favour of such a fund, but participation in it must be restricted to those enterprises that actually do take upon themselves the social responsibility for ongoing training and development rather than passing it on to somebody else.
That is the only way of preventing this fund being a merely token gesture.
Only yesterday Mr Schulz complained that the elected MEPs in this House did not have as much say as the Council and the unelected Commission.
Our role is to take appropriate action to ensure that such changes are aimed at increasing competitiveness whilst minimising the social cost.
They are the people who elected us to represent their interests and promote their well being.
In conclusion, and referring back to yesterday’s debate on relocation in the context of regional development, I venture to point out that many people, including Members of this House, were quick to forget the hopes awakened in the new Member States in the course of the pre-accession campaigns.
Once again, as a reformist, I believe that the right path is the middle way: preventing restructuring is an idle dream.
An appropriate strategy should also be introduced to facilitate by all possible means the full, satisfactory integration of our human resources in order to combat unemployment and prevent a brain drain outside our borders.
In cases of inevitable restructuring, the EU also ought to provide all the support necessary to restrict dismissals and give fair protection to workers, with the help of the funds that the rapporteur rightly called for. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I agree with the Commissioner when he said on opening this debate that restructuring is necessary so that activity which is no longer sufficiently productive can be cut back.
The issue is how restructuring should be managed and who should do the managing.
But it would still be better to vote it down than to give the wrong message that this Parliament is more concerned with trying to preserve the past than with helping employers and employees come to terms with the future. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following the Hutchinson report, which we debated yesterday evening, the Cottigny report sets out the debate on the restructuring and relocation of businesses.
I would like to thank the two rapporteurs for having raised these socio-economic problems, which create more anguish and social insecurity for our fellow citizens than almost anything else.
These issues set the European Union the challenge of the economic competitiveness of our companies and of job security for European employees.
In the minds of European employees, relocation and restructuring are connected and practically synonymous, because they have the same effects: the same loss of their jobs after years of working in the same sector, sometimes even in the same company, and the same questioning of their value on the labour market.
This issue sets the European Union the challenge of adapting to the increasingly rapid developments of our age of technical progress.
It really sets us the challenge of anticipating those developments.
In this respect, the responsibility rests solely with the companies – they must produce and they must help their employees to anticipate by providing them with continuing training.
If, then, we in the EU are not to export our problems, we should say ‘yes’ to restructuring, but ask ourselves how it should work.
The object of this must not be to beat our competitors at any cost, and we must not allow this to shape our thinking.
That is where you need to intervene, that is where you need to help. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Commission’s proposal on restructuring and employment contains the conclusion that policies aimed at blocking change and freezing economic structures can only defer the problem and thereby exacerbate the negative effects.
Various measures concerning restructuring that are mentioned in Parliament’s report, however, unfortunately go in precisely this direction and could make it difficult for businesses to adapt to changes in the markets.
The best way to preserve jobs is to create new jobs.
The report ought also to emphasise this aspect.
The measures taken ought to foster the development of self-regulatory capacity in the Member States and the European Union as a whole.
Only thus will it be possible to balance growth and high employment in the long-term too. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, much has been said in this House about the fact that nowadays economies are increasingly globalised and competitive.
This is the way things are and entrepreneurs therefore need to implement modern management.
I am sure the quality of the document is much improved as a result of the work by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Nevertheless, I am bound to say that in my opinion the text is still controversial, because it adopts an overly distrustful stance towards entrepreneurs restructuring their business or planning to do so.
As a Member representing one of the countries that recently joined the European Union, I am particularly concerned about the proposals to impose penalties on companies transferring all or part of their activities to those parts of the Union where the production costs are lower.
They are therefore acting to promote the development of the Union’s economy and increase its competitiveness.
The only appropriate response is to improve qualifications, promote lifelong learning amongst the workers and encourage worker mobility.
I should like to send out a further appeal in that regard and call for the transitional arrangements for access to labour markets to be lifted at the earliest opportunity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mr Cottigny on his report.
In my country, the Netherlands, restructuring and globalisation are weighty topics, and opinions differ as to how to deal with them.
It is because citizens need support in order to deal with the adverse effects of globalisation.
I would like to respond to some of the questions that have directly or indirectly been raised.
The legislative route cannot entirely be ruled out, but in the present phase it would be more appropriate and beneficial to let the social partners handle matters.
On the question of Community assistance for relocations, I would like to state that the current framework provides for the cancellation of aid from the Structural Funds in cases where a given business undergoes significant change, for example where it is relocated within five years of a decision being made and the allocation of resources taking place.
The Commission recently adopted a proposal for a regulation establishing a Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
I would also like to stress the direct and short-term nature of the assistance provided through this Fund, in contrast to the more structured activities of the Structural Funds, especially the European Social Fund.
As I have already stated, the Social Fund, as well as other Structural Funds, allows for long-term activities aimed at adapting regions, sectors and work processes to economic and social change, in contrast to the short-term demands of specific exceptional situations.
This is a priority set for the target of the Structural Funds, which is competitiveness and employment in the 2007–2013 period.
Ladies and gentlemen, the unifying idea in this discussion has undoubtedly been that restructuring provides opportunities, but that the human costs will be unacceptably high if it is not managed properly.
These opportunities arise from the fundamental structure of our society and the fundamental structure of modern development in general, in that it constitutes a search for ever more effective and more technologically advanced solutions in the economic and social spheres.
I am sure you will agree with me that gender equality is an economic just as much as a political goal, as well as being a fundamental building block of our democratic society.
It constitutes a defining principle of Europe’s economic, social and political life.
The full participation of women, with completely equal opportunities and full participation in the workplace has become a key element of the European economy within a Union that has to cope with an aging population and demographic loss.
The Commission’s reports for the years 2005 and 2006 on gender equality show, however, that progress has been slow in this area.
Gender equality, besides its underlying political aspects, constitutes a key competitive factor for us in the fierce arena of global competition.
The Commission submitted the proposal to set up an institution which would be a technical instrument assisting European bodies and especially the Commission in developing policies and in guiding Member States on their implementation.
Our proposal is the outcome of numerous analyses and it takes account of the results of two studies into operability, as well as the countless discussions that have taken place.
The proposal takes account of budgetary restrictions and does not represent new expenditure against the European budget.
The Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, with the object of guaranteeing broad support, entrusted the work on the report to the two major groups, in the persons of Mrs Sartori and myself.
The Gender Institute will have a very important role to play in ensuring that we, as political decision-makers, can speedily draw on the results of gender research and thereby improve the lawmaking process.
It will be a milestone, and will have an effect far beyond the borders of the European Union, but there is a risk that people will say – as some Members of this House are already doing – that we do not want an institute specifically for gender issues, but that it should, instead, be combined with the Human Rights Agency.
It has already been said that this study was a joint and very significant effort by our Parliamentary committee, which took action to ensure that the institute becomes what we all wanted to see: a very flexible technical instrument, with the task of collating all the data supplied by statistical bodies and of disseminating this information in order to give all operators and all those responsible for legislating and taking action the opportunity to make choices that take into account the gender viewpoint.
If I wished to assist Commissioner Frattini I would agree, but I believe that this is not what women need.
Others believe that it would cost too much, but my reply to that is that in Europe we have four bodies working on employment and they cost EUR&#160;66 million a year; this body, on the other hand, will only cost EUR&#160;8 million. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed the case that we in the European Union need another effective instrument to enable us to take greater strides towards equality for women and men, for if we carry on mincing along in the way we are now, establishing equality will still be a struggle even for our great-grand-daughters.
In June of last year, this House, in its position on the Financial Perspective, allocated over EUR&#160;850 million to PROGRESS, but the Council, in December, cut almost 300 million from that amount.
I hope that the institute will not be simply a passive statistical office there to measure equality or inequality, but will also be an active proponent of new strategies that will ensure actual progress in respect of equality.
If Slovenia is chosen, this will be an encouraging decision, for while on the one hand we have been particularly successful in our transition, the data do indicate, however, that men have enjoyed greater success than women.
Thirty years on, despite all of our European directives, the continuing lack of equality in the treatment of men and women in all economic activities is an insult to our democracy.
The demographic issue has not been resolved.
The Gender Institute should in fact be part of the new EU Agency on Fundamental Rights, just as the Anti-Racism Monitoring Centre will be.
On the contrary, women can spearhead the campaign for equality in human rights for all through the Fundamental Rights Agency.
This discrimination is going on in the labour market, in sport, and in many other areas.
We know that women have a part to play in shaping the future, not only in terms of their potential in the Lisbon process, but also, for example, in terms of demography, where their role is positively crucial.
Yesterday, we heard from Commissioner Frattini how we still have too few statistics on forced prostitution.
So let me again ask for really strong support for this report. &#160;&#160; I wish to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, especially Mrs&#160;Gröner and Mrs&#160;Sartori, for their committed work on this issue.
We realise that an institute cannot in itself bring about increased equality but appreciate that, if it is designed in the right way, it can be an incredibly important tool for successful work in promoting equality.
I should like to indicate two proposals that would further reinforce the work of the institute: firstly, that it be possible effectively to evaluate the consequences for women or, as the case may be, for men of decisions at all levels; and, secondly, that the board be composed of six people from the Council, six from the Commission and a further three from, as appropriate, an employees’ or employers’ organisation and a voluntary organisation.
This body is to be charged with ensuring equal pay for equal work, doing away with gender stereotypes and also promoting equality between the sexes beyond the European Union.
I would, however, like to remind the House that almost 70&#160;million of the 450&#160;million inhabitants of the European Union are living in poverty.
That would be far more beneficial than encouraging ill feeling between men and women, which always has negative consequences for women.
Instead of attempting to even out the natural imbalances in various areas of the economy and professional life, and promoting equality beyond the Union, we ought to be focusing on equality within the Union.
The aforementioned funds would be more usefully spent on helping at least the children living in poverty by improving their living conditions.
They are equal in terms of dignity but they are different.
This is obvious in the world of sport mentioned earlier.
Commissioner&#160;Špidla replied that the principle of gender equality only applies to work and to access to goods and services.
After all, Article&#160;23 in Chapter&#160;III of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union clearly refers to all areas.
In this cloud of structures, not always operating in perfect harmony in terms of the exchange of information, will this new body, which is supposed to network all of this information, have actual resources allowing it to exist?
For all these reasons and more besides, I cannot vote in favour of this initiative to create what I would describe as just yet another labyrinthine system. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, the founding of a European institute for gender mainstreaming, a&#160;substantial long-term task highlighted by the Treaty of Amsterdam and positively influenced by the process that followed the Fourth World Conference on Women held in Beijing, has become a theme of political discussion between supporters and opponents of the Institute.
I&#160;am one of those who support the shared view of the rapporteurs, Mrs&#160;Gröner and Mrs&#160;Sartori, who have managed to find a&#160;common solution on behalf of the two largest political groups in the European Parliament.
I&#160;admire and appreciate their work on this report, and in particular their patient awareness-raising campaign advocating the setting up of the Institute as a coordinator whose task will be to provide technical support for EU gender policy implementation, stimulating and acting in partnership with existing institutions, disseminating information and enhancing the visibility of issues relating to gender equality.
As the most recent reports also suggest, inequalities between men and women still persist.
In conclusion, I am convinced that locating the Institute in one of the new Member States will further the cause of even-handed institutional decentralisation in the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like first of all to congratulate the rapporteurs on their report and express my satisfaction with the Commission’s efforts to provide the European Union with an independent body specifically dedicated to gender equality issues.
The issue of equality should be made far more prominent, and in respect of that an active Institute could work to make the EU stronger and more competitive than ever. &#160;&#160; – I&#160;would like to thank the rapporteurs for drafting this report, which should culminate in the establishment of the European Gender Institute.
The task of the Institute will be to collect and analyse gender equality data in the EU countries, as well as to organise conferences and campaigns.
The Gender Institute could function as an ombudsman for women, a mediator between the government and non-governmental organisations in eliminating injustices, such as discrimination in labour relations.
I believe that this Institute needs to be a useful instrument, but how useful it is will depend on whether or not the governments really have the political will to achieve equality between men and women.
Nevertheless, we are in 2006 and many women still earn less than men for the same job or have contracts that do not correspond to the work that they are actually doing.
These effective measures, therefore, which are what women need in our European society, require that laws be put into practice and not that more and more laws be created.
When governments that claim to be very progressive present plans such as, for example, the National Reform Plan that has been presented by the government of my country, they often include phrases such as ‘benefits will be given for the contracting of young unemployed males of under thirty years of age’ while at the same time not providing for any measure for women of under thirty years of age, amongst whom, in my country, there is a much higher rate of unemployment than amongst men.
I therefore say yes to this Institute, but it must serve a genuine purpose. &#160;&#160; I would like to thank the two co-rapporteurs, Mr&#160;Gröner and Mrs&#160;Sartori, for their excellent work.
Indeed, this report adds to the Commission's initial text a number of improvements that I had also proposed in my draft opinion in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
Then there is the need for balanced participation of men and women in the management board, and, finally, there is the role of the European Parliament, particularly concerning the nomination of the director of the institute and of the members of the management board and monitoring their work.
This Gender Institute is a vital part of a true Europe of citizens, and I was extremely disappointed that my draft report was rejected by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, 18 votes to 18, because part of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and part of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe wanted to prevent this institute from seeing the light of day.
That said, I am also pleased to see that the co-rapporteurs have incorporated the essential elements of my concerns into their report. &#160;&#160; – I am delighted with this report.
I believe that it is very important for the identity of the new modern Europe.
The equal opportunities problem is especially relevant in the states of Eastern Europe.
In many European states there are ministries, departments and other institutions dedicated to gender equality.
I would like to stress that the institute is needed for men as well as women, and it is a shame that the majority of those speaking today were women. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the feminists’ ridiculous slogan about gender equality is detrimental to women.
This slogan ascribes great value to male characteristics and suggests that women also possess them.
Women are of inestimable value due to their role as mothers, which is why they deserve special consideration and protection.
Women account for 52% of the population of Europe and they are constantly experiencing discrimination in many areas of their lives.
This new Institute must not simply restrict itself to gathering statistical data if it is to promote and implement a gender equality policy effectively in the enlarged Union.
Poland is the largest of the new countries, and a country where not only is discrimination widespread, but is also played down by the authorities. &#160;&#160; Emile Zola said that a woman is the axis around which civilisation revolves.
The institute should evaluate the situation in every area, in every country and present proposals.
On this basis, EU institutions would take effective measures and would demand the same of national governments.
The institute should begin its work in one of the new EU countries.
Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate a number of arguments and opinions have been put forward, which in my view require a response.
The first opinion to be expressed was the view that this institution should become part of the human rights agenda.
A series of speakers in the discussion have taken the view, which I fully support, that the question of equal opportunities goes far beyond the simple issue of human rights, albeit that human rights are of fundamental importance.
The issue of equal opportunities is a broader issue.
The EU is involved in countless international connections, both with the Member States and in the context of development aid and at a multilateral level, and each of these offers the opportunity of effectively reinforcing gender equality.
I fully support this argument.
Ladies and gentlemen, one of the sound principles of European parliamentary life is multi-lingualism and we often discover that a given matter can be expressed more elegantly and accurately in some other European language.
The committee’s attitude regarding the nature of the institute allows us to be flexible and to accept most of the amendments that strengthen the role and working methods of the institute, including the creation of the network for the institute.
These amendments are acceptable in their original form, either in part or after reworking.
The second category includes the amendments that increase the readability of the text and which the Commission equally can accept in their original form or after a small amount of reworking.
The third group are the amendments that relate to the legal presentation techniques, which, although they are constructive, mark a departure from the original provisions of the existing instruments and therefore cannot be adopted, for reasons of maintaining cohesion.
Finally there are the amendments that relate to horizontal questions, in other words to all agencies and organisations, in respect of procedures for selecting directors, extending their contracts and assessing organisations.
These amendments cannot be accepted, because it is necessary to maintain a certain principle of cohesion in relation to all agencies.
We are delighted that the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality has come out in favour of limiting the number of members on the governing council and that it has followed the European Parliament resolution from December last year on an operational framework for future regulatory agencies.
We can now be guided by this proposal, although the number of Commission representatives is not the same as in the case of the Council.
The equilibrium between the two organisations and between the two levels of interest, which is to say the national level and the Community level, may be further secured if, in accordance with the proposal and where the Commission has responsibility, the voice of its representative carries the same weight as the voices of all of the Council representatives together, in the very limited number of cases involving the approval of budgets and programmes of work.
We therefore accept Amendments 66, 82 and 85 relating to the composition of the governing council and voting regulations.
We hope that the Council will be able to adopt your proposal for the governing council, which, together with the rotating system, will allow representatives from all Member States to alternate over a period of three mandates.
The Commission can now adopt Amendments 2 to 10, 13, 15, 17, 18, 20, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 35, 36, 38 to 42, 44, 45, 48, 53, 55, 59 to 69, 74 and 76 to 85.
The Commission cannot adopt Amendments 1, 11, 12, 14, 16, 19, 21 to 23, 27, 30 to 34, 37, 43, 46, 47, 49 to 52, 54, 56 to 58, 70 to 73 and part of 75.
The Commission is counting on the support of the European Parliament to set up this much needed European institute, and it is important to ensure that the organisation begins work in 2007, in the interests of progress and to raise the profile of the gender equality policy.
I will of course be submitting an opinion on individual amendments in writing later. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The June List believes that gender equality issues are important and that it absolutely goes without saying that women and men should be treated equally under all circumstances.
The EU’s new Institute for Gender Equality is to analyse equality in the EU by comparing data from different Member States.
The arguments presented in the report are unconvincing.
The EU already has its central statistics agency, Eurostat, which is able to produce comparative statistics on gender equality in EU countries.
There are also national authorities that work on equality issues and that can cooperate across national borders.
The Commission consists of 18 men and 7 women.
The EU institutions should begin by applying equality within their own structures and in that way setting an example, before new centralised EU authorities are set up.
The analyses should be integrated in the policies of Member States innovatively, with the objective that equal opportunities become a main political guideline and mainstreaming for legislators.
At the same time, the results of the research should be made available to the general public, to enable European citizens to adopt a conscious position regarding the issues surrounding gender equality.
I would like to call attention to the fact that cooperation with the media and the employment of modern means of communication constitute an important task of the Institute!
The work of the Institute will only be effective if it really operates as the European network of gender equality, if it is able to coordinate Member State centres, organisations and specialists involved in the general implementation of equal opportunities, and if its message reaches the governments and the citizens of Europe.
We will return to the votes immediately following the formal sitting. &#160;&#160; Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany, ladies and gentlemen, before welcoming our illustrious guest today, I must inform you that, during the meeting we held with President Köhler before coming to the Chamber, we heard the sad news of the death of Mr Lennart Meri, who was President of Estonia from 1992 to 2001.
As you know, President Meri was seen as a symbol of Estonia’s fight for freedom and national identity, and his death deprives us of an important European personality, whose memory we shall honour here today.
Mr President, please allow me to stress your personal commitment to the European project, which is particularly useful and necessary at a time when the situation in the European Union is causing many doubts amongst the citizens.
Looking at Europe from outside gave me a sharper picture of it, and I learned how other countries see our continent and the European Union.
Those who want to understand Europe must consider its history and understand what are the ideas and ideals that bind us Europeans together.
In all these places, Europeans were as god-fearing as they were industrious.
It is true to say that in doing this, Europeans more than once sinned terribly against other peoples and cultures and also against one another, but they did learn the right lessons from that, in that they now contend for human rights, peace and democracy and wish others to learn the same lessons that they have had to learn.
Europe also bears the stamp of a culture of active love of one’s neighbour and of active striving for social justice.
These good qualities are, of course, to be found on all continents, and Europe has learned from them, but the specifically European blend of love of freedom, the striving for truth, solidarity and creative ferment is unique and found to be good by the many outside Europe who expect us to make our contribution to the peace and well-being of the world, just as it will be by those who will come after us.
You need only consider the European internal market and economic and monetary union.
At that time, there were so many obstacles to the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital that, to take one example, Philips had to produce seven different versions of the same electric razor for the European market and Siemens had to produce twenty-five different electrical plugs.
The European Union has now put it on an institutional foundation and increased economic and social cohesion between the Member States.
Since then, European firms have had a domestic market of what are now 450 million customers for their products.
New opportunities for success have come into being, not least for service providers from the smaller Member States, who are now able to produce their goods in larger quantities and hence in a more competitive way.
And, above all, the internal market is a first-rate programme for making European businesses fit for global competition.
That is why the euro – like the internal market – has long been a success story, and its strength on international currency markets testifies to the world’s confidence that was learned long ago is still true today, that Europe is capable of turning challenges into opportunities, and that is something you need to recall, again and again, day in and day out.
All that needs to be said about the first condition is that those whose protectionism weakens the European internal market are, at the end of the day, harming themselves.
The European Union, too, is in need of reshaping.
At the end of the day, it needs to do not everything that can be done, but rather everything that needs to be done, and that does not include those things that can already be done quite adequately at the local or regional level or by individual nation states.
Respect for the subsidiarity principles means respecting in so far as possible the personal responsibility and identity of the EU’s citizens, and anyone who knows how decisions are really arrived at in the European Union will know that this is an obligation incumbent not only on the governments of the Member States but also on the institutions of the European Union.
Our former enthusiasm for legislation has left us with plenty of places where we can do this, and so it is a good thing that the European Commission has set in motion a major programme of cutting through the thickets of legal verbiage that we have at present and simplifying European law.
Indeed they are, and the treaty contains much else that is good and right, which should not too readily be surrendered, not least in view of the fact that 14 Member States have already voted to approve it.
I believe, then, that there is more than one good reason why Europe should, in the new world order that is coming into being, speak with one voice on matters of foreign and security policy.
For Europe’s future prospects and for the far too numerous young people without work, then, education, training, research and development are crucial, and that is a good enough reason to reallocate considerable sums from the European budget in that direction and thereby to earn a tribute of appreciation from our nation states.
That is indeed possible, as has most recently and resoundingly been demonstrated by energy policy.
It must surely be plain to every rational person that all the Member States have a vital interest in the safe and affordable supply of environmentally-friendly energy and that they must work together to find the most effective way of achieving this.
The European Commission has presented a Green Paper on energy policy, and that I very much welcome.
The debates of which I have spoken and which will ensure the European Union a good future, are already underway.
They suggest setting aside five per cent of the gross domestic product for research and development.
And they want a European army and European non-combatant service.
And while I am on that subject, trainees and apprentices too should be given more opportunities to learn from their neighbours and learn from experience the value of Europe.
Let us, rather than being disquieted by the future, be filled with creative restlessness, for Europe and for the European Union.
Dresden demands for European cohesion (5 February 2006) I.
Bringing Europe closer to the people. 1.
Europe to be given a face by a directly-elected president. 4.
A short and comprehensible EU constitution. 5.
A ‘We are Europe’ campaign. 9.
The European Parliament to have full power over the budget. 3.
Together for security and responsibility 1.
Establishment of a ‘European Army’ as part of a common foreign and security policy. 3.
The rest of the amendment will remain unchanged. &#160;&#160; Are there any objections to this oral amendment? &#160;&#160; That concludes voting time. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, Mrs&#160;Kauppi, on the proposal for an amendment of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council regarding the capital of public limited liability companies.
It is also essential that we analyse and monitor gender mainstreaming in all policies and in the EU’s budgetary process, especially with regard to the impact of relevant national Community policies on men and women.
This does not, however, mean that the EU should set up another bureaucracy for the purpose.
An Institute for Gender Equality at European level means increased bureaucracy and less efficiency.
Eurostat can take care of the need for comparative statistics in this area.
However, we have voted against this report today as we do not support the proliferation of new EU agencies and institutes that will add to the burden of the taxpayer and increase bureaucracy without any proven benefit to the people they are supposed to serve.
The intention is that an Institute should be created, with a budget of EUR&#160;54.5 million, with the specific function of monitoring men’s and women’s equality of opportunity by producing statistics and reports.
This House has, however, for practical and financial reasons, and as recently as last year, recommended that the Institute for Gender Equality should form part of the European Human Rights Agency.
That would be the first step towards equality.
The current debate on the reduction of bureaucracy is another reason why an additional agency does not make sense and would not be something readily explicable to the public.
I cannot therefore be accused of lacking any sympathy for this matter.
I do wonder, though, why a European Institute for Gender Equality is supposed to be necessary, quite simply because the idea of a Gender Institute was hatched over ten years ago, since when a lot of time has passed and we now set different priorities for spending money, which is in short supply, in a more effective way.
I endorse the amendment that reminds us that this House has already resolved that such an institute should form part of the European Union’s Agency for Fundamental Rights.
The fact that I support, as I said earlier, greater balance in the way in which our societies are organised does not lead me to advocate the creation of this Institute.
Making freedom bureaucratic does not strike me as the right way forward.
The end does not always justify the means.
What is more, the proliferation of ‘agencies’ and 'institutes’ does not strike me as an appropriate model for the organisation of Community institutions. &#160;&#160; We, the Members of the European Parliament belonging to the Austrian People’s Party, are in favour of gender equality and also of politics playing an active role in this area.
It may be worth spending a few million euros on trying to improve this situation a little with the help of an institute designed to supplement the one that already exists to combat discrimination against minorities.
I therefore welcome the proposal for a Council regulation and the European Parliament's report, specifically regarding the concept of prevention in shaping an EU response to natural disasters.
Prevention is in every way as crucial as reaction to natural disasters and I welcome the inclusion of the concept of prevention in the report.
I also agree that the legal basis is clearer under Art. 175(1) of the Treaty establishing the European Community and support the rapporteur.
Stretching the definition of Article 175 of the Treaty, so that this instrument can fall within its scope is not the right way forward, and can only be interpreted as a majority position in Parliament in order to extend its influence to include topics that are not considered to fall within its remit in the Treaty.
We have to be ready to invest both money as well as human resources so that a study would be carried out to clearly indicate, or better still, evaluate, the places and regions which are most prone to disasters.
I believe that we should give a political direction so that, through it, any country would be able to rely on help from the Union to launch projects to improve the standard of living of those who live in these regions which are, mostly prone to large-scale problems.
The Rapid Response and Preparedness Instrument for major emergencies proposed by the Commission is aimed at enhancing the EU’s response capacity in the context of the civil protection mechanism and at maximising assistance in terms of preparedness and rapid response to major emergencies.
Measures and activities for which this instrument can be activated will bring major benefits in terms of preparedness and response to emergencies.
We nonetheless question whether the EU should have the prominent role that the European Parliament wants it to have in this connection.
Among other things, the European Parliament wants: – the EU to play an active role in preventing disasters such as serious drought in Spain and Portugal or fires in southern European countries; – the EU to become involved in disasters outside the EU through, for example, civil protection intervention; – and the budget for a Rapid Response and Preparedness Instrument to be increased by EUR&#160;105 million (in excess of the figure proposed by the Commission) for the period 2007–2013.
We believe that it is primarily the task of each Member State to take action in connection with natural disasters.
What is more, the UN already has a system in operation for helping countries hit by disasters and serious accidents.
The key to success in these activities is complete cooperation between the various parties involved.
For example, fires are very often caused by human activities.
This inventory should be drawn up by the European Commission in cooperation with the Member States.
Finally, the initial responsibility for civil protection rests with the Member States.
Yet the debate on solidarity between different countries in the event of a disaster also serves to demonstrate – or rather, to show in stark relief – the appalling waste of resources of the arms race and the militarisation of international relations led by the main capitalist powers, and their ringleader the United States.
Parliament should not raise hopes that the EU will not want to fulfil. &#160;&#160; – The facts demonstrate that the poor, grass-roots classes are the first victims of what is often a criminal lack of appropriate measures to safeguard them from natural disasters.
The Commission proposal ignores the question of prevention, because then it would need to address the social and economic reasons which cause or exacerbate the consequences and provide the necessary resources, which are still inadequate.
That being said, recent major disasters, such as extreme drought and forest fires in Portugal and Spain, have demonstrated that strengthening the Community’s civil protection mechanism should be an immediate priority before fresh emergencies occur.
The text before us clearly improves upon the Commission's proposal to extend the scope of the regulation and to increase funding for prevention, preparedness and assistance in the event of a disaster.
We must do as much as we can when other communities are affected by major emergencies, the crucial priority in this issue being to strengthen mutual assistance between EU Member States.
Terrorism mainly affects countries with colonial foreign policies.
Instead of changing these policies, as they ought to do, these countries want, however, to export them, together with their consequences, to all the EU countries.
The structural adjustment plans are an attempt at what they consider to be the adaptation of the economies of southern countries to the so-called market and competition economy, whereby the markets of such countries will be opened up to foreign investment and economic specialisation models that favour the centre will be ushered in.
The disastrous economic and social consequences of these plans are well known.
What is more, the international monetary system is becoming more unstable and crises are happening with greater frequency.
An extension of the protection deadline from five to seven years is unacceptable and goes against the principles of free movement.
An increased level of knowledge and skills in a region or country may give rise to a need for relocations if it is to be possible to develop the region. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the report on relocation in the context of regional development because it is crucial to reassure our fellow citizens of the fact that the European Union is the source of solutions with regard to today’s profound economic and social changes, and not the cause of problems.
The seriousness of the economic and social issues linked to relocation requires a strong European policy aimed at reconciling the necessary changes with the objective of cohesion.
This information will be crucial to us, particularly in the context of the negotiations in the World Trade Organisation on economic sectors that are very exposed to these changes, which can be very brutal.
This report proposes preventing the Structural Funds from promoting measures that contribute to the relocations that have such a high social cost in our regions.
Nor is it a matter of controlling all businesses or of preventing the development of the new Member States.
Today, the European Parliament is voting on Mr&#160;Hutchinson’s own-initiative report on relocation in the context of regional development.
We agree that there is no justification for using EU resources from, for example, the Structural Funds to fund improved conditions of competition for European companies that shortly afterwards decide to move their activities outside the EU.
However, neither the state nor EU authorities should intervene to control how companies manage their affairs and to stipulate what is required to prevent companies from taking rational decisions in order to survive.
We cannot therefore vote, either, in favour of further limiting the movement of companies in the internal market, as proposed in this report.
This is vital if we are going to achieve the goal of full employment and the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy as recommended in 2000&#160;–&#160;we will not be able to achieve these objectives without a European industrial policy. &#160;&#160; This report, which exists outside the legislative procedure, deals with an important subject.
Where the relocation of companies within the EU is concerned, we must attend to the problem arising from the fact that individual Member States supplement the EU’s structural aid in the form of discriminatory tax relief and state subsidies.
This happened in 2002 when the tyre factory in Gislaved was closed down and the company concerned, Continental, instead invested in a tyre factory in northern Portugal.
That something like that can happen in the EU’s internal market is, in our view, a major problem.
In his explanatory statement, the rapporteur also states that a European Relocation Observatory could be set up within the EU.
We therefore choose to vote against the report.
Our proposals were as follows. - To highlight the fact that, in most cases, the purpose of business relocations is to derive the maximum profit, secure tax breaks and financial support, and to exploit cheap labour deprived of rights; - To highlight the fact that relocations form part of the worldwide liberalisation of trade and the deregulation of the labour market, under the auspices of the World Trade Organisation; - To set up a regulatory legal framework which, among other aspects, addresses: the contractual definition of a minimum seven-year period, guaranteeing stable and lasting employment and regional economic development, providing for sanctions to be applied in the event of non-compliance with contractual obligations (return of aid granted and prohibition from receiving any more Community aid), and protecting the workers by keeping them informed and giving them meaningful involvement, including voting rights; - To draw up an annual communication on relocations and the impact thereof.
The European institutions are starting to take notice of the economic and social consequences of their political choices: many of our businesses have been forced to relocate their operations because the destruction of borders has put them in competition with producers with very low labour costs.
In order to protect our economies from this social dumping and to protect our social model, we must pursue a different policy: rebuild our borders, and make our businesses more competitive by funding our social security from a social VAT rate instead of contributions.
For this to be possible, the national governments need to retain their sovereignty over taxation.
What is more, there is already a European system that provides for the possibilities to retrain workers, in that the existing European structural funds give the Member States the financial leg room to (re)train their people.
The ten new Member States are attracting businesses from 'old Europe' and even US businesses based in Mexico.
In other words, the customs duty would give the exporter a drawing right on the importer's economy, which is a win-win situation for international trade.
In this context, despite these objections, I share the idea expressed in the report that we all too often look into relocations after they have taken place.
Quite the opposite, we should be trying to derive the maximum benefit from it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I&#160;have abstained from voting on the Matsakis report into the Commission’s strategy on mercury, and I would like to explain why.
My formal background is that of a dentist, and I&#160;know that the amendments concerning the&#160;prompt banning of amalgam from dentistry are not feasible, especially in the new Member States, and primarily for economic reasons.
At the same time, the evidence concerning the harmful effects of amalgam is both unclear and incomplete.
Among the important points raised in this report are an end to mercury exports, an end to the use of mercury in measuring equipment and in dental amalgam, controls on emissions, and studies into the effects of mercury in vaccines, something that could bring major benefits for public health.
The licence provided for in Amendment 2 safeguards the activities of small producers under controlled conditions, museum exhibits, traditional barometers and items with historical value.
Amendment 6 brings forward the deadline for restricting exports.
I endorse the Commission’s proposal and the main thrust of the Matsakis report. &#160;&#160; The June List supports the proposal that measures be taken to reduce and eventually phase out mercury emissions.
We have thus chosen to vote in favour of this report.
Moreover, we are of the view that it is primarily the task of the Member States, rather than of the EU, to deal with the social consequences of mercury mines being closed down. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of this text.
We must have a firm Community strategy with regard to mercury.
Having said that, being firm also means being realistic.
My approach is to recognise that mercury is a highly toxic substance and to support the Commission strategy and impact assessment. &#160;&#160; .By adopting, on Tuesday, the report by my colleague, Mr&#160;Matsakis, on the Community strategy concerning mercury, the European Parliament has just sent a powerful signal to the international community: the most highly toxic chemical substances must be strictly controlled, and the Europe of 25 must set an example by swiftly banning their export.
I particularly welcome the adoption of paragraph 17, which proposes to restrict the use of mercury in dental amalgams by the end of 2007.
Parliament thus confirms its vote of 25&#160;January 2005 on my report relating to the European Environment and Health Action Plan, point 6 of which proposed the use of safer alternatives to the mercury used in dental amalgams.
The approach to be endorsed is that all the potential dangers involved in the use of mercury in dental amalgam should be examined, and action taken on the basis of what emerges from that examination. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make some observations as an explanation for voting against the report on a European Information Society for Growth and Employment by Mr&#160;Paasilinna.
The aims of Project 2010 include innovation and investment in research.
On the other hand, however, research gives rise in all fields of human endeavour to demand for information and communications technology.
It is precisely this aspect of feedback that seems to me to be lacking in this report, and yet it can be one of the motors for economic growth and job creation within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy.
The passing reference to the Seventh Framework Programme is not commensurate with the importance of this programme for growth and employment.
Work skills in digital technologies are now viewed as one of the key competencies and we must develop them within a framework of lifelong learning. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, here we are now, seeking new ways of making more and more things digital.
The fact that information and communications technology accounts for 40% of economic growth is indeed impressive.
It is to these small and medium-sized businesses that we will have to give more support. &#160;&#160; . – I voted in favour of the report on a European Information Society for growth and employment because I believe that access to information and communication technologies is a prerequisite for economic development and social progress.
I welcome the idea of combating the digital divide, and it is worth pointing out just how much the European Union has missed out by not applying a coherent policy with regard to the licences of the third generation of mobile telephones – the UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecom System) – which were sold at auction by the Member States in appalling conditions given the possibilities that this technology offered in terms of political coherence.
Our amendments were aimed at guaranteeing free access to technology and knowledge, freedom of movement and exchange of knowledge, and at strengthening the role of intellectual property in relation to the free movement and dissemination of knowledge.
The report supports the continued policy of liberalisation and the use of communications for the purpose of transmitting ‘European ideas and values’, in other words that of turning Information and Communications Technology (ICT) into yet another EU propaganda tool.
I particularly welcome the call for the early adoption of the 7th Research Framework Programme and the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme (2007-2013), both aimed at providing the appropriate financial resources to support the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) as a driving force for competitiveness, growth and employment.
On the one hand, I feel it is extremely important to realise that in terms of new technologies, almost everything that is said reflects a backward-looking approach.
Accordingly, the purpose of this regulation should be, on the one hand, to open up the markets to competition, and on the other to boost investment in innovation.
This sector is largely made up of small and medium-sized businesses, located in many cases in regions where they are the main source of employment.
In 2005 there were more than 11&#160;000 companies, employing more than 500&#160;000 workers directly or indirectly and producing around 700 million shoes, representing 10% of world production.
I should also point out that, in response to the opening-up process, the footwear industry has been extensively restructured and now concentrates its production on the higher price range in particular.
Just as in the case of textiles, the impact of the liberalisation process has been important in terms of putting an end to the quota system.
The monitoring system introduced by the Commission clearly demonstrates that imports, from China in particular – but not just from China – have seen a spectacular increase.
Last year, the average increase in imports in terms of value and quantity exceeded 450% and, in some cases, it was as high as 900%.
On 23 February, Commissioner Mandelson announced to the media that the Commission was going to recommend an increase in tariffs of 19.4% for China and 16.8% for Vietnam.
The fact is that the Commission adopted an unprecedented decision, introducing provisional tariffs for a period of five months by way of an antidumping measure.
I am aware that this is rather more than a simple case of dumping.
In some cases, we are talking about the survival of the sector in Europe and also about the possibility of relocation as an appropriate response to developments.
At the same time, it should be pointed out that China is trying to achieve market economy status within the WTO.
This is therefore an opportunity, Commissioner, to demonstrate to the citizens that the Commission is going to do everything in its power to ensure that the trade rules are respected, including, if necessary, having recourse to the WTO’s dispute settlement body.
Commissioner, in view of the expectations of the industry in question and the sensitivity of European public opinion, I would like to know what actions the Commission will take to ensure that that country respects WTO rules.
The measures that you have proposed are controversial.
What I do know is that antidumping investigations are based on laws that must be applied fully without any kind of parallel consideration.
The European footwear industry is in the front line of global competition.
Europe’s trade defence measures target unfair trade.
That is why, having been presented with a preliminary analysis and assessment by my services, I have recommended to the Commission and to Member States provisional duties in this case.
I am suggesting that they be phased in over a period of five months, beginning at about 4% in April.
I have proposed to exclude high-tech sports shoes which are no longer produced in significant numbers in Europe.
Our proposed anti-dumping measures on leather shoes tackle, in contrast, unfair competition.
The Commission has a legal obligation to investigate such a claim and a legal right to protect European producers against such practice.
Some of your questions address the overall situation in the European footwear sector.
Some producers have increased their exports and others, including Turkey and some of the ACP countries, have seen their exports to the EU and elsewhere hold steady or fall.
Here in Europe, more than 40&#160;000 footwear jobs have been lost and more than 1&#160;000 footwear companies have closed down since 2001.
We should also acknowledge that European producers have significantly contributed to the change by relocating their production to Asia in quite a number of cases.
However, we can shape globalisation, even harness its dynamic potential for renewal and, indeed, for innovation in Europe.
We must also be robust in our defence of the rules and of fair competition.
However, we cannot deny Asia its comparative advantages or the competitive industry that is lifting hundreds of millions in the developing world out of poverty.
However, Commissioner, you said one or two things in your speech which concern me.
I understand the situation with China very clearly and I would accept your position, but one of the things that we are trying to do in the Western world at the moment is make poverty history.
I think we as MEPs and you as the Commission have missed an opportunity to get the message across about dumping.
My first question to the Commissioner is: will the EU produce an overall assessment of the conditions of competition and state intervention in the People’s Republic of China?
The European shoe industry is a relatively small sector, restricted to some four European countries, and already delocalised to a great extent as it is.
China is keen to enjoy the benefits of WTO membership but overlooks the obligations that this entails.
Most of all, can the Commissioner explain to us how we can convince the workers in the European shoe industry, who are at risk of losing their jobs as a result of unfair competition, of the benefits to be derived from globalisation of this kind? &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, there is a certain sense of déjà vu in this debate.
I believe that we need to be genuinely concerned about the impact of competition from companies based in China – not just on Europe, but on poorer countries such as the EuroMed countries – and recognise that until we have a system of managed trade, the winners will always be concentrated in a handful of ever fewer countries and the losers will prove to be the majority. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, for ten years the European Union and the United States have been leading negotiations on China’s entry into the WTO.
It appears that the anti-dumping measures in no way comply with Community legislation or case-law and may have an extremely negative impact on the whole system of EU trade policy and consumers: we should therefore conduct a wholesale rethink of the WTO’s laissez-faire doctrines.
If we do not call into question the WTO’s laissez-faire policies, then after textiles and shoes will come a long list of other products. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I should like to express my sympathy to Commissioner Mandelson.
Commissioner, you have got an impossible job.
You recognise what is going on in the world, but you are battling against the revived economic nationalism that exists within this European Union.
Import prices are artificially low; there cannot be any fair competition when the starting points are so wide apart and there is no equity when dumping is the rule.
The level of protection laid down in the proposal is too low, and is inadequate, especially if it is spread over six months, during the course of which the Chinese will not wait for the duty to reach 20% to export huge quantities of shoes.
A study of the broader situation reveals that unemployment in this sector has affected a couple of states in the European Union in particular.
It also reveals that those same states are refusing to recognise the free market within the European Union.
In my view, this demonstrates a certain lack of consistency and I appeal to the governments of the Member States in question to remedy the situation. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, you have supplied us with the figures: today, footwear production in Europe has decreased by around 30%, import prices have fallen by more than 20% and, above all, the sector has lost nearly 40&#160;000 jobs.
This new situation makes it all the more necessary to monitor the ongoing restructuring process in the footwear sector, whereby the business world must be encouraged to adapt, and the economic structure of the regions most directly affected by the social impact of the ongoing changes must be rearranged.
At the same time, however, the Commission must commit itself to detecting and combating glaring examples of unfair competition, which is exacerbating an already problematic situation.
In this context, we should welcome the Commission’s decision to adopt anti-dumping measures, after it emerged that China and Vietnam had resorted to unfair practices, such as the artificially low pricing of its exports in this sector.
Such practices are especially unacceptable in view of the fact that these countries already enjoy extraordinary advantages over their competitors.
Little did I know then that since June, the Commission had statistics showing almost a 700% increase in imports of footwear from China, which indicated the serious state intervention in the sector that the Commission revealed five months later.
The cynic in me suggests that these statistics were swept under the carpet in order to end the ‘bra wars’, another sticking plaster when the EU needs long-term solutions.
To add insult to injury, the Commission then went to the press with its plans for anti-dumping duties on leather shoes before even the Member States received the proposals, let alone this Parliament.
Commissioner, EU manufacturers and retailers who fear the future in a market swamped with cheap Asian exports need answers, which you hide from them.
Time and time again, the rapid economic development of Asian countries takes Europe by surprise, and Europe is once again divided.
As these words must be backed up by action, I would call on you, Commissioner, to include the documented state intervention in the shoe industry in the negotiations on market economy status for the People’s Republic of China. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;Mandelson, ladies and gentlemen, it is the same old story: having abolished all restrictions on the import of footwear products from the Far East and having caused such damage to the European and Italian industries in the sector, with the obvious consequences for employment, we are laying the foundations for definite risks in the future to small and medium-sized enterprises.
They will finally be crushed by the unfair competition of goods at the very lowest prices, produced without any proper monitoring of the conditions in the production and distribution chain, either with regard to environmental impact or the social security benefits and employment benefits enjoyed by the labour force.
Otherwise, the accumulation of experiences of violation of the rules of international trade, with the Union reacting after the event, may jeopardise the confidence of European citizens in the fundamental principle of the liberalisation of the world trade system. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ever since the quota system was abolished last year, imports from China have, as has been mentioned, spectacularly increased by around 500%.
That has serious consequences for the competitiveness of the European footwear sector which, faced with this flood of very low-priced imports, is seeing a number of tragic bankruptcies, to say nothing of the job losses that go with them.
Furthermore, our traditional suppliers in the form of candidate countries and countries in the Euromed area have been ousted from the Community market.
In order to combat this distortion of the fundamental rules of international trade, you are proposing some measures to us today.
These laws should make it possible to eliminate either dumping or the losses it causes.
Your proposals are neither robust nor enlightened.
After textiles last year and footwear now, which other sectors will have to be subjected to these unfair practices in the future? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Mandelson, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian situation in the footwear sector prompts me to call for a significant change to the measures proposed by you and in part accepted by the Italian Government.
Italy is already paying very high prices in terms of employment.
The new international division of labour has encouraged low-wage countries to specialise in labour-intensive industries, while high-saving countries concentrate on very capital-intensive industries.
Thus, the countries of the European Union, which used to have a high level of productivity and high wages, are being surpassed by countries that are just as productive but that pay low wages.
If we do not do so, then all of our labour-intensive industries will follow in the footsteps of the footwear industry. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, EU history where anti-dumping is concerned is scary.
When the Commission introduced customs duties on TV sets, consumers had to pay SEK&#160;2.00 for every krona earned by the industry.
In the case of the duties on bed linen from Pakistan, every krona that went to the manufacturers cost consumers SEK&#160;3.00.
In the case of Norwegian salmon, matters were even worse: every krona earned by the salmon producers cost consumers as much as SEK&#160;70.00.
The Danish Government conducted a study showing that the costs to consumers in the EU was eight times greater than manufacturers’ profits and that, in total, the EU was losing more than SEK&#160;2.5 billion.
In total, Swedish consumers can count on paying almost SEK&#160;60 million more for their shoes.
The only EU country in which the business is estimated to be profitable is Slovakia, where SEK&#160;300&#160;000 is estimated to be earned.
I am seriously concerned about the increasing protectionism I encounter in the EU, and I hope that this is the last time the Commission gives way to the demands of protectionists at the expense of citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European footwear sector is experiencing difficulties for two reasons: on the one hand, it is suffering as a result of unfair practices, and, on the other, Commissioner, it is still facing tariff difficulties and other practical obstacles when it comes to accessing third-country markets.
The Commission’s proposal on the antidumping procedure relating to footwear from China and Vietnam is reasonable and balanced, but it contains surprising elements that many people cannot understand, such as not applying the measures that you have proposed either to children’s shoes – which, as you know, are worn not only by children – or to special technology athletic footwear (STAF).
Where dumping exists, duties will have to be imposed that are effective in guaranteeing fair competition conditions and, in this regard, the level of duties and their practical application should be based on their effectiveness, that is to say on how effective they are in eliminating dumping. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, what is lacking in the European Union is a strategy for facing up to globalisation.
The globalisation fund now provides us with a means of dealing with the past, but what solutions do we have for the future?
That is important to our producers within the European Union, and it is important that we in the European Union should keep to the rules, just as we demand that our trading partners should do.
Let us in the EU throw away the post-war protectionist model and take a lead in embracing globalisation. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Mandelson, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that I have the impression that this measure is now devoid of substance.
In the time I have available I think it would be better to stick to shoes, but I can assure you that the question of any anti-dumping duty on bed linen will be properly assessed and properly applied as, in my opinion, it is at the moment.
My role on behalf of the Commission is to listen to what honourable Members have to say and to reflect very carefully on the points and arguments that have been raised.
I can assure you I will reflect on them and on the observations made by Member States so that when I come back to the Commission with final recommendations I will be able to do so having heard the variety, diversity and range of different points and arguments that have been made.
However, having heard so many people this afternoon complain that my intervention is protectionist, unnecessary and unjustified, alongside a slightly greater number of Members of this House who have complained that I am not going far enough, my actions are inadequate and that I should go further, I am tempted to make the easy observation that perhaps I have got the measures just about right between those two rival points of view!
In the case of textiles, we were dealing with fairly-traded goods, albeit subject to a dramatic and sudden increase in volume following the lifting of quotas on Chinese textiles at the beginning of 2005.
Please do not tell me that EUR 1.50 cannot be absorbed across the supply chain by importers and retailers, especially importers and retailers who have benefited from low import prices from China and Vietnam but who have not passed on the effects of those cheaper import prices to consumers – a question that consumers may put to their retailers if they are able to encounter them at some stage in the future.
Young children need three to four pairs of new shoes per year.
In my view, parents should not see any potential hurdles put in the way of buying good-quality shoes for their children.
I am obliged by the regulations that exist within the European Community to observe very strict procedures and use very strict reference countries and companies when I am investigating those of another country that does not enjoy market economy status.
Member States received the Commission’s working document before my press conference on 23&#160;February.
I do not believe that a proper and legitimate way of helping people to adjust to these new forces in the global economy is to encourage people to shelter from them or to pretend that, if we close our eyes or cover our heads with a blanket, these changes, challenges and new sources of competition will somehow go away and leave us alone so that we do not have to respond to them.
We cannot maintain the pretence that we in Europe, by retreating from the competitive challenge we are facing in the global economy, will somehow be able to hide from it and, at the same time, maintain our living standards and our prosperity in the future.
We have to respond to this challenge by putting the emphasis on our competitiveness, innovation and ability to respond to change and to compete more effectively in the future.
There are technical criteria that China needs to fulfil, and it is making progress towards doing so.
Understandably, people in Europe see the growth of China’s market as a threat, but we must understand it as a huge opportunity for us in Europe to sell our own goods and services to that market in future.
However, China has a responsibility to make sure that no artificial or unreasonable barriers remain in place to European goods and services being sold to the Chinese market in ever-growing numbers.
When we get that equation right, then perhaps people will be able to look more sympathetically, as well as technically, at the issue of China’s market economy status. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; I welcome the Commission’s diligence in listening to the demands of small and medium-sized European enterprises worried by the increase in imports from non-EU countries, and the latest proposal for compensatory anti-dumping duties on leather shoes, against China and Vietnam.
The duties proposed are inadequate because they are too low and therefore ineffective.
The calls by the Commission to make innovative changes are reasonable and interesting, but they make sense only in a genuinely equitable and fair competitive environment, and the Commission has a duty to ensure that the international market is just that. &#160;&#160; I want to raise with the Commissioner the plight of a factory in my constituency – 'Dickies' in Midsomer Norton, near Radstock in Somerset – whose future and workforce are threatened by any adverse outcome from your services' current investigation of an anti-dumping complaint regarding protective footwear imported from China.
I have met with representatives of both management and the workforce, including trade union representatives from GMB, and they are united in stating that jobs and livelihoods are at stake should the Commission impose anti-dumping duties on this particular sector.
The imported footwear from China underpins the distribution and manufacturing sections in the Midsomer Norton plant.
Those who introduced the complaint do not manufacture generally in Europe, but source form other third countries rather than China.
Stop this threatened tax on protection, relieve people's understandable concerns and close the file as soon as possible. &#160;&#160; – The situation in the footwear sector is alarming, not least in Portugal.
Just by way of an example, dozens of businesses – among them Ecco and Rhode – in Aveiro District, closed down or laid off workers in 2005.
Unemployment and the risk of poverty have increased, a case in point being C [amp] J Clarks in Castelo de Paiva, where workers were promised work, training and subsidies, only for them to be laid off just two years later.
Once again, we must report that: - With the steep rise in footwear imports from third countries, it was not the so-called consumer whose wallet became fatter, but the large retailers and distributors who accumulated fabulous profits; - It is not third countries that are responsible for the closure of businesses and the loss of jobs; it is the EU, which is at the head of the queue to promote competition and liberalisation of international trade and which maintains the euro at a level that harms manufacturing and exporting, as in the case of footwear.
The real losers in this policy are the workers, small, medium-sized and micro-enterprises, and countries such as Portugal, as borne out by studies and, more importantly, reality. &#160;&#160; It is clear that the EU is facing new competitive challenges on the world market, challenges which cause anxiety and uncertainty for our industry, our workers and our consumers.
Whilst I fear that some EU companies with good employment standards and interests in the Far East (for example Clarks shoes) will be hit by these measures, I am pleased to see certain exemptions to the punitive tariff proposed by the Commission have been obtained, namely in the sensitive children’s footwear sector.
I am inclined to agree with the Commissioner when he states that consumers should be more concerned about the mark-up enjoyed until now by retailers on goods produced cheaply in poor employment and environmental conditions and then sold below the cost of production.
We have already had the opportunity to debate this matter.
Before turning specifically to the European Arrest Warrant, I should like to make one small point, because, underpinning this concept of a judicial area, which was formulated very gradually after the Geneva Appeal in 1996, was the ambition to give Europeans a common sense of justice in an environment in which the authorities do everything possible to prevent Europeans’ freedom – from being circumvented or their rights from being flouted.
This change has been radical.
Furthermore, it has been pointed out on several occasions – including in Article 1 of the framework decision – that, when issuing and implementing the arrest warrant, the Member States and the judicial authorities must ensure that they strictly comply with the principles laid down in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Some of the planned objectives have been fully achieved.
The European Arrest Warrant is an undeniable success story, with 3&#160;000 warrants issued in 2004, 1&#160;000 people arrested and 650 people handed over.
The 2005 figures will undoubtedly show an increase, but they will not be officially available until June or July.
By replacing the old extradition procedure with the European Arrest Warrant, the average duration of the procedures has gone from nine months to 43 days, which is an appreciable gain for both the judges and those standing trial.
To the optional grounds for non-execution provided for by the framework decision, some Member States have added other grounds for refusing extradition.
Even more importantly, the issue of fundamental rights has given rise to considerable transposition problems in Poland and Germany.
In conclusion, I would say that the European Arrest Warrant marks an important step forward in the fight against crime – above all in terms of serving Europeans - and in the creation of a European judicial area.
The first problem stems from the fact that our judicial systems are too different from one another.
The second problem is that most of the Member States are still too keen to control international legal assistance.
To conclude: is more or less harmonisation needed?
The Presidency shares your view – as indeed do I – that the European Arrest Warrant has, in essence, been a success.
It has certainly been a milestone in improving cooperation between the European Union’s Member States, particularly as regards our common desire to combat organised crime and terrorism.
I believe we can also agree that it is of a quite new and exemplary character and has made an essential contribution to the further development of the mutual recognition principle, to which Mrs Hazan refers at several points and on which we agreed at the Tampere Council.
We in the Council, at any rate, regard the European Arrest Warrant as the foundation for all the further work we will do in this area.
Until now, it generally took on average nine months, but the average time has now been reduced to between 40 and 45 days.
This framework decision on the European Arrest Warrant has enabled us to largely comply with this requirement.
If such scrutiny reveals the need for some change in transposition at the national level, then that change will be carried out, but what really matters is that the public should have confidence in what we are doing at the European level.
It is important, though, that we should allow our national courts to perform their essential function within the Member States, that being to examine whether their country’s legal system guarantees protection for fundamental rights.
I do, however, perceive a contradiction in this report, in so far as it highlights, on the one hand, the risk of the discriminatory use of the fundamental rights clause, while at the same time – and this is something else I can fully endorse – stressing the need for the European Arrest Warrant, in its application, to specifically protect human rights and personal freedoms.
As I have already said, the role of the national courts must be to ensure, on the basis of the fundamental rights clause, that the fundamental rights of our citizens are not infringed.
While I am on this subject, I would like to mention a case brought by Belgium before the European Court of Justice, in which the Court is asked to scrutinise the aspects of the arrest warrant relating to fundamental rights.
This list of 32 crimes has been the subject of recurrent debate, and we look forward to a clear statement concerning it.
Let me take this opportunity to point out that the Presidency of the Council sees it as most important that we should treat the uniform application of the framework decision in the individual Member States of the European Union as a core priority.
The presidency, like your House, takes it as read in this regard that the application and functioning of the European Arrest Warrant will need to be evaluated by means of thorough and unbiased examination.
In addition to the European institutions, it is very important that we involve national parliaments in the debate, as was the case last October during the fruitful parliamentary sittings organised by this European Parliament.
We will take account of this when drafting our second evaluation report on the implementation of the Arrest Warrant.
A delay in transposition had in fact prevented us from including this Member State in the first report.
The Commission therefore reserves the right to present proposals aimed at amending the framework decision once more experience has been gained.
Mr&#160;President, I shall now make way for the continuation of the debate, at the end of which I shall no doubt intervene to make other remarks. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Vice-President of the Commission, Mrs President-in-Office of the Council, the report by Mrs Hazan is exceptional.
Ladies and gentlemen, the European arrest warrant tests the willingness to cooperate of and the spirit of mutual respect and mutual trust between the Member States of the European Union.
It constitutes a huge step in the direction of the creation of a single area of justice and security, as well as a strong measure for combating crime.
It goes without saying that each Member State individually and all the Member States in general have a fundamental obligation to comply faithfully with and apply human rights in their judicial proceedings and there is no room for needless doubt.
Secondly, the Council needs to adopt, as quickly as possible, the proposal to harmonise minimum criteria in criminal proceedings.
In fact, this report not only enables us to assess the European Arrest Warrant - the first practical instrument of the European judicial area - but also gives us the opportunity to redefine our priorities as far as the implementation of a genuine European judicial area is concerned.
As we have said, the European Arrest Warrant has been an overwhelming success: 2&#160;600 warrants have been issued throughout the European Union since its creation, with the result that judicial procedures have been considerably speeded up.
This success shows that the Member States are willing to work together.
The European Arrest Warrant has nonetheless encountered obstacles put in the way of its application by certain governments, and I regret Italy’s delay in transposing the legislation.
This also illustrates the Member States’ lack of political will and the limits imposed by the method of decision making in this area.
Nevertheless, the success of the European Arrest Warrant demonstrates that it is impossible to limit ourselves to civil law.
We must be more ambitious and extend judicial cooperation to criminal law.
That is why we consider it crucial to have recourse to Article 42 and the ‘passerelle’ in order to permit a minimum harmonisation of European criminal legislation.
Furthermore, we must bridge the democratic gap, and only the full involvement of the European Parliament in the creation of the European judicial area will enable fundamental rights to be protected.
Let us make progress in police matters, certainly, but we must also set high standards with regard to fundamental rights.
I had the honour to do so in 2001.
Experience has shown that the warrant is Europe’s chief asset in the fight against cross-border crime, allowing our judicial authorities to reduce the extradition process to an average of 13 days in over half of all cases.
This may have the appearance of decisive action and being tough on crime, but it is at the same time an obstacle to cooperation in the area of extradition.
Three years after the arrest warrant was adopted, the situation remains unchanged.
The framework decision for procedural rights of suspects has not yet been adopted by the Council.
I would join Mr Watson in his appeal to the Council to clarify which Member States are opposed to an improvement in the rights of suspects and for what reason.
Indeed, what being said, also by Mr&#160;Demetriou, is that whilst all Member States must adhere to the rights of suspects and the human rights convention, there are also a huge number of legal cases running in Strasbourg.
Equally, there are very many differences between the Member States, particularly in relation to those procedures.
Once we have common agreements on the rights of suspects, suspects will also be surrendered much more easily.
It would, however, be a mistake to think about distorting national constitutions in order to make the arrest warrant work.
Finally, it is not possible to think of creating a European arrest warrant without first establishing common minimum standards for criminal procedure and without putting in place shared procedural guarantees.
Parliament has already expressed an opinion on minimum procedures, and we are waiting for the Council to go forward on this point.
In fact, the European arrest warrant can certainly be a useful tool in removing the extradition of criminals from the political arena, and there have already been some positive examples on this point, but the procedure is vitiated by a fatal flaw, an original sin that has sprung from the haste of having to react to terrorist attacks by enacting emergency legislation.
The current list of offences is too broad, and that may result in legal uncertainty and discrimination.
Member States are therefore seizing every opportunity to apply the criterion of double criminality.
Mrs Hazan is right in urging the Council to ensure that this double criminality be abolished.
The list can only be extended whilst guaranteeing legal certainty if all specified offences are defined at European level.
Unfortunately, however, like all of us here in Parliament, the rapporteur seems to be working at somewhat of a disadvantage, because we do not have access yet to the Council and the Commission’s evaluation mechanism concerning the operation of the European Arrest Warrant.
Some courts have put a question mark about the operation of the European Arrest Warrant, whether as regards its transposition into international law by the mechanism used or as regards the way that certain courts have interpreted elements of the arrest warrant process.
Irrespective of harmonisation, this idea of mutual respect, trust and understanding between the judicial authorities is the first step towards creating a wider and more inclusive area of judicial operation.
My last point is that we should not rush towards achieving all these goals in the short term.
Let us not forget that some countries have only transposed the framework decision in the last number of months.
Finally, fundamental respect for human rights and freedoms must be at the core of all our work in this area. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago, when our state security managed to let Fehriye Erdal, a dangerous terrorist from the Turkish terrorist movement DHKP-C, escape, the day before she was due to be sentenced to four year’s imprisonment, and without even one minister being called to account over it, Belgium was once again held up to ridicule by the entire European Union.
In other Member States, the DHKP-C has been listed as a dangerous terror group for a long time, but not so in Belgium, where Erdal enjoyed shelter and asylum undisturbed.
If we want to carry out an effective assessment into the uniform rules and procedures to fight cross-border crime, including terrorism, using the European arrest warrant among others, then the only conclusion I can come to when blunders of this kind occur is that the European Union still has a very long way to go. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like firstly to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Hazan, on a report that is undoubtedly accurate and rigorous.
It is therefore essential that we do not reintroduce verification of double criminality, that we resolve the various forms of incompatibility with different Constitutions and that the national judges do not introduce supplementary instruments before another attack obliges us urgently and hurriedly to introduce modifications to this extremely important Warrant.
Unequivocal will is undoubtedly required, and we must also remember the extremely important work of a Home Affairs Minister of that era, Antoine Duquesne, who is not here today but who played a decisive and crucial role in making it possible for the European Arrest Warrant to be the subject of our debate here this afternoon. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Minister, Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to take my turn in congratulating the rapporteur on her report.
That is why we are also calling, as a first step, for the approval of the framework decision, with the European Parliament's amendments, on certain procedural rights within the framework of criminal proceedings in the European Union.
We also hope that the future human rights service will take on a substantial role in the protection of and respect for human rights and personal freedoms and in the field of the European arrest warrant. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the utility of the European arrest warrant was illustrated, especially for my constituents in London, when Hussein Osman, a suspect in the 21&#160;July attempted bombings, was returned to Britain to face justice in weeks rather than years.
However, two thirds of Member States have introduced explicit grounds for refusal: violation of fundamental rights.
It is with that in mind, Mrs Gastinger, that I find it quite simply incomprehensible that the Council should allow the framework decision on procedural rights in criminal proceedings to drag in this way without, to date, doing anything about it.
These rights include, of course, the requirement that the accused be informed of their rights in a language with which they are familiar.
Our safeguards against any attempt by the state to interfere in freedoms and rights go back hundreds of years and are protected by common and statute law.
It also means no offence can exist that is not an offence in the UK: xenophobia, for example, can stand as a charge in the UK.
We still enjoy the presumption of innocence, protection of trial by jury and freedom from double jeopardy, despite the disgraceful efforts of the Blair Government to fall into line with what the EU chooses to call law.
Someone should tell Mrs&#160;Wallström ... &#160;&#160; – Mrs Gastinger, Mr&#160;Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to begin by congratulating Mrs Hazan on her excellent report.
As Mr Mayor Oreja said, we welcome the creation of the European Arrest Warrant as an innovative and highly effective step in developing judicial cooperation and stepping up cooperation and mutual trust.
The warrant will guarantee equal legal protection for EU citizens and will become one of the main instruments in the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
Unfortunately, this first assessment has revealed a number of problems preventing it from being implemented in full and undermining mutual trust.
There have been difficulties in its transposition, for example, recourse to constitutional jurisdiction in various Member States, and practical obstacles in using the warrant, such as the translation, transmission and use of different forms.
There has also been resistance among several Member States wishing to retain certain elements of the traditional extradition system, such as control over double jeopardy and the intervention of political authorities in the judicial procedure.
I should like to highlight three points: Firstly, I wish to reiterate the benefits that adopting the draft Constitutional Treaty would bring to this area of judicial and police cooperation, in particular the removal of the pillars.
As Mr Demetriou said, we need to make use of the resources at our disposal, including the referred to in Article 42 of the Treaty enabling the Member States to incorporate the European arrest warrant in the first pillar so as to ensure greater transparency and democratic control by Parliament and legal control by the Court of Justice.
Firstly, it is to be regretted that pursuant to the current legal system the European Arrest Warrant is a third pillar instrument and does not come within the competence of either the European Parliament or the European Court of Justice.
In addition, more procedures will become part of Community competence.
The House has heard about the situation in Germany and in Cyprus.
There are also difficulties implementing the European Arrest Warrant in my own country, Poland.
It has become part of the Criminal Code and is being implemented, but in April 2005 the Constitutional Court ruled that the Warrant was unconstitutional.
I would like to hope that Poland will resolve this contradictory situation in time. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the two basic poles in European cooperation on criminal matters are the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States.
These two principles complement each other; however, their implementation is difficult to achieve and will take a great deal of time.
Nonetheless, every possible effort must be made to bring about a common criminal policy in the European Union.
The European Arrest Warrant constitutes a first, important step in the principle of the mutual recognition of criminal judgments and helps to consolidate a common legal culture.
Naturally, despite the fact that progress has been made with the procedure to adapt the European Arrest Warrant, there are still certain difficulties which continue, among other things, with the uniform or non-uniform transposition of the framework decision into the national laws of the Member States and the categories of offences whose criminality is not checked.
Similarly, and I address myself to the President-in-Office of the Council and Austrian Minister, Mrs&#160;Gastinger, I wonder why there should be this list of 32 crimes and why we do not simplify the entire process by saying that all offences punished by over three years in prison are subject to this arrangement.
The fact is that it was a first and vital step towards our jointly combating crime and terrorism on the basis of the mutual recognition principle.
Several Members have asked me to say something about the minimum procedural safeguards in criminal trials, and I think this is a very important point.
Mr Watson, Mrs Buitenweg, Mr Catania, Mr Lambrinidis, Mrs&#160;Ludford and Mrs Kaufmann have raised the issue.
I am sure that you are aware that we spent a lot of time discussing this whole area during the informal Council meeting in Vienna on 13 and 14 January.
I am also sure that you are aware that this framework decision – and I do not hesitate to say what I am about to say – is, at the moment, in a sort of dead-end, and this is something that all of us in the Council very much regret.
A look at the details reveals that these doubts have to do, in particular, with the scope and similar points, which we are discussing, but I can assure you, on behalf of the Austrian Presidency, that we regard this as a high-priority matter and that we do want to achieve real progress on it during our presidency.
We must also, however, bear in mind the fact that the minimum procedural guarantees are one point on which we have to add value to the Human Rights Convention, more specifically to its Article 6, for that Article 6 is our common foundation in Europe, and something to which we all feel committed.
Mrs Roure raised another important issue, that of what progress we have achieved with the other instruments, essentially the European evidence procedure and the exchange of information between judicial authorities.
If I may turn to the framework decision on the implementation and content of the exchange of information from criminal records between the Member States and the framework decision on the protection of personal data processed in the course of police and judicial cooperation, I can tell you that we are discussing this in working parties, and, here too, we believe that we will be able to move forward.
Extradition and the application of the European Arrest Warrant continue, nevertheless, to be options in other areas in which only double criminality is checked in order for the European Arrest Warrant to come into play.
I would like to say to Mr&#160;Watson that, unfortunately, the Commission is not able to launch proceedings for breach in accordance with Community law since this is a third pillar instrument.
I am particularly happy to hear what some Members said regarding the possibility, with which I would obviously agree, of transferring to the first pillar an instrument that is of such great importance in the fight against terrorism and crime; that would clearly give rise to the positive result of even more effective and forceful monitoring than is currently possible for us.
I would like to conclude by saying that it will be necessary to integrate this European action programme with the European evidence warrant.
I have already said this, but I say it again now: I find it strange that we have been able to reach agreement on transferring people from one country to another, while we have not succeeded in transferring the evidence, which is a considerably less significant element in terms of invasion of fundamental rights, and of mutual trust.
There are legal arguments, but all legal arguments lend themselves to debate.
At the same time, the repressive approach must constantly be balanced by boosting rights and freedoms, and this will give us one more political card with which to combat crime. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0013/2006).
The Council is observing the situation as regards the detained opposition leaders, representatives of civil society organisations, newspaper publishers and journalists with close attention.
It also urged that all the detainees should be given the right to receive visits from their family members and from the International Red Cross and/or other appropriate representatives of the international community.
A similar demand was made in a joint statement by the ambassadors of the European Union and the United States of America in Addis Ababa on 6 November 2005.
Since the arrests at the beginning of November 2005, representatives of the European Union have regularly raised the case of these detainees in meetings with the Ethiopian Government and also brought it directly to the attention of the Prime Minister, Meles Zenawi, in the course of the political dialogue under Article 8 of the Cotonou Agreement.
The diplomatic representatives of the European Union in Addis Ababa have agreed to raise the subject of respect for human rights and the rule of law as central elements in the political dialogue with Ethiopia, together with the demand that all those persons detained after the political demonstrations in June and November be set at liberty and that their relatives, their lawyers and humanitarian organisations be guaranteed access to them.
The intention is that an observer should monitor the trial of the opposition leader Hailu Shawel and other persons and report back to the EU representatives in Addis Ababa.
The European Union will continue to raise these issues with the Ethiopian Government and to monitor the situation of the detainees with close attention. &#160;&#160; I am slightly disappointed in the answer to the question.
Our policy on development aid focuses on good governance and respect for human rights and it certainly does not seem to be the case here.
If you look at the fact that we gave approximately EUR&#160;900 million to Ethiopia between 2002 and 2005, we do not seem to be getting any respect for human rights in that country.
We are reducing the part of our aid that goes to the government directly and trying to find ways and means of channelling those funds directly to the population, where it is needed.
On 13 and 14 March, there will be a conference in Paris in which the future of development aid for Ethiopia will be discussed and new ways will be found to help the poor people of Ethiopia directly, without channelling those funds directly to the government.
It is clear we should not be channelling any funds through the Ethiopian Government but we should continue to encourage NGOs to be involved in Ethiopia.
What measures does the Presidency intend to take within the EU to strengthen independent radio and television stations and other democratic forces in Iran? &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, as the Council Conclusions of 7&#160;November&#160;2005 also indicate, the Council is agreed on the importance of supporting political reform in Iran and of promoting human rights and democracy.
The Council has endeavoured in the past and will endeavour in future to promote political reform, namely by supporting various authorities and organisations in Iran, including Iranian civil society.
It is with this objective in mind that the EU has resumed its comprehensive political dialogue, and it is also making intensive endeavours towards restoring a meaningful, constructive human rights dialogue.
Unfortunately, no human rights dialogue is taking place in Iran.
I believe that a well thought-out strategy is required for dealing with the human rights situation in Iran, and I wonder if we might perhaps draw on our experience from the period when we supported the Belorussian opposition by broadcasting to it from Europe in Belorussian.
If we succeed in imposing the framework conditions that permit a meaningful dialogue, and which also support civil society, we shall be glad to resume this dialogue.
We hope to be able to resume the dialogue – which we also hope will be meaningful and beneficial – even before the end of the Austrian Presidency. &#160;&#160; – The question is specifically about strengthening democratic forces in Iran.
It is currently on the EU terrorist list, presumably because the Government of Iran put it there.
When George Bush made his famous speech, naming Iran as part of the ‘axis of evil’, Iran was part of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
We are trying to carry on a dialogue that is meaningful and not respond in a way that would shut the door on the possibility for dialogue.
The tools used by the EU in following this political line are the Association Agreement between the EU and Israel, which envisages such contact, and the EU–Israel Action Plan, which was agreed in early 2005 within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy.
The EU and all its Foreign Ministers continue to follow this line of fairness and of speaking clearly – including to Israel – when it comes to drawing attention to activities that we consider contrary to international law. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to thank the representative of the Austrian Presidency but, at the same time, I want to express my regret about the bureaucratic way in which he replied, as representative of the Presidency, to my question on an issue which truly constitutes violation of the principles of international law and the Founding Charter of the UN.
I believe that I made myself very clear when I said that, wherever the Council considers conduct to be contrary to international law, it is taking every opportunity to say so openly at all levels.
That is exactly the policy of the European Union.
We encourage those contacts and projects that are in line with international law, and we criticise when they are not in line with international law. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, as pointed out in the question, EU companies are contributing to infrastructural projects in occupied territory.
These are projects clearly contrary to international law and international humanitarian legislation.
Naturally, the EU supports only projects that are in accordance with international law and that conform to the rules.
In addition, in the Presidency Conclusions of the Tampere European Council – which has already been mentioned here today – the Council emphasised that the principle of mutual recognition should become the cornerstone of judicial cooperation, and that mutual recognition and the necessary approximation of legislation would facilitate the judicial protection of individual rights.
This was also confirmed in the Programme of measures to implement the principle of mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters that was adopted by the Council and the Commission.
This proposal, which is currently being examined by the competent bodies of the Council, and with which we shall try to make considerable progress under our presidency, is aimed at improving the rights of all suspects and of defendants by guaranteeing them a uniform level of protection throughout the European Union.
The fact that the principle of mutual recognition is being realised within the framework of a purely judicial procedure also means that legal protection is guaranteed by independent judicial authorities, which is a great advantage.
It should also be borne in mind in this connection that, as a rule, the legal instruments based on the principle of mutual recognition contain a general human rights clause confirming that the obligation to respect fundamental rights and general legal principles pursuant to Article&#160;6 of the Treaty on European Union is not affected.
Finally, the Proposal for a Council Regulation establishing a European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, which was presented by the Commission in July&#160;2005 and is currently being examined by the competent bodies of the Council, represents a further step on the way to an effective EU human rights policy. &#160;&#160; – I am much obliged to the President-in-Office for her comprehensive answer.
Indeed, that is one of the reasons why we regret that the European Constitutional Treaty is not yet in force, because one of the major benefits I can see in this Constitutional Treaty is that it would incorporate that very Charter of Fundamental Rights.
It would no longer be necessary to discuss precisely those minimum standards for procedural safeguards that we were debating in great depth earlier if our Treaties had a single legal basis.
In addition, they called for the rule of law, the right to due process and human rights to be fully respected, and for the prompt lifting of the state of emergency; which, as I have said, was then indeed lifted, on 3&#160;March. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Minister, thank you for your information.
I should therefore like to ask you what you will do to bring about the immediate release of the members of parliament detained and of the trade unionists who are still in gaol. &#160;&#160; . – I can assure the honourable Member that, in these cases, as in all cases of flagrant human rights violations, especially those concerning representatives of the people, the EU is continually, regularly, and wherever possible working to ensure compliance with the relevant human rights provisions and standards.
Where judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters is concerned some steps have already been taken to make judicial enforcement abroad easier.
In specific terms, we are concerned here with two regulations in particular: firstly, the Regulation creating a European order for payment procedure and, secondly, the Regulation establishing a European small claims procedure.
Both regulations create new procedural opportunities, which will also, in particular, strengthen consumer protection throughout the EU.
If consumers are faced with a legal dispute in connection with their cross-border financial transactions, they should now have recourse to the institutions organising judicial cooperation between the judicial authorities of the individual Member States.
The two new procedures will therefore supplement the instruments that have been adopted up to now in the field of judicial cooperation – the simplified procedure for taking evidence and the minimum standards for legal aid, to name but a few – and thus further augment the legal remedies within the EU.
The Regulation creating a European order for payment procedure will make it possible in future for EU citizens to obtain a European order for payment upon application to a court, in respect of payment notifications that are possibly uncontested by the debtor.
This will make it easier for the creditor to subsequently assert this order in the Member States.
Further to Parliament’s positive opinion in December 2005, it proved possible to reach political agreement on this regulation as early as 21&#160;February&#160;2006, at the most recent Justice and Home Affairs Council.
The establishment of a European small claims procedure – the second crucial point here – should simplify and accelerate the enforcement of cross-border small claims.
In addition, the court is free to determine the means of proof and the extent to which evidence is taken, according to the individual case.
The Commission’s Judicial Atlas, in particular, which is available to every man and woman on the Internet, plays a very valuable role in this connection, because this enables jurisdiction and similar matters to be accessed very simply throughout Europe.
To this end, it is particularly essential, from our point of view, that cooperation with the vital institutions concerned is very constructive, very swift and very efficient.
That is a crucial aspect.
I envisage our dealing with these instruments, too, in future, although this will not be done primarily by the Justice and Home Affairs Council, but rather will fall within the domain of the Competitiveness Council. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, President-in-Office of the Council, I, too, believe that the internal market needs a functional legal system and, particularly, a functional system of law enforcement.
Given the disturbing picture given in reports from the EU Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia based in Vienna of the extent of and failure to tackle racist crime in Europe, how can it be justified for the Council not to prioritise this legislation for a pan-European approach to outlaw criminal behaviour motivated by racial hatred? &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, this takes us to another very delicate area.
There has, of course, been a Proposal for a framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia from the Commission, which was presented on 29&#160;November&#160;2001.
Subsequently, on 24&#160;February&#160;2005, the Council instructed its working party on substantive criminal law to continue the discussions on the proposal.
Accordingly, the working party resumed the work on the proposal, based on the state of affairs reached in 2003.
The debate on this framework decision at the Council meeting on 2&#160;and 3&#160;June&#160;2005 made it clear that there is no scope for consensus among Member States.
The seminar will take place in Vienna from 20–22&#160;June&#160;2006 and will discuss selected problems connected with this proposal.
As I am sure you can imagine – indeed, this also emerged from the recent discussions on the caricatures – we find ourselves once more in the midst of the area of tension between our political message – that we unambiguously oppose racism and xenophobia – and freedom of expression.
It is intended that two representatives of each of the Member States, acceding countries and candidate countries participate in this seminar.
We also intend to invite NGOs, in particular, who are familiar with the issues, and also representatives of the Council of Europe, of the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, of the EU network of independent experts in fundamental rights, and of the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance.
In addition, as already mentioned in connection with Question No&#160;4 on the protection of fundamental rights, I should like to point out that the European Council decided in December&#160;2003 to establish a European Fundamental Rights Agency, a fact it confirmed in December&#160;2004.
The Council’s ad hoc working party on fundamental rights and citizenship is currently examining the proposal for a regulation presented by the Commission in June&#160;2005.
We know that this is a very tight schedule, but we hope to be able to keep to it.
The Austrian Presidency attaches the highest priority to this issue and hopes to be able to conclude the negotiations so that the Agency can start work on schedule. &#160;&#160; There are some difficult issues – such as Holocaust denial and protecting freedom of speech – but it is scandalous that in 2006 there is still no EU-wide response to the alarming and increasing problem of racist violence.
Some countries, such as Greece, Italy and Portugal, currently fail even to record racial attacks.
We assume that the seminar we are holding will objectify the matter again and, by means of expert opinions – particularly large numbers of expert opinions – will produce an outcome that will make it possible for us to strike the necessary balance in future between our shared aspiration: namely, to oppose racism and xenophobia most effectively, but without putting freedom of expression at risk as a result.
At all events, we wish to make quite considerable progress, and we hope that, given a new impetus, it proves possible for the Finnish Presidency to successfully conclude this dossier, or at least to continue the negotiations, on the basis of our work. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Minister, racism and xenophobia have even penetrated sport and football.
I am quite certain that Germany will take the appropriate measures. &#160;&#160; My question, Question No&#160;8, also deals with xenophobia.
I come here every month to table questions but they are never reached.
Some of these questions were tabled in December, but we waited patiently for three months to put the questions to her.
I also see that sport is capable of building bridges in this regard, because when young people, especially – who are our future, after all – and often adults, too, exercise together, they can then go on to undertake activities together.
I do believe, however, that this is an important political message that all of us together should pass on. &#160;&#160; My sincerest thanks for these comments.
Mr Newton Dunn made that point.
The Minister has been very gracious.
We have put down serious questions on radicalisation and other issues, which have now not been answered after three months.
While last week I was told that my question on the maintenance or modification of the decision to reduce the number of Spanish translators in the European Commission was going to be the third question to be replied to during this Question Time, last night I received a communication indicating that the President of Parliament had judged my question to be inadmissible.
On these issues the project under way covers all the EU Member States. &#160;&#160; I would like to thank the Commissioner for that.
Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the project currently under way will finish in April 2006, in a few weeks’ time; the next project has already started and will finish during the course of the year.
It is the European Central Bank’s primary objective to maintain price stability in the euro area by ensuring that medium- to long-term inflation expectations in the euro area remain solidly anchored at levels consistent with price stability.
The European Central Bank supports economic growth and job creation in the euro area.
As regards the last part of the question on the economic outlook, in its last interim forecast the Commission expected economic growth in 2006 to accelerate to between 1.9% and 2% in the euro area, which is close to estimates of the area’s potential growth rate.
All borrowers want an interest rate which is as low as possible.
These rates are very low at the moment in Europe and they do not harm economic growth.
I can only speak as an economist.
But, at this stage, the change of interest rate is quite modest in the Central Bank.
We do not intervene in those policies. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, three states – Slovenia, Lithuania and Estonia – are going to join the eurozone next year.
I can only discuss this issue as an economist.
As a citizen of one of these countries, of course I support enlargement of the euro area, and countries with proper financial policies will definitely strengthen the euro area.
It would also mean enlargement for the euro and its influence in the world.
The new programmes, once fully established, will enable individuals to benefit more from a true common European area of mobility.
These programmes will allow institutions in the fields of education, training and culture to improve the way they operate together.
In this context, the simplification of administrative and financial procedures is a key issue.
Successive evaluations and large-scale public consultation exercises have demonstrated that the current programmes would indeed benefit from simplification.
At programme level, it is proposed to reduce the number of programmes in the area of education and training by putting Erasmus, Leonardo da Vinci, Comenius and Grundtvig under the same umbrella: an integrated lifelong learning programme.
The design of the new programmes – especially in the youth, culture and citizenship area – is intended to simplify access for the potential beneficiaries.
For example, in the new Culture 2007 programme we have created a more open and accessible programme in terms of its very structure, with three main objectives compared to the former eight.
We have included provisions to that effect in the draft decision.
During the ongoing codecision procedure for adoption of the programme decisions, both Parliament and the Council have supported the Commission’s aim to achieve maximum simplification, not only in the form of the programme actions but also in their administrative and financial requirements, and to find the right balance between flexibility and ease of use on the one hand and clarity of purpose and appropriate financial and procedural safeguards on the other hand.
The second amendment is that the limit on flat-rate amounts has been increased from EUR 5000 to EUR 10&#160;000.
In addition, several flat-rate amounts are now possible in one grant and the Commission can authorise the use of flat-rate amounts even if they are not specified in the basic act. &#160;&#160; – Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your full and informative reply.
I am delighted about the simplification measures you presented.
However, should we perhaps understand that simplification also applies to the financing of these programmes?
An integrated, free, democratic Europe can be based only on integrated, free, democratic societies.
Member States, their governments, public authorities in the broader sense and European institutions are thus invited to support such tools.
Some of the programmes are already being used to that end.
The European Youth Pact, adopted last year, is one of the special tools for integration and provides some answers for the youth of Europe, young people who have many difficulties or are in vulnerable situations in individual countries.
I do not want to speak on behalf of my colleagues, but these issues are taken into account and promoted via different programmes which we have in our remit.
I have expressed gratitude for the support in Parliament for these programmes because they have impact.
The future of Europe without those programmes would be more in question.
I mentioned some of the proposals that are already in the implementation rules adopted by the Commission.
The Commission has proposed more than 100 amendments to the Financial Regulation.
As of January 2006, we have established a new executive agency that deals with all individual cases and individual projects and works closely with national agencies.
This centralised system for the operation of our programmes is a reasonable tool.
National agencies operate in Member States in concrete national languages.
Perhaps we can go into more detail in future, when we discuss the Financial Regulation itself.
There are some concrete measures and proposals on how to simplify life for the user of small grants, in contrast to the millions used for infrastructure or research projects.
The first of these areas deals with stimulating entrepreneurial thinking among young people.
Education should stimulate the entrepreneurial spirit in young people and open up new possibilities for their future, along with the means for developing basic entrepreneurial skills.
One of the objectives of the communication is to improve the way that young people are being prepared for their future lives, future occupations and jobs.
The Commission believes that the benefits of entrepreneurship and education in the field of entrepreneurship should not be measured merely by the number of new companies or innovative enterprises and new jobs.
According to the communication, the Commission considers the fostering of entrepreneurial mindsets through education and professional training to be fully consistent and compatible with the aims we have set ourselves and with those formulated by MEPs, including even the author of this question, Mrs&#160;Maria Badia i&#160;Cutchet, within the context of improving general education in all areas and ensuring that in the future European citizens shall remain free and independent, with better conditions for development. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to thank you for your words, which have definitely reassured me a little, because, having read this Communication, I am rather concerned that we might be going too far in subjecting education to the exigencies of competition and the market.
We believe – and when I say ‘we’, I also mean Member States, because there is strong consensus on the set of key competences, which include entrepreneurial initiative – that it is about an ability to understand the complexity, an ability to take initiatives, to turn initiative into action and take up personal responsibility.
I think we have the potential, but most blockages or obstacles stem either from our rules, that is to say, how we organise our economies or societies, or from our mentality.
Therefore, I also would like to invite you and all friends of SMEs, all friends of initiatives taken by our citizens and institutions, to promote the important concept of lifelong learning.
I was not surprised but encouraged during the last Question Time when a colleague spoke of lifelong learning as a right of citizens, a right of an individual vis-à-vis the State or its authorities to have access to lifelong learning, not just to basic or secondary education.
To implement such systems, we also need greater mental readiness.
Of course the Commission shares the concern of the honourable Member of Parliament about this issue.
The right to issue coins is one of the most fundamental sovereign rights of a country.
Obviously that was not done properly in this case, so coins have appeared which are similar to euro coins.
In 2000, in some countries, some coins were very similar to euro coins.
Even in my own country, when I was in charge of that area, we issued coins which were similar to Deutschmarks and we therefore had to change our production.
The Commission is working with the Turkish authorities and they have promised to modify their coins slightly.
We are working with the Turkish authorities to ensure that the new production of coins will be slightly modified so that they will not be so similar to euro coins. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, I do realise that there are no grounds for panic, as you say.
If it does, then the producers of smaller coins must make some adjustments so that the situation with the use of similar coins can be avoided.
I must begin by saying that the European Schools constitute one of the most complicated issues in my area of responsibility, and there are a lot of problems.
The system is very independent and complicated.
The rapid enlargement of the European Union has brought a lot of people to our locations – not only to Brussels – and we have a lot of problems regarding the lack of places needed for children in schools and other facilities.
Belgium is the host country and makes quite a significant contribution to the school infrastructure.
At its meeting on 25 and 26 October, the Board of Governors adopted a list of criteria on how to deal with the language sections.
Finally, that must take all considerations into account and come up with a proper solution.
Some preliminary solutions – options A and B – were discussed, but it is really too early to say that one solution is preferable to the other.
That is probably a good idea for parents whose children already go to those schools.
It is very difficult to imagine that the definitive solution will satisfy everybody, but we must find a solution which ensures that the pupils will get the best education.
We will work hard with the Belgian Government and the Brussels authorities to find some transitional solutions to solve short-term problems and shortages in all our facilities.
That is the picture today. &#160;&#160; You are right, of course, Commissioner: Questions Nos 50 and 51 should be taken together, as the subjects are interconnected.
First of all, however, I shall give the floor to the two authors for their supplementary questions. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Kallas, thank you for your reply.
Since option B clearly seems better than option A from many points of view, I wonder whether you are now able to rule out the idea of the Commission raising a costs issue?
With regard to option B, which foresees having almost every section everywhere, there will be much fragmentation, with small groups and small classes, in which case we will be faced with the problem of ensuring good quality teaching and good quality education.
The Commission is providing its input and is most definitely considering all possible options put forward by other parties.
We are trying to play a part in finding a final solution that is more or less acceptable to everybody.
We have been transparent throughout this process and we are now thinking about some kind of compromise solution, an intermediate option between options A and B.
Given that, from the data disseminated within the , it appears that the demographic increases in some sections, such as the Italian section, will be greater over the next few years than that of many other nationalities, is this not a factor that should lead the Commission to choose option B from among the alternatives cited? &#160;&#160; .
The Commission’s opinion is that we should endeavour by all means to avoid that kind of thing.
We do not share the view that option B is the best one, but intensive work will be done to find solutions that satisfy as many parties and parents as possible. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Kallas, I return to the same issue: criterion F, of those adopted in October, stipulates that if a section exists in more than one school then it must be located in schools on the outskirts and in central schools.
We are trying to find a compromise solution.
If you want me to say that I will give all appropriations to option B, I cannot.
With this kind of complicated question I always try to find some kind of compromise solution.
That is probably also the case in this complicated area.
The next meeting of the Board of Governors will take place at the end of April.
As part of the legislative reforms in preparation for acceding to the Union, and with the support of the European Parliament over the years, Romania recently adopted new legislation on child protection.
According to this legislation, which entered into force on 1 January 2005, international adoption is a last resort, if a suitable in-country solution, ranging from smaller homes to foster care, cannot be found.
As to the more precise legal aspects, it should furthermore be noted that there is currently no Community legislation in the field of international adoption.
This means basically that the in the area of child protection has been implemented in Romania and Bulgaria.
The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is taken as a foundation in both Romania and Bulgaria.
The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child does not distinguish between the internal and external borders of the European Union. &#160;&#160; This question is not the only one on the subject; there are also Questions Nos 55 and 56.
We are in regular contact with the Romanian authorities on this issue.
As regards the situation in the childcare sector, it is our understanding, on the basis of the very detailed progress reports, that it has improved on the ground, not least because the European Union has provided substantial support for the restructuring of the childcare sector, accounting for around EUR&#160;160 million in the last 15 years.
The Romanian authorities have established a working party which should finalise its work on 31&#160;March, and the Commission is committed to a close follow-up on this issue.
Concerning the other elements of your question, the 82&#160;000 children currently under social protection, residential care, foster care or placement in enlarged families are benefiting from a child protection structure in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and this is also the case for access to health care and education.
In light of the Commission’s Comprehensive Monitoring Report on the readiness of Romania to accede to the European Union in 2007, which notes the Commission’s concerns relating to Romania’s lack of progress in certain areas in the field of child protection, as well as in the disabled and mental health care system, could the Commission specify how much weight it attaches to these issues in its ongoing negotiations with the Romanian authorities?
First of all, in addition to a general evaluation of child protection and the situation of the disabled and mental healthcare system in Romania, we have organised a peer review on mental health in order to assess the situation on the ground.
Although reform in this sector is still very much in its early stage, from the point of view of the Commission we estimate that the country is now on the right track in this regard.
We have strongly advised the Romanian authorities to make mental health a priority area and devote sufficient resources for this purpose.
This is what the peer review will look at and this will be part of the progress report in May 2006. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, could you address the issue of caged beds in Romania?
In this context we have also studied the suspicion about the use of caged beds in Romania.
I can assure you that during the Commission’s 15 years of follow-up we have never had any suspicion proven about the use of caged beds in Romania.
The Commission will follow the issue up within the framework of our regular contacts with various non-governmental organisations. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I should like to thank the Commissioner and to say that we all agree that we need to help Romania improve the conditions and protection of children and to improve healthcare.
We have found that for Eastern and Central Europe – the so-called new Member States, as well as the future Member State of Romania – twinning has been one of the most effective arrangements for disseminating knowledge.
We have to study it more carefully to see what practical arrangements can be made. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, if you really have not seen the evidence of the caged beds in Romania, I refer you to the front page story of a recent edition of the London and to the well-documented cases published by the Mental Disability Advocacy Centre.
As I said, we have never had any proof about the use of caged beds in Romania but, if you have some concrete evidence in this regard, I am willing to study it and I will ask my civil servants to take another look at it and we can then raise the matter with Romania if need be. &#160;&#160; Questions which had not been answered for lack of time would receive written answers (see Annex).
If somebody sees the enormous amounts of energy that Europe has been investing in the reformulation of its migration policy, I am convinced that they would find the problem of child poverty in Europe incomprehensible.
Therefore, it is not a mere coincidence that the report on social protection and social inclusion tabled before you focuses mainly on child poverty, because while 15% of European citizens are at risk of poverty, this figure is 19% in the case of children, and based on 2004 data, in 12 of the 25 member states the risk of child poverty is at least 25% higher than in the adult population.
I could obviously mention many other problems presented in the report, but as time is short I shall only mention one more, namely the displacement of older work force from the labour market.
Although there is an anti-discrimination directive in place in this area, discrimination still exists, but it is more difficult to track.
And last, but not least, I would like to thank the Secretariat of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for their excellent cooperation, and to express my thanks for the amendment proposal of my colleagues.
I appreciate the backing expressed in the report for the Commission’s initiative aimed at modernising and making more effective the open method of coordination for the areas of social protection and social inclusion.
The question is one of how to contribute more through social policy to the aims of the Lisbon Strategy, while at the same time strengthening the coordination of these policies.
Contributing more through the Lisbon Strategy process of social coordination involves developing active functions of social protection and demonstrating added value on the basis of the jobs and growth created.
The new national bodies will first of all present a strategic approach for every Member State regarding the modernisation of their policy in specific areas.
The Commission has also adopted a communication that initiates a public consultation on possible targeted measures at a Union level relating to adjustments in minimum wages and the inclusion of persons excluded from the labour market.
The consultation also includes the European Parliament and other organisations, of course, but in view of the theme under discussion it will be extended to public bodies at all levels, as well as to organisations, interest groups and social partners.
It is true that the participation of Parliament in work within the context of open coordination remains limited by the fact that there is no overall statutory framework in place.
The report presents its aims from the perspective of an equal position for men and women, outlining the needs of women especially in the area of social inclusion.
Let us not forget how our attitudes to poverty in developed countries have changed compared to the past, in an environment where the display of wealth and prosperity has led to a lower living standard coming to be regarded as something diminishing.
This exclusion does not relate only to material factors but also to education, health or security in old age, and is passed on from generation to generation.
It is true that social differences have always existed and have determined children’s development over their entire lives.
I would draw your attention to the fact that this is not a matter merely of material effects, but also of inadequate social protection, above all in the case of children and young people, and this has both moral and personal safety consequences for the future of society, since social injustice leads to tension, which as we see all around us, can explode in the form of violence or can lead to a withdrawal from reality through drugs or escapist entertainment.
Charity is a gift and in modern societies that defend the dignity of man it should be a matter of extreme resort, which cannot replace a good social policy that corresponds to the needs of Europe in the 21st century. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the first joint report by the European Commission on social protection and social inclusion is already an old text which was written in January 2005 and which needs to be examined together both with the conclusions of the Presidency of the European Council and the interim report on the Lisbon Strategy.
The two rounds of the open method of coordination on social integration at the level of the 15 and, since 2004, the 25 Member States have demonstrated that the rationalisation of the open method of coordination needs to be safeguarded in social protection and in social integration.
From this point of view, the Bauer reports reminds us that measures need to be taken which aim to prevent early departure from education and training and help students who graduate with poor qualifications in particular to move into school and the job market.
It is a very strong means of combating poverty and social exclusion.
That we have close to 70&#160;million people living at risk in the European Union is a shameful statistic and is not acceptable.
Poverty naturally breeds poverty.
The Scandinavian countries are a good example of this.
These countries have economies that are without doubt within the top ten in the world, and at the same time have the most effective social protection systems.
Europe must consider that if we now have 38 non-working pensioners for every hundred workers, this may double in the coming decade unless a change in employment policy is implemented.
The legislation of several Member States unfortunately contains provisions that promote age discrimination in the labour market.
A part of the report I consider essential is the appeal to all Member States – especially the new ones – to review their solidary pension systems, taking into consideration men’s shorter life expectancy and the great wage differences between the sexes, which are reflected in the size of the pensions earned by widowed pensioners, and often push them below the poverty line.
I would like to thank Mrs Bauer for her expert work, and I hope that the principles set down in this document will soon be implemented in the legislative practice of the Member States. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Bauer for the work she has done on this excellent report, and the Commission for its initial document.
We know that there are links between poor nutrition, poor housing, a poor environment – the poor often live in the worst environments – and poor educational prospects, which then follow through people’s lives and indeed those of their children.
We need to look at that in the context of social cohesion overall, because it has implications for the gap between rich and poor.
Mr De Rossa mentioned the difficulties about education and employment.
The real cause of poverty is not having enough cash.
I agree about the importance of public services and the role that social security has to play within this.
Member States should be looking at whether their social security systems operate to allow people to go through training and to take up educational possibilities, or whether they in fact constrict them because these people have to be ready for work at any moment.
I would also echo the comments made about the open method of coordination and the role that the European Parliament should be playing in this, not least in reviewing the national action plans and their outcomes. &#160;&#160; . – Mention has already been made in this debate of the high levels of poverty and social exclusion, which affects over 70&#160;million people in the EU.
As the report says, in 14 of the 17 Member States for which figures are available, child poverty increased in the 1990s.
Accordingly, the necessary measures must be taken to promote social inclusion, as viewed from a multidisciplinary perspective.
We therefore advocate replacing the Stability and Growth Pact with a genuine development and progress pact, and the Lisbon Strategy with a proper economic and social cohesion strategy.
Public policies are crucial to reducing poverty and to guaranteeing human rights, hence the need for, on the one hand, a universal public social security policy that is marked by solidarity, and, on the other, for the privatisation of health systems to be rejected, as we have proposed.
The neoliberal policies at the root of the increased number of people at risk of falling into poverty must be reversed.
Globalisation and information and communication technologies are assessed as risks.
In my view, it is a society in which the rapid change arising from globalisation is not accompanied by the wide use of information and communication technologies that is under threat.
The wide use of information and communication technologies increases people’s educational and training opportunities, and also their opportunities to join the employment market, especially for the most socially vulnerable groups such as the disabled.
Welfare society and information society development policies ought to be coordinated.
Let us leave fears about the rapid spread of information technology to the dictators of North Korea and Belarus. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, it is regrettable that according to the latest statistics, the increase in the number of billionaires in the world has not been mirrored by an increase in the wealth of all citizens.
In Poland, for example, we have a paradoxical situation.
A former Socialist state is now providing less protection for its citizens than states that have always been capitalist.
This would enable all citizens to feel safe.
In addition, it would promote social inclusion by lowering the level of fear about survival. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that today’s debate on the subject of social protection and social inclusion is highly pertinent, since although there was a 3% decline in the level of relative poverty in the years 1995–2000, the level of 15% is undoubtedly alarming.
These phenomena are the result of structural changes that accompany the social and economic development of our society.
The fact that poverty often has an impact on children too is in my view extremely sad and alarming.
Of all the key political priorities for solving issues of poverty and social exclusion, I would emphasise education.
The issue is to ensure the right level of education, a smooth transition from educational institutions to the workplace and the integration of disadvantaged groups into the education system through the use of e-learning.
The new Member States in particular are not able to make sufficient use of the financial instrument for this area, which is the European Social Fund.
I therefore call on the new Member States, especially the Czech Republic, to do as much as they can to ease the bureaucratic burden on applicants in respect of the recently drafted programme documents for the period 2007–2013.
I would like to conclude by thanking Mrs Bauer for a fine report. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, pension policy, poverty reduction, and health and long-term care are key tasks for us and key issues for all citizens of the EU.
Parliament must therefore considerably increase its involvement in open coordination in all aspects of social protection and social inclusion.
The current procedure is totally unacceptable.
The Council has already discussed the Commission’s follow-up communication.
I am most obliged to him for this, but we do not want just a relaxed dialogue; what we really want is the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement laying down crystal-clear rules.
Furthermore, in future, the issues of the reconciliation of professional and family life should increasingly be dealt with, and particular attention paid to childcare, within the framework of the open method of coordination in the field of social protection. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, increasing globalisation leads to restructuring of both enterprises and the labour market.
Another consequence of globalisation is the emphasis on the international level, not just the local and national.
There is a growing tendency for large enterprises to force small and medium-sized ones off the market, with a significant impact on the livelihood of the local communities.
The nature of restructuring varies from region to region.
In the new Member States the labour market has been hard hit by the development of hypermarkets and supermarkets, especially those built in town centres and on large housing estates.
These large shopping centres have wrecked the livelihoods of small traders and service providers in the immediate area, many of whom have been forced to close down.
For every job created in a hypermarket, five to eight are lost in the surrounding area.
Help and support must be provided to these groups of people.
They should be offered the opportunity to find new jobs, new professions or new markets for their products. &#160;&#160; I believe that the most socially committed country is one that creates the conditions for high-quality jobs and ensures equal opportunities for its people.
Citizens need favourable external circumstances in order to do their work and be creative, as well as to satisfy their basic needs.
It is a different story, however, for at-risk groups such as the elderly or young people without working experience, the sick, disabled persons and single mothers or families with several children.
All these groups need our attention and help if they are to be socially protected and not excluded from society.
However, I cannot understand the Council’s decision, in the negotiations on the Financial Perspective, to reduce the funds earmarked for education and grants for young people, an area where relatively modest funds can be used to make a significant impact in education, the study of foreign languages, the development of international links and attitudes towards the European Union.
We are striving for these values in almost all of our documents.
While we continue in the European Union to adopt concrete measures that are specifically at odds with our words and our understanding, we cannot arrive more rapidly at the goals we have set.
Perhaps never before in human history time has passed by as quickly as it passes today, and there is nothing to indicate that this tempo will slow down.
For this reason we also need rapid and simple solutions in adapting to these changes, in order to achieve greater economic growth and better social protection for at-risk groups in the population. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, as a Social Democrat I believe that work is the only source of wealth, and yet labour is losing its position to machines – in other words, capital – as a factor in production.
Many pensioners in the old Member States enjoy a comfortable retirement, because the governments of these countries have legislated so that the workers are required to support them at a certain level, while many people who make do with a low wage when they are working in the benefit of society are in danger of falling below the poverty line once they reach retirement.
In all too many of the Member States, pension systems are basically pyramid systems.
I commend Mrs Bauer’s report, but pension problems cannot be solved with a single report.
Europe’s competitiveness and sustainability would benefit greatly if the old Member States were able to replicate that success.
I hope that our parliament will soon return to the topic of pension schemes. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, The real challenge for the European Union is to provide an opportunity for breaking out of the vicious circle of social exclusion.
It is unacceptable that 15% of European citizens, approximately 68 million people, live with the awareness of the risk of poverty, as described in the European Commission report released on 27&#160;January, 2005.
It is unacceptable that social exclusion affects the most vulnerable social groups, women and ethnic minorities.
The report states that in Hungary the percentage of those threatened by poverty is lower than the European Union average, that it is under 10%, similar to the figures in the Czech Republic, Sweden, Denmark and Slovenia.
If children are constantly hungry, they will begin to beg and even steal.
If children have no parents or are separated from them, then the street will be their home.
Such children will not enter the job market, as they can only do those things which are unsuitable for the job market.
I would like to suggest to you some ideas for our work in the future.
They are based on the obligation of all participants, Member States, European citizens, parliaments, social partners and interest groups as well as all the institutions and organs of the Community.
The Member States will implement the intra-state level reforms and the structural policies approved within the framework of the revised Lisbon Strategy.
The Union will continue to support reform efforts and will at the same time make use of all new instruments, assistance from the Structural Funds, respect for fundamental rights, support for social dialogue and the establishment of proven approaches. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The main part of my report, however, is dedicated to Parliament’s budget.
In a framework of budgetary constraint, we need to implement budgetary rigour in all ongoing activities, ensuring added value for taxpayers’ money.
Another key issue in the report relates to information policy, which addresses Parliament’s objective of bringing Europe and its institutions closer to its citizens.
Having said that, however, I still contend that in any information project particular attention should be given to the extent of participation and cooperation of political groups, the pluralism of opinion, the value of its contents and its cost structure.
In the final analysis, the level of success of any project will have to be measured in terms of its positive impact on EU citizens.
In my report I also addressed a number of additional priorities for 2007, relating mainly to buildings policy, enlargement, assistance to Members, a statute for Members’ assistants, and training.
It is unfortunate that this budgetary procedure starts in a context of uncertainty, due to the absence of a new interinstitutional agreement.
Mr President, first I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Grech, for his excellent proposal and the agreeable levels of cooperation we were able to achieve during discussion of the report.
The best example of the provision of information is visitor groups, and now we must really make haste to ensure that the EUR 5 million which was decided on last year is made use of as quickly as possible.
I would furthermore like to mention one amendment connected with Parliament’s day nursery.
The proposal that has just been made to stop using the Eastman Nursery is obviously very alarming, and I hope that agreement can be reached on adopting this amendment. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I too want to thank Mr Grech for his hard work and the excellent report he has produced on the guidelines for the 2007 budget procedure.
I really hope, as the report suggests, that the institutions can submit realistic requests based on budgetary rigour in the light of the current tight financial situation.
Like the rapporteur, I am convinced that in all the institutions we can work more cost-effectively, without compromising standards.
I should like to highlight some other aspects of the report that I believe are particularly important.
That means regular monitoring and clear and appropriate distribution of responsibilities.
A feature of next year’s budget is once again the establishment of the new activity-based accounting system in all the institutions.
Just as the rapporteur insists, it is important that all institutions should adopt the same budget nomenclature, in which case Members of Parliament and other interested parties would be better placed to monitor implementation of the budget.
It is important to obtain comparable data on the costs and results of different activities.
Romania and Bulgaria are very likely to join the EU next year.
This will be an indication of Parliament’s administrative discipline.
With regard to further discussion of the budget, we would hope that next year’s appropriations will be proposed right away in the preliminary draft budget.
Their value to the EU is disproportionate to the costs entailed in current integration.
We have also seen how both unions and employers have conducted successful campaigns outside the Economic and Social Committee.
What is more, it would be advantageous to obtain responses from organisations and parties that are not necessarily completely dependent on the EU budget.
I therefore believe that the appropriations in the 2007 budget should be substantially limited. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, in a parliamentary democracy, people’s representatives can, must, should and may set an example.
If so many of us are now forced to require the people in our countries to make sacrifices, this can only function, in the spirit of democracy, if we, too, make sacrifices.
In 2004, just 37 Members accounted for a ludicrous EUR&#160;234&#160;000.
Let us have an end to this.
I hope that 2007 will follow the trend of 2006 and that under no circumstances will we return to generalised spending. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank my colleague, Mr&#160;Grech, for the clarity and rigour of his report, which is both comprehensive and pragmatic.
The recent debates on the Constitutional Treaty and the outcome of the referendum in my country, which I personally deplored, highlight the fact that too many of our fellow citizens are unaware of the meaning and importance of the European Union for their everyday lives.
Fears and received ideas often take the place of information.
So let us increase the number of satisfied citizens, because if they are better informed, they are in a better position to spread the European idea among our nations.
Yet in order to do that, we must act on the Grech report and increase the number of visitors per MEP.
They share our lives as elected representatives and freely make their time and brainpower available to us, but wide disparities exist among them, and their social situation is often precarious.
As Mr&#160;Grech points out in his report, they truly deserve finally to be granted a genuine and meaningful statute. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I, for my part, should like to begin by lending my support to the work of our fellow Member, Mr&#160;Grech, and commending the very high quality of his report.
In the present context, and given the problems that we are encountering in the framework of the negotiations with the Council on the 2007-2013 financial perspective, this report is timely in taking stock of the financial resources that should be implemented in 2007 for the purposes of funding the main institutions of our Union: Parliament, the Council, the Court of Justice and so on.
I wish to lend my support this evening to the requests concerning both the principles of sound management and those designed for the purpose of achieving added value, but I should like us to extend these principles to all of the institutions and also, of course, specifically to the EU agencies.
In fact, it must be genuinely possible for EU citizens not only to understand the decisions that we make on their behalf, but also to embrace this magnificent blueprint for a society that we are building not only for, but also – I hope – with, them.
To this end, we must step up our communication efforts and allocate resources in line with the implementation of a communication policy that is modern, effective, educational and, in short, adapted to our times, not least through the use of tools such as Web TV In the same way, I feel that I must stress the importance of also making greater efforts to host visitors and the press at the various buildings in which the part-sessions are held.
I very often find myself receiving delegations in the Parliament building’s corridors. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as a British citizen I strongly oppose the budget settlement that Mr Tony Blair purports to suggest that he negotiated in December.
I therefore voted against acceptance of the budget when it came before this Parliament, but I suspect that my reasons were somewhat different to those of most of the other Members of the institution who also voted against it.
In my view, if the EU really is interested in raising the game, it could start by asking for less money, not more, and it should initiate a major study on the means necessary to return the powers it has taken from democratically elected governments.
Well, that is my wish list. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I would like to confirm that the Commission will include the vast majority of Parliament’s proposals in its new revised proposal.
I would also like to confirm that the objectives of Parliament and the Commission are more or less the same.
In light of these shared objectives regarding the simplified rules and the reduction of red tape, I am pleased to announce that we will, very soon after Parliament’s vote, put forward our new revised proposal.
I would like to give you a few examples of the many amendments we are very eager to include in our new proposal: an explicit reference to the principle of proportionality – this will help to define a lighter procedure for smaller projects; information for grant applicants and standardised application forms for the same policy areas; and reinforcing the division of procurement contracts into specialist and/or partial lots.
The fourth element that we are positively evaluating is the two-step procedure in the grant application process, which will avoid unnecessary costs in the initial phase.
The European Economic and Social Committee and the Court of Auditors delivered their opinions between October and December 2005.
The Council is about to complete its first reading.
Our common goal is to have new, simpler and more modern financial rules, better adapted to the new generation of spending programmes, hopefully applying from January 2007.
Parliament is using this initial rolling revision of the text – a text so important to the administration – as a means to eliminate fundamental problems.
Numerous organisations applying for grants, companies participating in supply and service tenders, and indeed those in the Commission and other institutions who apply the Financial Regulation, have contributed to our reform and to Parliament’s amendments.
Our most important amendments will be put to a roll-call vote tomorrow.
This could make procedures less protracted and – particularly in the case of small grants – less burdensome.
In the Member States, financial regulations are simple documents for administrations, because they have to be used daily.
This item, too, remains on Parliament’s agenda.
As co-rapporteur and draftsman of the opinion regarding the Financial Regulation, I would stress that the main purpose of the report was to make the Financial Regulation and its rules of implementation less bureaucratic, easier to understand, simpler and, most importantly, more user-friendly.
And no matter how well written they are, there is of course no set of rules that can entirely prevent them, yet they may facilitate the more or less successful management of budget funds and the more or less general confidence of the public in its legality and effectiveness.
Finally I would make so bold as to claim that this report is headed in the right direction, that the proposed solutions enable a kind of new, successful balance, and I look forward to the report being adopted tomorrow. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur on her splendid and bold work.
This report sends a clear and strong message to citizens that the European Parliament wants them to have easier access to EU funding.
That is good news for citizens, but it is also good news for NGOs and small businesses.
Our message is clear: if we truly want to reconnect to the people, we should make things simpler. &#160;&#160; . – Praise in this case is no mere formality, but an acknowledgement of the rapporteur’s extraordinarily coherent, committed work aimed at achieving two clear objectives, namely the simplification and proportionality of the scope of the rules.
We must ensure that, throughout the next financial perspective, we in Parliament continue to exercise the power of codecision, as we did in the past, so that we can accomplish four key tasks in the near future.
The Commission’s proposal aimed to revise the Regulation that had been in force for three years.
There is still a great deal of bureaucracy, however, and there are considerable controls and checks in place.
The dismissal of the Santer Commission brought about stricter rules and a review of the control mechanisms, something to which my group has always been committed.
As a result, we still have not got what we set out to achieve, namely a Commission in which officials are really responsible and can also shoulder that responsibility.
It is also just as important, though, for the small enterprises and non-profit organisations to start to benefit from a reduction in administrative costs.
Firstly, the European Commission believes that after three years’ operation of the Financial Regulation there is no need to change its structure or the fundamental principles and concepts it contains.
Secondly, the Commission does, however, propose a whole series of changes affecting fundamental budget principles and the validation of claims amongst other issues.
In addition, the proposal sets a five-year period for them to extinguish.
These provisions incorporate the changes required to adjust to the new Community directive adopted in 2004 concerning public procurement and grants.
The aim is to simplify provisions on controls and guarantees.
The changes are intended to make implementation of the Union’s budget easier and to facilitate access to budget funds by the beneficiaries.
I hope that, like last time, the Presidency-in-Office of the Council will be receptive to our proposals and not be a wary Presidency which wants to maintain the status quo, ignoring the fact that circumstances have changed and that the operating rules must be improved in order to improve budgetary execution.
The proposal of other political groups to authorise carry-over for all of the unused commitment appropriations is unrealistic and may affect the principle of annuality and, above all, it does not favour our position on the recycling of unspent funds, which is part of the negotiating strategy in the financial perspective.
Furthermore, Mr President, I believe that the strategy should clearly separate the vote on the legislative proposal from the final adoption when we have a definitive wording from the Council. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by paying tribute to the work of both the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Gräßle, and the draftsman, Mr&#160;Pahor, and by congratulating them on the quality of their report.
The challenge for us is to strike a balance between simplification and sound financial management.
The report will in fact make it possible to safeguard Parliament’s rights in the future, whether in terms of its power of control or of its right to information in its capacity as a branch of the budgetary authority.
Similarly, I should like to point out that the provisions concerning the funding of political groups or political parties are of the utmost importance.
I will say secondly that we must congratulate Mrs&#160;Gräßle on her good work and say that this Parliament is obliged to ensure that the money that the citizens give us is not wasted on administrative costs and that it arrives on time and effectively, and that is the intention of Mrs Gräßle’s report.
Thank you very much for this excellent report, Mrs&#160;Gräßle. &#160;&#160; The revision of the Community’s ‘financial bible’ affects not only the institutional framework of the European Union but also its citizens.
We must clearly define the tasks and joint responsibilities of the Member States regarding management of the Community’s financial resources.
In respect of structural funds, and in the interest of transparency, reliability, efficiency and the&#160;good reputation of the European Union in the eyes of its citizens, we must put in place transparent and expeditious administrative procedures with clearly defined responsibilities for the individual actors.
I believe that by approving this document we will contribute to the better functioning of the financial system in the European Union and thus make the activities of the EU easier for its citizens to comprehend. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to make three points.
Secondly, if there is any point to this work, then surely it is that it represents an attempt to improve the efficiency of the administration of our programmes and our funds.
The significance of this to future discharge procedures in this House is that we shall have to change our methods and start to move away from a know-it-all attitude towards the application of more efficient standards.
Thirdly, as a Member coming from a small Alpine region, I expect the Commission – including in the context of the oft-heralded transparency initiatives – to provide information on the average size of the companies participating in the European programmes, the average size of the small or medium-sized enterprises benefiting from European funds, for example, and the length of time, in the final reckoning, for which an enterprise has to provide pre-financing in order to receive European funds.
MEPs of the new Member States have participated in the parliamentary preparations for the Financial Regulation with great joy and enthusiasm, not only because they have an enthusiastic commitment to parliamentary work, but also because they are convinced that we serve a better, simpler and more effective Europe.
This is because our experience of almost two years has shown us that the financial regulation of the European Union is often over-bureaucratised and anti-productive.
In awareness of this, all Members of Parliament involved in this process have cooperated with one another, showing a good example; the two committees reinforced their cooperation and appointed two excellent rapporteurs, and then, starting from the organisation of the public hearing to the voting, they did everything they could to achieve a result.
The vote will be tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Seán Ó Neachtain, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on more environmentally friendly fishing methods (2004/2199(INI)) (A6-0019/2006). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I will start my presentation on promoting more environmentally friendly fishing methods by reminding Parliament that in recent times fishermen collectively have been seriously under attack.
We must never forget that the great majority of men and women involved in the sector are honest, dedicated and extremely hard-working people.
Furthermore, no meaningful change can be achieved without the active involvement and participation of those honest fishermen and women.
In recent years the key challenge to maintaining sustainable fisheries has, to a large extent, developed into an overly simplistic and polarising debate on whether or not we should have more or less fishing.
The objective of maintaining sustainability must, most centrally, embrace the question of how we fish in the future so that we harvest our marine resources in the most environmentally favourable way.
The introduction of fishing practices that reduce adverse impacts on our ecosystems is a priority.
To achieve that we must first understand the effects of fishing practices on the marine environment and promote fishing activities that are environmentally sustainable.
I am particularly pleased that the last Irish Presidency proposed the initiative of a major EU programme to make fishing activity more environmentally friendly in order to help to build European fish stocks.
The urgency is clearly illustrated by one extraordinary statistic: 20 million tonnes of fish are being discarded worldwide every year, equivalent to about one quarter of total world catches.
The proposed environmental programme includes a review of all existing technical conservation measures within the next two years, to reduce ecosystem and environmental damage.
I started my presentation in defence of fishermen.
I conclude my presentation by underlining that it is our fishermen and women who will have a central role in deciding the future of the European fishing industry.
Commissioner, if you want this programme to work then you must ensure that there are proposals for financial and other incentives, including additional quota entitlements to encourage fishermen to move towards more selective and more environmentally friendly fishing gear.
The Commission attaches great importance to the development of more environmentally friendly fishing methods.
I have noted your interest in combating ghost fishing.
The reduction of discards will be a major objective of the new technical measures for the Atlantic and the North Sea.
The Commission is encouraging the industry to engage in pilot programmes by making use of the RACs for this purpose.
Further pilot projects, in full cooperation with the industry, will allow us to test on a case-by-case basis possible measures to reduce discards effectively.
The Commission is also encouraging the development of efforts in fisheries management in the Kattegat in cooperation with Denmark, Sweden and Germany.
This kind of management, among other objectives, is aimed at reducing or eliminating discards.
This could result in an international plan of action on bycatch reduction and/or technical guidelines elaborated by the FAO.
Most of the measures to promote environmentally friendly fishing methods will be included in the new technical measures for the Atlantic and the North Sea.
As you know, technical measures are considered as a complement to effort limitations, TACs and quotas, long-term management and recovery plans, and as part of the overall package of management measures.
I have noted your request to simplify the regulatory system and can inform you that these new technical measures will be a fundamental test case in the simplification programme led by the Commission.
They are one of the principal points of the action plan on simplification.
The Commission agrees with taking into account initiatives of RACs so as to improve fisheries management and can accept that point on condition that the positive effects of such measures are confirmed by scientific assessment.
First of all, there is the need for the Commission to take a more wide-ranging view of measures to protect the marine environment and rebuild depleted fish stocks, in particular by studying factors other than over-fishing that may cause fish stocks to be depleted, such as pollution and global warming.
If that was so, the dramatic reduction in the number of fishing vessels that are now fishing for cod in the North Sea – numbers have collapsed by 60% through decommissioning in the last five years – would have led to a remarkable recovery in cod stocks, but that has not been the case.
One million tons are discarded in Europe every year.
Commissioner, you said that two pilot projects were already under way.
Our group is satisfied with the report and we also support the two amendments tabled.
Our group stresses the need for fishermen to be encouraged to apply sustainable methods.
Illegal fishing renders the situation impossible for all parties.
Without effective control measures, this situation will irrevocably lead to a tragedy of common sense.
Certification and quality marks are therefore important.
Only with responsible politicians and active government, innovative fishermen and involved consumers can both the fishing industry and the fish look forward to a sustainable future. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the ALDE Group congratulates Mr Ó Neachtain on his report.
We particularly endorse the references to biodiversity and to the need for action in relation both to ghost fishing and discards, as well as the call for the Commission to continue to promote the adoption of an FAO International Plan of Action on bycatch reduction.
On ghost fishing, we stressed the importance of monitoring the existing transitional measure, to ensure that it is not simply leading to displacement of effort, and the importance of the full involvement of the European Parliament in discussions relating to long-term controls.
We entirely agree with the report’s emphasis on the role that regional advisory councils can play in the promotion of environmentally friendly fishing methods and with the necessity of affording them increased technical and financial support.
Whilst we sympathise with the approach expressed in Amendment 1, particularly on decentralisation and co-management, we have difficulties with some of the wording and feel that the points are effectively addressed in paragraph 19.
I know of no one with any interest whatsoever in fisheries who would not support the principle of environmentally friendly fishing methods: the people with most to gain, after all, from protecting the marine environment and ensuring a balance between conservation and harvesting of fish stocks are the fishermen themselves.
That being said, we feel that fisheries management policies should not be used to penalise this strategically valuable activity, which is of vital economic and social importance.
Consequently, we have retabled an amendment calling on the Commission to propose social and economic compensation measures aimed at providing Community funding for plans to rebuild depleted fish stocks.
Similarly, as we believe that fishermen and their representative associations should be involved in determining measures to protect the marine environment and rebuild fish stocks, we have retabled an amendment stating that decentralisation and co-management are two principles that are fundamental both in guaranteeing the involvement of fishermen and their representative associations in measures to protect the marine environment and rebuild fish stocks, but also in guaranteeing the effectiveness of such measures, bearing in mind that it is the fishermen and their associations, who have first-hand knowledge of the state of resources and who are most concerned to ensure their preservation, who will be applying such measures. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, there is no doubt that the common fisheries policy and the traditional quota system have resulted in depleted fish stocks.
I believe that we must increase mesh size to prevent unnecessary discarding of juvenile fish.
The technical conservation measures have a more important role than ever in the future of the sector.
It is crucial that we adopt methods to improve selectivity and, therefore, the possibility of catching fish at the right size, taking account of biology and the life cycle of each individual species.
It is also necessary to become aware of the specific characteristics of fishing practices in the various Member States.
It is accordingly necessary to adopt a decentralised approach taking account of the specific characteristics of fishing areas and different species.
I should like to finish by saying that the development of scientific research and technology sharing at Community level are key factors if we are to adopt more environmentally-friendly fishing rules.
In this context, I feel that we need to pay close attention to the channelling of funds that will be available as part of the new Community framework for supporting research. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add my warm congratulations to Mr Ó Neachtain.
In the autonomous region of the Azores, considerable progress has been made in recent years, not least the prohibition of bottom gillnets and bottom trawls.
I do feel, however, that much remains to be done, in the autonomous region of the Azores and in all Community waters, as regards these more environmentally-friendly methods.
Secondly, we must prioritise the problem of discards, as the rapporteur has done.
Lastly, I should therefore like to ask the Commission to take on board the need to implement these systems at the earliest opportunity and to ensure their effective use. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Borg, ladies and gentlemen, promoting environmentally friendly fishing methods demonstrates that the European Union has become fully aware of the difficulties being experienced by this sector and the need for structural action for responsible exploitation of aquatic resources.
Reducing fishing pressure, because fish stocks are in a bad condition, optimising catches by avoiding huge quantities of fish being thrown into the sea because they are immature and reducing the impact on particularly sensitive habitats: these are the main objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy, which we can endorse.
Adopting measures designed to protect and conserve living aquatic resources, to ensure that they are used in a sustainable way, to identify compensation measures for lost income and to support the development of research and innovation are priority commitments set out in the report under consideration.
The search for environmentally friendly methods of fishing is as long as the history of fishing itself.
There followed provisions on the permitted size of fish caught and the principles of selective fishing gear.
It is therefore vital to recommend ongoing monitoring of the population of both groups and the relationship between them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur and to add that, despite the actions taken by the European Union, fish stocks are under constant threat and that this is due to three very important factors: firstly intensive rates of fishing, secondly fishing methods and thirdly maritime pollution.
The Committee on Fisheries adopted a report in January, the purpose of which is to promote environmentally-friendly fishing methods by proposing various technical measures, such as the definition of fishing areas, fishing periods and fishing tools.
Secondly, fishing organisations must have a right of participation, opinion and codecision in the overall procedure.
Thirdly, more environmentally-friendly fishing methods imply less and more selective fishing, new equipment and loss of income.
The European Union must find ways of ensuring that measures to protect the seas are applied not only by the Member States, but also by third countries.
The cod recovery plan has not achieved the objective.
Fishermen in my region of Northern Ireland have faced closure in the Irish Sea for a long number of years and we have not seen any concrete evidence that this has been a success.
Regarding the point made concerning pilot projects on discards, there are indeed proposed projects in the North Sea aiming at increasing selectivity by new technical measures.
Even with regard to Norway, where fisheries are much less mixed and less complex, it has not been without problems.
The problem exists independently of the problem of depleted stocks, and we need to address it if we want to regain sustainable fisheries in the long-term interests of the fishermen themselves.
In fact this is what we are trying to do by virtue of the proposed new technical measures and the communication we are preparing on maximum sustainable yields.
With regard to the point raised by Mrs Corbey, we are looking at the question of certification and labelling regarding sustainable fisheries by means of the eco-labelling proposal, which we hope to present during the course of this year.
However, I would not agree with his point regarding the abandonment of the common fisheries policy, which I consider to be a cornerstone and the very basis of sustainable fisheries in the European Union.
With regard to the point raised by Mr Guerreiro, let me reiterate that the issue of compensation for socio-economic measures is being dealt with in the context of discussions on the European Fisheries Fund, which I hope will be adopted at the April Council.
I agree with the point made by Mr Braghetto, Mr&#160;Gklavakis and Mr Nicholson on involving the fisheries sector – the various stakeholders and the industry – in the management of fisheries and in the various measures needed to attain and maintain sustainable fisheries.
I would also like to thank Mrs Attwooll, Mrs Sinnott, Mr&#160;Chmielewski and Mr Casaca for their views and for their very valid comments and remarks. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will be tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
