However, despite the improvements observed, their fishing fleets consist for the most part of ageing vessels which, on average, are more than 30 or 40 years old, particularly the small-scale fleets.
The European Parliament's Committee on Fisheries only proposes extending public aid for the renewal of fleets in the outermost regions until 2009 and allowing these vessels to be registered until 2011.
In fact, these are proposals previously adopted by the European Parliament itself which reiterated, in 2005, the need for future support for the renewal and modernisation of the fishing fleets, in the interests of the profitability and competitiveness of the sector in these regions.
Thus I am willing to accept Amendments 2 and 7.
This is why the Commission, on the basis of what I said before, is not ready to accept Amendments 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10 and 11.
This extension agreed in the Committee on Fisheries means that fishing vessels having benefited from state aid can, under the respective derogation, enter the fishing fleet of these regions until 2011 without the entry of new capacity having to be offset by the exit of equivalent capacity.
I must thank all our colleagues from the PPE-DE Group who agreed on this position with us and also the European Commission for their efforts in reaching this conclusion.
All we now have to do is hope that the Council will also be sensitive to what we have decided and that it will understand the need to allow the outermost regions longer to meet this requirement. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, should authorisation for state aid to be granted for the renewal and modernisation of fishing fleets in the outermost regions be given only until the end of 2009 or should it continue indefinitely?
The particular nature of the fishing industry in these regions justifies this aid being granted beyond 2009, without the marine environment being harmed in any way.
Member of the Commission. - Thank you very much for your comments.
This possibility must therefore result in specific action.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) I am delighted that the European Parliament has authorised the construction of fishing vessels until 31 December 2011, for fleets registered in the outermost regions and in receipt of State aid for renewal.
