CAP: common rules for direct support schemes and certain support schemes for farmers and support for rural development (debate) The next item is the report by Jan Mulder, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003 establishing common rules for direct support schemes under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers and Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) - C6-0283/2007 -.
Of course, we have the possibility and the chance to continue this work in our health check, where we will mainly focus on the scope of the application of the cross-compliance system.
I think Mr Mulder's main concerns have been taken on board, and this is the case, in particular, for the improved flexibility that Member States will have to adapt the control system to their administrative organisation.
The big question in all this is: what form should the checks take?
The Groundwater Directive says that the permitted level of nitrates in groundwater is 50 mg per litre (if you exceed that, you are liable to penalties); the Nitrates Directive says 1.7 livestock units per hectare.
on behalf of the PSE group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I first wish to thank and congratulate Mr Mulder for his work, and also for his methodology and the various consultations he carried out.
I wish to emphasise that I do not agree at all with the compensation logic that since European farmers are subject to strict production conditions (animal welfare, environmental concerns, veterinary practices) they should receive agricultural aid.
I am taking part in the debate today as the permanent rapporteur on the Structural Funds for the Committee on Budgets in order to stress - like many of my colleagues - how important it is to reduce excess bureaucracy in managing these funds.
This broad social role of payments should constantly be emphasised.
No, they are not farmers' funds: they are granted to farmers.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, theoretically the common agricultural policy was meant to guarantee food safety, stability for EU production and prices, and also a decent income for all farmers.
This report enthusiastically trumpets the view that cross-compliance is an important instrument in justifying public support for farmers.
In my constituency of Northern Ireland, we have had a particular problem with duplicate fields, arising from our conacre system.
I shall stop there but, Commissioner, I am aware that ten days ago you visited Brescia, in my own province, and - even if this is not quite germane to the current debate - you were able to taste the wines and typical products of Brescia: I believe that not adding sugar to wine is a means of striking the right quality balance and fairly rewarding producers. (GA) Madam President, guaranteed EU support to farmers should be provided under the common agricultural policy for the years 2007 to 2013.
Finally, in the case of Bulgaria and Romania, as new Member States, I consider the extension of the optional nature of articles 3, 4, 6, 7 and 9 until 2013 to be judicious, as far as the provisions of these articles refer to statutory requirements in matters of administration. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, all types of agricultural activity and production should comply with the requirements concerning environmental protection, safety, quality and animal welfare.
If the cross-compliance system is to be properly implemented in the new Member States whilst also responding to society's expectations, it will have to be introduced in stages.
The full range of requirements should only come into force in those countries in 2013, when they begin to receive full direct payments.
Commissioner, the requirements and standards imposed on our farmers are stricter than in third countries.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I wish to thank the Members very much for all their contributions to this debate.
That was why, when we opened this debate on cross-compliance, we commissioned from Rambøll Management a report on simplifying the CAP that was specifically linked to cross-compliance.
I think we should use this study for further discussions, within the health check, on what we can do to simplify the cross-compliance system without watering down the ideas underlying it.
This is a move in the right direction, but we should not allow it to obscure the serious situation concerning the distribution of resources between the old and the new Member States.
