Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 24 October 2002.
On 31 October 2002, a violent earthquake hit the region of Molise in Italy which resulted in the destruction of some villages and claimed the lives of a number of people.
In particular the small town of San Giuliano di Puglia was destroyed and a school collapsed killing 29 people, 26 of whom were children.
On behalf of the European Parliament I have expressed our sympathy and condolences to the Mayor of San Giuliano di Puglia, to the President of the region of Molise and to the families of the victims.
The initial reports suggest that as many as 17 people have died in this tragic accident.
Twelve people lost their lives in this tragic accident.
I would like to inform you that on my own behalf and in the name of the European Parliament, I have expressed to the Luxembourg and French authorities our solidarity with and deepest sympathy for the families of all those involved in these tragic accidents.
I would also like to inform the House that I have written a letter to the President of the Duma expressing our condemnation of the act of terrorism in the Doubrovka Theatre in Moscow where over 700 people were held hostage.
Mr President, I have just returned from a trip to the Mexican State of Jalisco, where I was an eyewitness to the devastating effects of a hurricane, particularly in Puerto Vallarta.
Mr President, I would be grateful if you could contact the Mexican authorities, the President of the Republic, who was here in our Parliament in May, and the Governor of the State of Jalisco, on behalf of this House, to express our solidarity with them in the face of these events.
Pursuant to Rule 111a I have received a request from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance for the inclusion on the agenda of an extraordinary debate on the seizure of hostages in Moscow and its tragic ending, and on the war in Chechnya.
However, our group does see the need for a thorough and somewhat more systematically-prepared debate to be held during the second November part-session, when we will be discussing relations between Europe and Russia.
There is obviously, though, no objection at all to the dreadful events in Moscow being specifically mentioned in items 22 and 23 of the resolution on the results of the European Council and to the topic also being raised during the debate with Mr Solana.
I call upon the Presidency to express strong condemnation of a criminal action which goes against the most sacred values of our European civilisation, and not just in symbolic terms.
This package consists of a communication, a proposal for a directive defining the general principles and obligations in relation to the safety of nuclear installations in the European Union and a proposal for a directive on the management of radioactive waste.
The package is supplemented by a draft Council decision authorising the Commission to negotiate an agreement between Euratom and the Russian Federation on the trade in nuclear material.
Ladies and gentlemen, the broad debate on the Green Paper on the security of the energy supply has highlighted the problem of the security of supply in Europe and the role played by nuclear energy in relation to it and our environmental commitments with regard to greenhouse emissions within the framework of the Kyoto agreements and Protocol.
Furthermore, nuclear energy is currently faced with two challenges, two problems mentioned during this debate: the safety of installations and the treatment of nuclear waste.
Despite the fact that the Euratom Treaty provides for important measures guaranteeing a high level of safety, above all with regard to non-proliferation, that is, the appropriate use of fissile material and radioactive material, the current situation is not as ideal as we would like.
Secondly, it must be said that, in the negotiations with the candidate countries, we are demanding that the candidate countries comply with certain obligations and behave in a certain way, in the field of nuclear safety, which cannot be compared with anything in the current countries of the Union.
We are therefore faced with a situation in which there are significant disparities within Europe.
But furthermore, as I pointed out, in view of enlargement and the concerns of the European citizens, we must act quickly and decisively.
We are creating - and there is no other way of putting it - a situation of asymmetry between the candidate countries and the Member States of the Union.
The first relates to increasing safety in nuclear power stations and the issue of their dismantling.
Firstly, it proposes common rules for nuclear safety; secondly, a Community system for controlling the application of these common rules and thirdly, it guarantees the existence and availability of the funds necessary for the dismantling of nuclear installations.
The common rules are based simply on the rules of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the headquarters of which is in Vienna, but our proposal provides for something completely innovative.
That is that these rules, which within the framework of the Atomic Energy Agency are simply recommendations, thanks to the proposal for a directive, when they come to be adopted - as I hope they will - will become Community rules, and will therefore be binding on all the countries of the Union, with the legal force that Community law always has.
But furthermore, they are able to evolve and take up the results of the negotiations held over recent years with the candidate countries, negotiations which have allowed these common rules to be developed, which must be complied with, not only by the candidate countries, but also, in the Commission's opinion, by all the countries of the European Union without exception.
The control of installations will still be a task for the national competent authorities of each and every Member State of the Union.
But, furthermore, the third element of this proposal for a directive is the definition of Community rules for the creation, management and use of funds for dismantling nuclear power stations, with the aim of guaranteeing that the funds are sufficient and available.
We therefore propose a series of elements, but essentially the externalisation of these funds or an equivalent means of guaranteeing their availability to prevent them from, for example, in the event of bankruptcy, being included in the bankrupt assets and therefore not being available for their objective of dismantling the installations when the time comes.
The second directive, ladies and gentlemen, will contribute to the creation of new habits in the management of irradiated fuel and radioactive waste in the Member States of the Union.
We are not just talking about highly radioactive waste, about waste from reactors, from nuclear power stations or from reactors used in research, but also about radioactive waste from other types of application such as medical or industrial applications, low intensity waste.
Firstly, we propose a timetable with limit dates so that all the countries of the Union will have appropriate installations prepared and available for the underground storage of high activity waste, because that is currently the safest technology for the storage of that waste.
In this regard I would like to congratulate, for example, Finland on having already taken decisions with specific and very immediate dates and timetables, which seems to me to be extremely important.
We are establishing the possibility that the underground storage of this radioactive waste can be carried out in a manner which involves cooperation between different Member States of the Union.
Secondly, we believe that this solution, while it is the most suitable today, cannot be considered sufficiently satisfactory and, in this regard, we propose that it is necessary to continue research into the treatment of radioactive waste in order to reduce or possibly even eliminate the existence of this waste.
The final proposal, Mr President, is a draft Council decision allowing the Commission to negotiate an agreement with Russia relating to the trade in nuclear material.
Furthermore, this may open up the possibility for us - and let us hope this is the case - to be able to demand and promote the speedy closure of the oldest nuclear reactors in Russia, some of which may clearly at some point cause problems and which are very close to us.
We must increase transparency so that the citizens know that, within the European Union, there are a series of rules and levels of security that are guaranteed.
And we must confront a thorny problem, the problem of waste, above all high activity waste, but also other waste originating from medical or industrial applications.
We must also try to make progress on resolving the issues, difficulties and differences we have with Russia, but which also affect the future Member States of the Union.
I would like to make two points.
Thank you, Mr President.
With regard to radioactive waste, I would like to mention a specifically Danish problem.
In other words, what we are doing is converting into Community law - or making a proposal that they become Community law - the rules and standards which, in the negotiations, it has been agreed to require of the candidate countries.
In this regard, I would like to point out that in 1999 the Council gave its opinion on the need to establish maximum requirements and guarantees in relation to nuclear installations within the European Union.
In other words, that there are national annual reports by the States to the Commission and the Commission, using these reports and so-called 'peer reviews', controls between equals, produces a report every two years to Parliament and the Council on the development and safety of nuclear installations, not only of nuclear power stations, in the European Union.
And that rule will remain as a basic principle, which does not mean that if two or three countries voluntarily reach an agreement to share installations or storage facilities, they cannot do so.
We are opening up the possibility - thinking specifically of certain European Union countries, small in size, which have very significant geological difficulties and therefore difficulties in creating the necessary infrastructures on their territory - that they may possibly be able to seek agreements with a third country.
And if they do not reach them the waste will have to remain in their own countries, that is clear.
What we are proposing is that the different countries can reach agreements amongst themselves on joint storage, but always on the basis of voluntary agreements.
The situation, very briefly, ladies and gentlemen, is that at the moment Russia is supplying nineteen power stations in candidate countries with fissile material, which involves activity in a series of Russian industrial installations, revenue and technological and industrial development relating to this activity.
That is the situation of the candidate countries.
Furthermore, with regard to the situation of the current fifteen Member States, we have a limit, in order to guarantee security of supply, on the volume of imports originating from a single country.
But if 19 reactors from the candidate countries are incorporated, we will clearly exceed that limit.
With regard to funding, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has today approved an increase in the margin for Euratom loans.
The majority of appropriations have already been used and even paid back by the borrowers of the loans.
But what is required, according to the rules of the Euratom loans, is to open new facilities, to increase the margin so that funds may be available for the dismantling of power stations, in Lithuania or Slovenia for example, or for improving safety in those power stations.
In any event, I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that here and in the Commission I have said repeatedly that the European Union must become more aware and take decisions in relation to the cost of dismantling certain nuclear power stations in the countries of the East, in certain countries which are going to be members of the European Union.
This is a very complicated problem.
This is something that I have pointed out, that worries me enormously and that we will have to confront.
With regard to Denmark, this is a country which does have difficulties, but Lithuania, for example, also has a very serious problem owing to its size, its geological make-up and its situation.
Whether we like it or not, nuclear energy provides a solution for both problems.
This debate cannot therefore ignore public opinion.
We also welcome these two Commission initiatives and I would like to ask the Commissioner a question: how have these proposals and initiatives been received by the candidate countries?
Mr President, it is rather difficult, on a day of national tragedy for Luxembourg - after 17 people died in an air accident - to move onto more mundane issues.
However, I should like to make one comment and raise one question.
You are promising future directives and perhaps you could tell me when these future directives will materialise.
Another weak point in your proposals is that you are basing your comments on Article 31.
However, Article 31 relates to radiation protection.
The Article 31 radiation protection working group is meeting today in Luxembourg.
This view is also shared by Francis Jacob, the counsel for the prosecution in a case currently before the European Court of Justice, between the Council and the European Commission.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, whether one tends to be favourably disposed towards atomic energy, as you do, or to take a critical view of it, as I do, the proposals that have been presented today are in any case very, very important and an important step on which I should also like to congratulate you.
How have the candidate countries received this proposal?
We do not yet know what the causes of these accidents are, but in any event what we are trying to do is to prevent as far as possible any similar event from happening, using all systems, both management and technological systems.
We are all dismayed and we all share in the pain of the families of the victims.
But the honourable Member knows that all of this is in the texts of WENRA (the Western European Nuclear Regulators Association), which brings together all the safety bodies of the different countries of the Union, precisely so that these standards can be required of the candidate countries.
And to this we should add the recommendations of the International Atomic Energy Agency, which, I will insist, are going to become Community law and will therefore be enforceable within the Union.
Legal basis: Article 31.
Precisely in order to prevent ionisation and radioactive contamination.
We have in fact held a working meeting with Mr Giscard d'Estaing, but we have not raised the issue of the review of the Euratom Treaty.
I believe that by holding an in-depth debate every two years, which is well-prepared and well-executed, in the Council and in Parliament, we will contribute to providing the citizens with transparent information via yourselves and via the debates held here.
With regard to the timetable, today, at the meeting of the Security Committee, the proposal has been presented to the group of experts and the intention is that in two months time the report will have been produced.
As soon as this happens, I hope that the Commission will approve these proposals and we will send them to the ESC, to Parliament and to the Council for their final approval.
We must, however, keep a cool head.
Energy issues are decided nationally - and that is the way it should be - and the role of national regulators will also be vitally important in the future.
Commissioner, my first point relates to the nuclear industry.
You know that, for the time being, no solution to the problem of waste management has been found, that there are currently no techniques which will enable us to reduce the radioactivity of radioactive nuclear waste.
And yet, in 1974, when France launched its major nuclear energy project, anyone who would listen was told that, in thirty years' time, these waste problems would be resolved.
Ultimately, you are trying to suggest that, with these decisions, you are going to make nuclear energy in Europe safe.
Lastly, Commissioner, how do you justify the fact that further financial assistance is being given to the nuclear industry - when, for example, the nuclear industry has already cost the average French citizen a great deal of money - and when no solution to the problem of waste management has yet been found, and when we know how difficult it is to find even limited resources to spend on renewable energies?
Mr President, there will surely be great public interest in the topics of today's debate, which give us the chance to put an end to a certain schizophrenia by which, in the negotiations to date, we have been demanding more of the candidate countries than we do of our own Member States.
I would therefore like to congratulate the Commission on doing as the Vice-President has suggested, and adduce another weighty argument in favour of Community-wide standards.
I would like to say that, in making this proposal, what I am doing above all is following up a decision of this Parliament, and I am delighted, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to be in agreement with Parliament and to be able to comply with an almost unanimous request by this House.
But there are objective and unquestionable facts.
We will increase the guarantees that the problem of nuclear waste will have a solution, at least in relation to its appropriate storage, with maximum time periods.
We will increase the guarantees that the funds necessary for the dismantling of the current more or less contaminated installations will exist and will be available when needed.
I have presented various proposals on energy efficiency, in particular one on buildings which is very ambitious.
But that does not mean that it is not necessary to make improvements in the safety of nuclear installations - not only of power stations, but also of university, research and all types of installation - throughout the European Union and improvements in relation to information and the safety of waste management in the European Union in all respects.
Third question: Le Monde.
This morning this package on nuclear safety was approved and now I am presenting it to you.
With regard to the problem of unfair competition within the internal electricity market, Article 11 and the corresponding Annex, which clearly establish that the funds for dismantling can only be used expressly for the purposes laid down, that is, when the time comes, for the dismantling of the relevant energy installations, something which is unfortunately not the case today in several countries of the Union, but rather these funds enter into the general assets of the companies and can therefore be used for any operational purpose. (Applause) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the outcome of the European Council of 24 and 25 October 2002 in Brussels.
Before the summit meeting in Copenhagen he will again meet with the Conference of Presidents.
Exceptionally, at our part-session in Strasbourg on 19 November 2002 he will contribute to our debate on enlargement in the presence of observer MPs from accession states.
I wish to express my personal gratitude to him on behalf of the European Parliament.
Mr President, first of all I would like to express my thanks for the positive reception given to me, and I would also like to take this opportunity to express my great appreciation of the close and fruitful cooperation between the European Parliament and the Danish Presidency.
The European Parliament and the Presidency have a joint project.
It is a challenge and an opportunity which extends beyond our own time.
For better or for worse, enlargement is rooted in our common history and will be of crucial importance for the lives and opportunities of our descendants.
Enlargement of the European Union marks the end of the European tragedy of the twentieth century and is the gateway to a common future in which our people are able to live in freedom, peace and prosperity.
These values were drowned out by the thunder of guns in August 1914 and trampled to death in the trenches of the World War.
Enlargement of the EU marks the beginning of a new epoch in European history.
Enlargement is the key to the future of Europe.
In the light of this, I would like to thank the European Parliament for its enduring and unqualified support for the enlargement project.
This support was most recently expressed during the negotiations at the plenary session on 23 October and was expressed in strong terms by the President of the European Parliament to the European Council at the Brussels Summit.
On behalf of the Presidency, I would like to express my thanks for this clear and strong message from Parliament.
It is also in view of this that I am pleased to be able to report to you all here today that at the Brussels Summit the European Council confirmed the Member States' full support of enlargement.
We still have a huge task ahead of us and limited time available.
We are negotiating with 27 countries in total and we have 37 days in which to achieve a result - nothing can be taken for granted.
The Presidency had three objectives for the Brussels Summit: Firstly, we wanted to bring about agreement as to the basis for the final enlargement negotiations with the candidate countries.
In other words, decisions on the choice of countries, decisions on the outstanding financial issues and decisions on the final remaining institutional issues.
Secondly, we wanted to agree a common EU policy on the issue of transit between Kaliningrad and Russia, to provide a clear basis for negotiations ahead of the EU-Russia Summit on 11 November.
Finally, and thirdly, the Presidency attached great importance to the Brussels Summit taking place in accordance with the decisions made at the Seville Summit.
It was a brief Council lasting just over 24 hours with a concentrated agenda which was thoroughly prepared, an agenda which was devised with the greatest possible degree of openness.
I personally attached great importance to the Brussels Summit being as focused and results-oriented as possible, and I am very pleased with the result.
With regard to Kaliningrad, too, the Presidency achieved its aims in Brussels.
We want to find a solution that takes into account Russia's problems, but at the same time respects the sovereignty of Lithuania and the rules of the Schengen cooperation.
Obviously, enlargement was the main topic in Brussels.
For the Presidency, it was crucial to get the frameworks in place for further negotiations with the candidate countries.
The European Council approved the Commission's recommendations on the choice of countries.
Where Bulgaria and Romania are concerned, we decided to support these two countries in their efforts to achieve their aim of accession in 2007.
The Copenhagen Summit will make practical decisions on how we strengthen their preparations for accession.
The European Council is pleased with the progress that Turkey has made towards meeting the political Copenhagen criterion. (Applause) We call upon Turkey to continue its process of reform - not least in the form of actual implementation of the reforms adopted.
In connection with the choice of countries, we discussed issues of monitoring and safeguard clauses.
The European Council also made decisions on the final outstanding institutional issues, concerning the necessary adjustments in the light of the transition from 15 to hopefully 25 Member States.
The Heads of State and Government accepted the compromise already achieved by the Presidency at the meeting of Foreign Ministers on 22 October.
The most difficult issue on the agenda of the Brussels Summit was the outstanding financial issues.
The phasing in will take place within a framework of financial stability.
A promise is being made regarding total annual expenditure on common organisations of the market and direct subsidies in an EU with 25 Member States.
This expenditure must not exceed the level for 2006 plus 1% per year, which means that if inflation exceeds 1% there will be a real fall in agricultural expenditure.
We also reached agreement on the total level of funding for structural fund initiatives in the new Member States.
The figure is EUR 23 000 million in the period 2004 to 2006, which is slightly lower than the Commission's proposal of just over EUR 25 000 million.
The Brussels Summit took us a crucial step closer to Copenhagen, while at the same time marking the final stop before the Copenhagen Summit.
The European Council's decisions in Brussels have created a basis for further negotiations.
It is clear, however, that if we are to achieve a result on time great efforts are needed, along with a willingness to compromise on the part of everyone involved, both Member States and candidate countries.
On behalf of the Danish Presidency I would like once again to thank the European Parliament and the Commission for the sound cooperation and call upon us all to join forces in the weeks ahead too in order to achieve our common aim - to conclude the first round of enlargement negotiations in Copenhagen in December.
In this connection, I am very much looking forward to participating in the great enlargement debate here in Parliament in two weeks' time on 19 November.
I hope that we here in the Community can send a strong message to the people and governments of Europe that the time has come to conclude ten years' work, that the time has come to open the gates to our common future and that the time has come to make the crucial decision on enlargement. (Applause) Ladies and gentlemen, you are now all aware of the results of the Brussels European Council.
The Council was well organised and well managed by the Danish Presidency and it allowed us to eliminate all the obstacles standing in the way of enlargement.
We have been given a mandate to conclude the accession negotiations with ten countries by the end of the year.
I also want to stress the solidarity the Brussels Council showed towards the candidate countries, which still need financial help to approach the level of development of the rest of the continent.
Brussels was the result of constant effort day after day that enabled us to rebut the gloomiest forecasts and to overcome, one by one, all the major obstacles to Europe's unification.
So ten years on, another crucial chapter of our shared history will be written at Copenhagen.
We will be proposing the measures needed to draw up a new roadmap and to step up financial assistance and at Copenhagen the European Council will be able to take a decision on these.
The elections that have just taken place in Turkey make it all the more necessary to decide at Copenhagen on directions for this new stage.
The European Council accepted our proposals in general and gave us a mandate to negotiate on the institutional and financial chapters still open.
The allocation of 23 billion euro to the Structural Funds agreed to by the European Council is less than what the Commission originally proposed.
Lastly, thanks to the efforts of all parties, a very important agreement was reached on agriculture, one of the most sensitive financial issues, to apply from 2007.
But these issues are not likely to halt the whole process.
More generally, a thorough look at all our policies is needed to take account of the quantitative and, even more so, the qualitative aspects of the new environment we will be working in after enlargement.
An EU of 25 Member States takes us into a new dimension.
We are setting in motion a new social project for the whole of Europe, a project that calls for strong popular support.
It means carrying through an internal reform process that affects all facets of society in the candidate countries.
Our task is to support them in their efforts, setting out a joint agenda that makes instruments and adequate resources available to them and harnessing the full potential of the stabilisation and association process.
The proposed solution for Kaliningrad, for example, is an important element in our relationship with the Russian Federation, a relationship we need to develop and consolidate.
Enlargement is also a terrific opportunity to redefine our role in the world, a chance to devise a new type of political regionalism by reorganising our continent spatially.
The work the Convention has done - in particular the document its chairman presented recently - is an important contribution and provides a reference for future proposals.
The pressure exerted by the three institutions together has made the breakthrough in negotiations possible and enabled us to have a solid expectation that this project, the greatest in our time within the European Union, can, as planned, be brought to completion in Copenhagen in December.
The object of this round of negotiations was to establish which positions on the part of the candidate countries remain unresolved.
The good news is that none of it is incapable of being sorted out in the timeframe envisaged, so that it seems realistic in terms of the timetable to conclude a second round of negotiations by the time of the General Affairs Council on 18 November, thus getting a very large number of the still unresolved issues out of the way.
This is then to be rounded off by a final round, leading to the accession conferences immediately prior to the General Affairs Council in Copenhagen.
I would simply like to remind you that it is not only public opinion in the Member States that has to be taken into account in wrapping up the package for the final negotiations; we also have to bear in mind the fact that the governments and parliaments in the candidate countries have to convince public opinion on their side that joining the European Union is a good thing.
Now is the time to send out a clear and unmistakeable signal that we honour the enormous achievements that have come about over the last ten years in societies over there, and to do this by forcing ourselves to adopt a certain generosity as the negotiations move into their final stage.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, seldom can there have been an issue and a resolution of problems on which the Presidency of the Council, the Council of Ministers as a whole, the Commission and we in Parliament can have acted with such unanimity and common purpose.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I was very favourably struck by the way that you put your remarks in this historic context, and I believe that this is what we have to do.
We very much welcome the fact that the way is now open for ten Central European states plus Malta and Cyprus, that the mandate is on the table, and that now the Commission's and the governments' hard work can be continued, enabling us, Mr President-in-Office, to actually achieve that of which you spoke: 'From Copenhagen to Copenhagen!' It will also enable you to say, on the 12 and 13 of December: 'The Treaties are ready for signature.' That is what I wish you; that is what I wish for all of us for the sake of Europe's future.
Our group currently maintains close contacts with both countries, but they have a long distance still to cover.
As regards Turkey, I will be quite frank in saying that there are different positions in our group concerning its membership in the European Union, for our group is a very democratic one - Christian Democrats and Conservatives could not be anything else - but I will tell you very clearly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council that there is one thing we do agree on, and that is that we do not believe that the time is right to specify a date for the commencement of negotiations in December and in Copenhagen.
I would also like to remind you of something that is a matter of European concern, even though it affects my own country, namely that political foundations from the Federal Republic of Germany, not only our own party's, but the ones associated with the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Liberals, are accused of espionage in Turkey.
and, I hope, also with what I have to say on other subjects.
Turning to Kaliningrad, it is my urgent recommendation, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we do not give Lithuania in particular the impression that we would make concessions to a large European country, one that does not belong to the European Union, on the back of this rather small future Member State, Lithuania.
Quite apart from anything else, the Danish Presidency of the Council has so far done its job extraordinarily well, which also demonstrates that you do not have to be a big country to be a success in Europe. (Applause) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for having described the issue in appropriate terms: what we need is a political vision and to overcome a division of the continent which has lasted for more than a century.
And furthermore, you have made constructive use of an agreement - the Franco-German agreement on the funding of the agricultural policy - to make progress on an issue which is important in view of enlargement, which is the financial issue.
And if you will allow me, Mr President, leaving aside something that we must debate in plenary session at the second reading in November, which is the state of the negotiations and the conditions for each candidate country, I will mention an important issue, that of funding, with a prior warning: I clearly support President Cox in his criticisms of all the governments - beginning with the Presidency - in relation to their continued treatment since Nice of the allocation of seats in the European Parliament.
With regard to the conclusions, there is a positive point, and that is that you have accepted that no candidate country should be a net contributor from the outset.
However, there is one point on which I believe we must defend the rights of the European Parliament, and of all Parliaments: budgets in all democratic countries are carried out on an annual basis.
We are going to achieve a budgetary miracle: to do more with less.
Furthermore, I would like to ask you directly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, about the fifth priority, I believe, which you mentioned at the Copenhagen meeting.
You said that we had to continue working on the reform of the agricultural policy.
And I say this because this Parliament is going to vote tomorrow on a resolution on the mid-term review of the reform of the CAP, and that is important.
The candidate countries are full participants in the Convention.
We are talking about our future.
So far progress has been made on a fundamental issue, they have listened to President Giscard d'Estaing who has proposed what is known as - and I think this a terrible expression - the 'skeleton of the Convention'.
I should like to address three issues, Mr President-in-Office: first of all, Turkey.
The resolution we shall vote on tomorrow is quite vague where Turkey is concerned.
I think it is important for us to do as you did and clearly and unambiguously encourage the forces of reform in Turkey, as well as welcoming the positive signals coming from the new government in Ankara.
There remains a great deal to be done before the Copenhagen criteria have been fulfilled, but I hope that the Copenhagen European Council may mean a qualitative step forwards in relations with Turkey.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party would very much like, however, to have seen a clearer reform agenda with express support for Commissioner Fischler's proposals and for the commitments we made in Doha.
The candidate countries must subsequently hold their referendums.
I hope that we can all use the run-up to 2004 to engage with people throughout the continent and explain to them, inform them about and convince them of the importance of unifying Europe, not for our sake but for theirs.
Of course, we welcome the fact that the list of the ten proposed members has been approved, but, in our view, the terms of the agreement reached between the Fifteen on the budgetary and financial issues for the 2004-2006 period do not augur well in terms of the ability, if not the will of the key European leaders to make a reality of a vision of Europe that lives up to the aspirations that I have just outlined.
We have already seen discrimination in the way that direct aid has been allocated to the farmers of the candidate countries.
It is in the interest of everyone to make a lasting success of enlargement, but the cost that this will certainly entail cannot be, as is the case at the moment, according to current plans, around 0.08% of the fifteen Member States' GDP for each of the first three years.
The medium-term objective must be very ambitious: to provide job security and training for all men and women throughout the whole of the enlarged Europe, to consolidate public services that are worthy of the name, to achieve genuinely sustainable development in all 25 Member States, and as a result combat social and fiscal dumping.
At this very moment in Florence, the European Social Forum is setting an example by bringing together citizens and young people in particular from across the continent to discuss the challenges of society and civilisation that we are all facing.
In this fairly uninspiring context, we do, in any case, welcome the fact that the decisions taken at Brussels will allow the Union to present its negotiating position to the candidate countries on time.
However, we cannot hide the fact that the agreements on the common agricultural policy are essentially yet another way of putting off difficult decisions until a later date.
We can only criticise the Council for not linking the decision on direct payments to a further reform of the CAP and not seeking agreement on the principle of making these payments conditional upon environmental and social requirements, running the risk of perpetuating all those dysfunctional elements and imbalances which make the CAP the most absurd, costly European policy in existence today, harming precisely those small producers of quality produce that we want to reward.
Moreover, we cannot hide the fact that the candidate countries are not wholly satisfied with the agreements reached in Brussels.
Indeed, although it is true that, on paper, the Union has undertaken to offset the new countries' obligation to contribute 100% to the Community budget as of day one with compensatory payments and Structural Funds appropriations, it is also true that there is no guarantee that these countries will be able to absorb these resources for high-quality projects quickly, or at least not as quickly and directly as they will have to pay out the money to the Union's budget.
We would have preferred gradual phasing-in of these countries' contributions to the Community budget, as was the case for Spain and Portugal.
Mr President, over the last month, serious momentum has been building up with regard to the process of EU enlargement and the fulfilment of our political vision in this respect.
Firstly, on 9 October 2002, the Commission concluded that 10 candidate countries were in a position to accede to the European Union.
Secondly, on 19 October 2002, the Irish people approved the provisions of the Treaty of Nice, which ensure that EU enlargement can take place within an agreed timeframe.
Thirdly, the EU leaders in Brussels on 24 October 2002 endorsed the findings of the European Commission that 10 countries fulfil the necessary political and economic criteria to assume membership of the EU by 2004.
This will ensure that enlargement negotiations can be concluded by the Copenhagen Summit of EU leaders in December 2002.
A target date of April 2003 has also been set for accession treaties to be signed in Athens under the presidency of the Greek Government.
This includes a range of issues including the extension of qualified majority voting at Council level, the re-weighting of votes in the Council, the extension of codecision measures to the European Parliament and the reform of the European Commission.
The future financing of EU enlargement was a centre-stage issue at the Brussels Summit.
They were told how the common agricultural policy was going to operate for a seven year period until 2006 and they were basing their commercial decisions on this framework as laid down in the Berlin Agreement.
As the corollary decision to this decision taken by the EU leaders, the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy will be just that - a review of the CAP rather than a reform.
This may not be music to the ears of the proponents of sweeping CAP reform but that is the reality of the conclusions of the Brussels Summit.
In conclusion, when it comes to addressing the challenges of EU enlargement, certainty, determination and commitment are all words that can be used to sum up the opinions of the vast majority of the people living in Europe as well as those of legislators working on these important issues within the different EU institutions.
In actual fact, the decisions taken at Brussels, and the agreement between France and Germany in particular, are a serious threat to the future.
What is more serious is that since Nice, the European Union seems to be rushing headlong from one summit to the next, as if Europe were trying to conceal its concern and to regain some composure in the eyes of others.
Mr President, in keeping with a long tradition of statements that both appease and stir up the masses, the conclusions of the latest Brussels Summit state that the enlarged Union seeks - and I quote - 'to ensure the orderly development of its policies for the benefit of all its citizens'.
It is clear, however, that at least one category of citizens will not benefit from these policies after 2006, and this is the French farmers.
The agricultural budget will be the same with 25 Members as it is currently with 15, and in addition, from 2004 to 2013, the direct aid for CEEC countries will increase from 25% to 100% of what farmers in the Fifteen currently receive.
Mr President, the Brussels Summit was above all about enlargement of the European Union.
The British Conservative Party has argued strongly and consistently in favour of the enlargement eastwards of the EU since the Berlin Wall fell some 13 years ago.
Indeed, the manifesto on which I and my colleagues were elected in 1999 states quite clearly the reasons why we support this process so enthusiastically.
Europe will be a better place as a result of enlargement and I congratulate the Danish Presidency on the skill and the commitment it has displayed in reaching this point.
However, given the fact that we have waited 13 years for this historic moment, I want to reiterate that there must be no foot-dragging, no more delays and no more last-minute vested interests should be allowed to stand in the way.
On no account should we allow budgetary discussions to be derailed by reopening issues that have been long settled, in particular, the continuation of the British budgetary abatement, which was agreed unanimously by heads of government at Berlin in 1999.
We must never lose sight of the fact that the benefits of enlargement far outweigh the costs.
The same principle of course applies to the European Union.
I recognise the Danish Presidency's enthusiasm for wishing to carve out a road from Copenhagen to Copenhagen, but I want to be clear that Copenhagen is not the end of the process - hopefully it is the beginning of the end of the process.
There is still a lot of work to be done by the candidate countries, we still have a ratification process, and this Parliament will take its assent powers very seriously indeed.
So we must not allow the candidate countries to think the process is over.
I would like to remind everyone that the Commission will be producing a further progress report six months before the date of accession.
I would also like to congratulate the Danish Presidency for establishing an indicative framework for further agricultural spending which in no way prejudices future reform of the CAP, nor future discussions on financing the European Union, nor our international trade commitments in the Doha round.
I recently represented the Socialist Group in Romania, and was singularly impressed by the progress that is being made under the current government, which has finally got to grips with some of the issues.
I welcome the decision of the Council to increase the safeguard clauses from two years to three years, although I am concerned by the wording which says that these could apply from day one of accession.
Therefore, our number one priority on Kaliningrad is to guarantee the sovereignty of the Lithuanian State and its ability to enter Schengen.
I would also like to congratulate the Council on resolving the issues relating to the financing of the closure of Ignalina power station.
Mr President, it is truly wonderful to know that enlargement is so well on track and that common agricultural policy reform will not hold up the entry of the fast track ten.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having reached this stage of the debate and taking into account what has already been said, I shall simply begin by saying that this Brussels Council was a Council that gave us no surprises, good or bad.
The Europe of Fifteen will therefore welcome ten new members, on the condition that they are docile and that they agree to do what the 15 Member States often do not do themselves.
And I say this because it is my view, even though I remarked upon Commissioner Verheugen's spirit of openness.
What is certainly more serious is that this enlargement could have been or could be a way of enriching the Union with even greater diversity provided by these ten new countries and by taking greater account, in parallel, of the diversities of the current 15 States.
The only things that count, in the long run, are the market and free competition.
But if we do not redress the balance now, we will then only have one great liberal market subject to two restrictions, namely US policy restrictions, on the one hand, and global economic and financial restrictions on the other.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, the Brussels Council has once again shown a politically negative face: two Member States decide for the rest, without taking account of everybody else's contribution to the common project.
On the other hand, we have seen a necessary and expected decision: enlargement to the East.
As you have said, Mr Prodi, enlargement is the solution and not the problem.
Ambition, yes, but we must also accept that we need a greater budgetary contribution which reflects, in all respects, the challenge of this enormous political project, since to extract as much as possible from the present budget will not be sufficient.
Mr President, at the Brussels European Council, the Chairman of the Convention presented the preparation of what he called a 'constitutional treaty'.
Mr President, the process of the accession of ten new Member States is now nearing completion.
They knew very well that it is our security and prosperity that will benefit from enlargement.
The group chairman has already commented on this, and rightly so.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, the undoubted success of the Brussels Summit was primarily brought about, of course, by the compromise that was reached on agricultural funding.
This is a compromise with which it is possible to live, but many speakers have already alluded to the fact that it is no substitute for reform of European agricultural policy.
I wish to call upon you, Mr President of the Council, to do something that is made urgent by the decision we are to take tomorrow, namely, to maintain dialogue with Parliament on agricultural policy reform, without leaving out the Commission or, when he comes up with sensible proposals, Commissioner Fischler, who is responsible for these matters.
Secondly, the safeguard clause, to which reference has already been made, is an important factor in building our countries' confidence that reforms and the reform process in the candidate countries will be continued with.
This government must first demonstrate its ability to implement the decisions taken by the previous parliament, to recognise human rights and the rights of minorities, and Turkey has to show its ability to handle a change of government without military intervention.
Particularly as regards the Balkans, it is important to indicate by word and deed - as Brussels has done - that when these countries are prepared to implement economic reforms, when they are ready to give recognition to human and minority rights, when they are ready to take the road that leads to full democracy, then the Balkan countries can join the EU - not today, not tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Danish Presidency for the conclusions of the Brussels Summit in preparing the way for these ten countries to begin to assume obligations of membership by the beginning of 2004.
In so doing, firstly, we would like some clarity about potential new obligations on foreign policy which could arise as a result of enlargement.
The question to the President of the Commission is whether this reform is still on course and what has now happened to the mid-term review.
Looking to the future, I would like to pick up Mr Barn Crespo's point.
And, at least until 2013, the Parliament itself must be involved in the negotiation of this financial perspective once the negotiations are under way.
In terms of Cyprus, I would like a clear statement that neither the Commission nor the Council intends to set a date for the opening of negotiations.
We must have the full and fair implementation of the Copenhagen criteria in political and economic matters.
Perhaps, above all, it is a decision for the Member States and not for other countries to take a decision as to when a date should be set for Turkey to start negotiations.
It is not sufficient that we should simply say everybody is welcome, because I believe there is a limit to the matters of EU enlargement and this should be thought about now.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Prodi, President of the Commission, thirteen years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, I would like to say well done on taking the penultimate step which will enable Europe to reconcile its history with its geography.
We would, however, like to express our concern regarding the impact of this agreement on the much-needed reform of the common agricultural policy.
This reform cannot wait until 2007, as it will only increase injustice and encourage the new member countries to adopt an approach based on maximum productivity.
This reform is all the more necessary because, as of 2007, the agricultural budget will be reduced.
That is why we reaffirm our support for Commissioner Fischler's proposals and we support the idea of a mid-term review, which can alone enable us to redefine the future prospects for all farmers, and not just for large cereal producers.
It is the only way to make our common agricultural policy match our ambitions in the area of development aid.
With regard to Kaliningrad, well done on respecting Lithuania's sovereignty, although this will mean nothing if the Union fails to use all the resources at its disposal to bring an end to the lawless situation in Kaliningrad, which has been caused by a deterioration of the economic situation.
Lastly, let us remain consistent: we want a Union that is underpinned by the principle of secularity like a school of democracy and tolerance.
Mr President, I also congratulate our Danish colleagues on the way in which they have handled enlargement.
The President of the Commission said that the common agricultural policy has been solved.
I feel that what has actually happened is that the agreement between President Chirac and Chancellor Schrder went in some way to undermine the way in which Commissioner Fischler was proposing his reforms.
Finally, I wish to speak particularly for my constituents in East Anglia, many of whom have not drawn on the common agricultural policy because they grow crops which have never been subsidised by this Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the announcement by the President of the Council that we can expect Copenhagen to produce new resolutions on Turkey.
I want to make four comments in this regard, comments that I hope you, Mr President of the Council, will be able to take to heart.
Put more simply, the Commission, and, I believe, the overwhelming majority in Parliament too, does not believe that, at the moment, progress has been made to a sufficient degree as to make it possible to come to definite agreements with Turkey concerning the commencement of negotiations.
In the election campaign, they even explicitly rejected a whole range of the reform measures that we had demanded.
I wish both Presidents a very great deal of success in this incredibly difficult undertaking. (Applause) Mr President, it was a remarkable Summit with a remarkable result, because the ten candidate member states nominated by the Commission have passed this stage, so that the negotiations can now be completed and we can remain on schedule for 2004.
Slovakia, the country for which I am responsible, has reacted with great relief to the events of the past few weeks, including, of course, the referendum in Ireland.
As President Prodi rightly stated a moment ago, enlargement should not lead to exclusion.
Agreement on the financial aspects of enlargement has removed the last major obstacle which stood in the way of concluding the accession negotiations with ten countries at the December Copenhagen Council.
I welcome the fact that in relation to the sensitive area of the future financing of the common agricultural policy that EU leaders agreed that direct payments to farmers in current EU Member States would remain stable until 2006.
I would like to conclude by not only congratulating the Danish Presidency once again and welcoming the fact that its confidence proved to be right, but also by wishing it a similar success at the Copenhagen Council.
Mr President, the enlargement of the European Union in terms of numbers is now a fact of life.
The single currency, enlargement, efforts to bring about a common defence and security policy and the work being carried out by the convention clearly show that Europe is moving and is moving dynamically.
And it is the agricultural sector, the CAP, with its massive fund of experience and coherence, that has been the common reference point for European as opposed to national policy from the birth of the EEC through to the present day.
Enlargement must help strengthen this common policy, not upset the balanced compromise achieved, be it between the 15 or the 25 Member States of the Union.
Enlargement makes a most positive contribution to the future of Europe, the importance of which will become more and more apparent with each passing day.
I am positive that at some point - be it before or after integration - this development will help resolve the political problem that has beset Cyprus for years.
The EUR 40 billion a year that the European Union spends on the CAP is an expensive way to distort our farming industry.
The United Kingdom has a special interest and responsibility in this area.
After all, it was the British Prime Minister who gave the green light to this misguided policy in 1998 and now he has promised significant elements of Britain's already over-stretched armed forces to fill any capability gaps given the complete lack of willingness on the part of most other European countries to upgrade their defence capabilities in any meaningful way.
Thank you, Mr President.
I am looking forward to being able to continue our discussions in the great enlargement debate here in Parliament on 19 November.
With regard to enlargement, I would like to thank you for the many positive remarks made concerning the Presidency's efforts so far and concerning the course of the Brussels Summit.
There is a need for considerable political will, but I would like to say that the European Council convinced me that this political will exists and the debate that we have had here today in Parliament has underlined the same thing - that there is a strong political will within the European Union for this enlargement to succeed.
A great many issues have been raised, and there is no way that I can respond to them all.
In other words, Turkey will be able to obtain a date for commencing accession negotiations if and when Turkey fulfils the political criteria.
Vice versa, it is important to emphasise that the political criteria must be fulfilled in full in order for the country to be given such a date.
Turkey must not be measured by different standards to the other candidate countries.
Turkey must be treated exactly like any other candidate country.
The Commission made it clear in its progress report that Turkey does not yet fulfil the political criteria.
Naturally we must now keep a close eye on political developments in Turkey following the elections that have been held, and we must then find a balanced solution at the Copenhagen Summit.
I consider it too early at present to give a final answer regarding the decision which may be made at the Copenhagen Summit, but let me stress that in order to obtain a date Turkey must fulfil the conditions just like every other candidate country.
The second topic that has been raised by various Members is agriculture and budgets.
Well, the answer is very simple: it was a precondition for the Presidency and the Commission being given a mandate to complete negotiations with the candidate countries, because certain countries made it a requirement that a decision had to be taken on the long-term financial outlook.
The Council will continue to discuss the Commission's mid-term review of agricultural policy.
The issue of the safeguard clauses was also raised.
I would like to emphasise that there are two types of safeguard clause.
Firstly, there is a general safeguard clause, and secondly, there are two specific safeguard clauses.
The two specific safeguard clauses concern the common market and legal and internal affairs.
Where the specific safeguard clauses are concerned, these can only be invoked in respect of the new Member States, but it is an important aspect that the point of the safeguard clauses is actually to avoid them being invoked; they will only be invoked if the new countries do not abide by the acquis that they have undertaken to abide by and, since we expect them to abide by this acquis, I hope that the issue of invoking safeguard clauses will not become relevant.
In connection with the general safeguard clause, I would like to underline the fact that we are already familiar with these from earlier enlargements of the EU.
In fact, we have always had safeguard clauses.
I may mention that when my own country - Denmark - joined the then EC, there was a safeguard clause lasting for five years.
When Spain and Portugal acceded to the EU, there was a safeguard clause lasting up to seven years.
When Sweden, Finland and Austria became members, there were safeguard clauses lasting up to one year.
We are thus already familiar with safeguard clauses and therefore it is not a case of discrimination against the new members.
We will not allow ourselves to come under pressure, but neither do I want to spend time discussing with anyone where a summit is to be held.
Naturally, however, we all have a common interest in finding a solution jointly with Russia, because we have an overall interest in developing a strong strategic partnership between Russia and the European Union.
We must try to find a reasonable solution to transit from Russia to Kaliningrad, but this must be done with full respect for the sovereignty of Lithuania.
The Danish Presidency will keep a watch on this.
With a debate on the future of Europe, with a proposal for the frameworks for a new constitutional Treaty and with the possibility of concluding accession negotiations with ten new Member States in just over a month's time, we are in the midst of crucial decisions - we are standing on the threshold of a new epoch in European history.
The European Parliament, the Commission and the Presidency have together fought for enlargement.
The debates and questions have focused on minor issues and on the progress we need to make on these issues in the future.
This kind of consensus really is extremely rare.
I fully agree: we did not spend a great deal of time talking about the Balkans, but our policy of association and stabilisation processes and ongoing relations and assistance is part of a strategy for achieving a long-term goal precisely of making the Balkans part of the Union too.
It will take time and, above all, the process will differ from country to country - close monitoring of these countries has shown that some move faster than others - but the Balkans are becoming increasingly our responsibility, and we are aware of this and taking appropriate action.
The Commission report is very specific and very clear on this point and the position we take must therefore be consistent with it.
I have no comment to make on the subject of Kaliningrad, other than to say that we will respect the position of Lithuania and its rights as a new Member of the Union.
All our work, including the difficult negotiations, has taken such a long time precisely because of the need to respect these principles.
The Commission vehemently and unequivocally condemns all terrorist acts, starting with the tragic incident of the hostages in the Moscow theatre.
It affirms equally explicitly that the fight against terrorism cannot be pursued at the expense of human rights.
There is also a Russian undertaking to take certain steps to improve human rights in Chechnya, which include reducing the number of troops present, putting an end to what are known as round-ups and, as I said before, allowing prosecutors to observe military operations.
There have been countless statements made to this effect and we must ensure that this, at least, does happen.
Furthermore, two NGO workers - one European and one local - who were taken prisoner some weeks ago, have still not been released.
Lastly, we must constantly and insistently make it clear that a political solution is the only way to resolve the Chechen question.
After Brussels, the reform of the CAP is still on the table.
Moreover, Commissioner Fischler is going to take part in a debate on the matter in this very Chamber.
Mr President, I asked a very specific question on the subject of this referendum that was still hanging over us in the Netherlands and what the effects of a possible negative outcome will be, compared to those in the candidate member states.
Given that the Treaty has to be ratified by all the Member States, a referendum means that the Netherlands are not ratifying it and are therefore holding up the whole process.
Mr President, I will try to speak briefly on the two issues suggested to me by the Presidency of Parliament, bearing in mind that you have spent a good sitting debating such an important issue as the enlargement of the European Union, which is surely the most important issue on all of our agendas at the moment.
It has been suggested to me that I speak today on two fundamental issues: the situation in the Middle East and the policy on Iraq.
Mr President, it falls to me to speak on a very special day with regard to two issues which are occupying the front pages of all of today's newspapers.
In the Middle East, as the honourable Members know, a quick - and for some perhaps unexpected - decision by Prime Minister Sharon has led to a change of government and the calling of early elections in Israel at the end of January.
And with regard to the situation in Iraq, right now in New York, the debate is starting on the Security Council Resolution on Iraq.
I will therefore comment on these two issues, bearing in mind the restrictions we are faced with at the moment.
As you know - and this has been published since the meeting in September - it was expected that this process would involve three phases: a first phase, of what remains of this year and the first part of next year, with the elections in Palestine and with the resolution of the issues of internal reforms and the humanitarian issues which, unfortunately, are yet to be dealt with.
We in Europe want this process to continue and we want to continue to be involved in the process we began not many months ago in New York within the context of the Quartet.
I believe that it is essential, from the point of view of Palestinian politics, to see the implementation of a positive, constructive and in-depth debate on the strategic sense of the intifada.
If in the minds of the citizens it seems that violence has disappeared, that is worth much more than all the security structures which could be implemented on the ground.
The second important issue in relation to the Palestinians is the change in the government of the Palestinian Authority carried out by President Arafat and which has the support of the Palestinian Legislative Authority.
The two most important things, and the things I would most like to stress in relation to this change in government, are: firstly, the role of the Finance Minister, who has held his post since the first change in government.
He is a man who has the agreement, the consensus and the support of the international community and of the international financial institutions.
Secondly, the change of Interior Minister, in other words, the Minister responsible for security.
I believe that this change is also going to play a fundamental role in terms of the speedy development and resolution of the security issue, which is still one of the essential elements of the problem.
The third issue I would like to highlight relates to the humanitarian aspects.
There is absolutely no doubt that the situation of the Palestinian citizens is still appalling from a humanitarian point of view.
We have done everything we can within the European Union and within the Quartet so that the resources belonging to the Palestinian Authority, which are currently still in the hands of the Israeli Government, are returned to the Palestinian Authority immediately, and are returned month by month, so that the Finance Minister may have the capacity to produce a budget worthy of its name with knowledge of the resources available at the beginning of each month.
In terms of what is taking place in Israel, I will tell you that this afternoon I had a telephone conversation with the new Foreign Minister, Mr Netanyahu.
We will have to await the result of these primaries before we know which candidates will fight the elections to take place on 28 January.
However, I would insist that the fact that elections have been called must not slow down our work towards our aspiration: a just peace in that region which is so dear to the citizens of Europe.
Since the first informal meeting of Foreign Affairs Ministers during the Danish Presidency, the European Union has maintained a clear position with three essential elements: the objective of the operation on Iraq, the way it should be carried out and our great concerns over its consequences.
Our objective had to be - and still has to be - to disarm Iraq of weapons of mass destruction.
We have always said - we will continue to say it and, fortunately, this has been the case - that this debate should take place within the United Nations.
Fortunately, on 12 September, even the President of the United States accepted that the debate on this extremely important problem should take place within the United Nations, and I can say that we are pleased that, from 12 September until now, there have been very serious negotiations between all the members of the Security Council in order to achieve a resolution which we hope can be unanimously approved as soon as possible.
This would be the greatest victory for the legitimacy of the United Nations and therefore a victory for those who believe in multilateralism and also in the important role of the United Nations Security Council.
As the honourable Members know, the resolution on which a debate is starting at the moment is a long resolution, but its fundamental elements are as follows: the recognition that Iraq is currently failing to comply with the resolutions of the Security Council; the second essential element is that Iraq should be given an opportunity to comply with all the resolutions; thirdly, that at the moment in the resolution there should be no possibility of an automatic resort to military action; and fourthly, that Iraq is going to be asked to produce a report within 30 days on the weapons of mass destruction in its possession and allow the inspectors led by Mr Blix to be deployed immediately on the ground to verify President Saddam Hussein's claims.
Ladies and gentlemen, there is little more I can say at the moment while we wait to see what might happen in relation to Iraq in the coming hours.
It is possible that the debate on the resolution will end today and that the vote will be taken either today or tomorrow.
In relation to the Middle East, I would still insist that for us, as Europeans, the Middle East peace process and the problem there will remain amongst the priorities of our foreign and security policy.
I would like to say to you that, to a certain extent, the fact that elections in Israel have been brought forward from October next year to January is something that we can view as fundamentally positive, because it is going to allow us to begin early the whole process which should take us to the final phase of negotiations which brings about the two States we all want to see.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have little more to tell you at this point.
If the President will allow me, I would like to say that we are going to continue to work tirelessly on these two issues which are undoubtedly of fundamental importance.
To this end, nothing can be better than dialogue and, therefore, the European Union is going to continue its intense dialogue with the Arab League and also an intense dialogue with the Organisation of the Conference of Islamic States.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I believe that I have informed you about a situation, as I have said, at this very special time, when so many events are taking place in relation to the Middle East and Iraq, so that you, ladies and gentlemen, may have as much information as possible, and I am at your disposal to answer any questions you may wish to ask me.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Commission and standing in for Commissioner Patten, who sends his apologies, I would like to make a statement on the current situation in the Middle East and on what the Commission is doing about it.
The work you have done, Mr Solana, has been done under the most adverse conditions imaginable and no doubt also against the clock; I wish to congratulate you on it and promise you the Commission's continued support.
The road map towards which we are working must incorporate a specific timetable and have as its objective the outcome outlined in the Seville Council Declaration, that is, the creation of a viable Palestinian state.
The relaxation of restrictions on movement and easier access for humanitarian aid organisations could accentuate this positive trend.
The most recent Israeli Government reshuffle has resulted in a marked shift to the right.
In any case, the road map remains an international initiative with the prospect of long-term success in the form of a two-state solution.
It is to be hoped that the new Palestinian cabinet will continue with the reform work it has started and will, with the help of the international community, not only intensify it, but also use it to bring about marked improvements in the people's conditions.
It has been primarily in the area of financial management that the reform process has met with its first successes.
The conditions attached to the use of EU funds to support the budget have brought about consolidation and resulted in Palestinian financial arrangements becoming better controlled and more transparent.
The Commission will continue to work closely with Salam Fayad, the new Palestinian Finance Minister, and will use further conditions to exert a positive influence on the reform process.
Together with Member States, the Commission continues to be fully involved in preparations for the elections, and is endeavouring to ensure that all necessary support is given when they are actually held.
Neither international efforts at laying down a promising road map, nor the Palestinian Authority's efforts at reform have, however, been able as yet to bring about any improvement in the situation on the spot.
So far, it has not been possible to meet the Israeli people's need for security, or to satisfy the Palestinian people's demand for a more normal everyday life, to put an end to the restrictions on freedom of movement, or to improve the atrocious living conditions.
You will no doubt be well aware that the Commission has sought to have EUR 50 million released from the emergency reserve in order to be able to make additional aid available to towns and villages cut off from the outside world.
These ten days, which began with the shocking hostage siege in Moscow, came to a tragic end on 26 October and were also marked by increasing concern regarding the growing political instability in the Middle East and by the possibility of war with Iraq which is still being discussed in New York.
At the same time, in the Middle East, we have seen political chaos increasing over recent days and almost with each passing hour and this obviously cannot serve the cause of peace.
And the fact that, on this occasion, the Minister of Finance was able to keep his job - you welcomed this - but that the former Interior Minister, who had the courage to call for the end to the violence perpetrated by both sides, was able to be axed, seems, in our view, a very worrying sign that, in this new Cabinet, the hawks may have prevailed over the artisans of peace.
Next, a crisis ensued within the government in Israel which led to the Knesset being dissolved and early elections being called.
We welcome the fact that, when this crisis broke out, the Prime Minister, Ariel Sharon did not give in to a far-right majority which intended to condemn the Oslo Accords, expel Arafat and reject the creation of a Palestinian State.
Lastly, we hope that the same conciliatory voice will also be heard within the United Nations Security Council, by those who have been involved in tough negotiations, as you said, for six weeks, to redraft a resolution which places Iraq squarely before its responsibilities, but which still offers the prospect of a solution that does not inevitably involve the use of weapons. (Applause) Mr President, I would be grateful if you could give your warning about speaking time at the beginning of the debate, and to the Commission and the Council too, so that we can all have an equal share of the little time available.
Mr Solana, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, with regard to the situation in the Middle East, I must state that, following the escalation we have seen in recent months, Mr Solana's words give grounds for hope.
Lastly, I wish to make a very brief comment on the situation in Chechnya.
My group fully supports the view expressed by Parliament in its Resolution, that is to say, total condemnation of the terrorist attack, an expression of solidarity with the victims, some criticism of the way in which the Russian State acted, also with regard to the lives and safety of its own citizens, and the need, not in this context, but the need to include the importance of reaching a negotiated solution on the agenda of our next summit with Russia.
Mr President, my group unconditionally condemns all violence in the Middle East.
People who have hope in the future have something to lose and are therefore prepared to fight for peace instead of plodding along in the status quo or, even worse, thinking that violence is the answer.
The Palestinian Authority must, in the first instance, adopt a much tougher stance with regard to suicide attacks.
In addition, the Palestinian Authority must reform, and stamp out corruption, so that the Palestinian population can have confidence in their leaders.
The occupation and the settlements remain the biggest obstacle to real peace and security for everyone.
I should like to conclude with a comment about the forthcoming elections.
Unfortunately, neither of the parties has put a sound peace plan on the table.
That was more than twenty years ago!
Much more recently, in March 1999, the declaration of the Berlin Summit explicitly recognised the right of the Palestinians to a State.
But today, when the situation is worsening dramatically day by day, when the Oslo Accords are cast aside and forgotten, when the radical elements of the occupiers responds to the radical elements of a part of the occupied, how can we interpret the silence of the European Union Member States?
The Thursday of our next sitting will be the eve of the 35th anniversary of the celebrated UN Security Council Resolution 242 which is one of the international community's major reference points in the conflict.
I suggest we also involve young supporters of peace, young Europeans, young Palestinians, young Israelis, those who gathered en masse last Saturday in Tel Aviv to commemorate the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin.
Each of our institutions will therefore be able to state clearly what, in its view, in accordance with international law and our common values, is unacceptable and, conversely, what type of plan for fair and lasting peace we want to draft.
Both these things are true.
Therefore, we must also call for weapons inspectors and for non-governmental organisations to be allowed in to inspect the democratic situation and the relationship between the Iraqi people and Saddam Hussein.
Europe must condemn the attacks, Europe must take part in anti-terrorist actions and Europe must say no to all totalitarian impulses, even if a power such as Russia is involved.
If Europe remains silent in the face of Putin's actions, then Europe will not have had the insight or the strength to safeguard democracy.
Mr President, Mr Solana, I will be very brief for I believe we are going to have the opportunity to hold an in-depth debate on the issue of Russia and therefore on Chechnya too in Strasbourg.
Mr President, Mr Solana, Commissioner, as has already been said, the next couple of hours will see the Security Council coming to a decision on the Iraq resolution.
Let there be no doubt about the fact that Iraq must unconditionally comply with all the requirements made of it.
Saddam Hussein has already, on several occasions, demonstrated his readiness to deploy such weapons of mass destruction against his own people.
The brutal persecution of the Shiites in the south of the country is no secret either.
In any case, weapons of mass destruction will only become an incalculable menace to the international community if the rulers with control of them are themselves unpredictable and menacing, as is without doubt true of Saddam Hussein.
If anyone is to make political visits to Iraq at this time, then it should be international weapons inspectors and nobody else - and I say this with reference to the visit to Iraq of the provincial governor of Carinthia, Jrg Haider, which is his third, and is superfluous and contrary to Austrian interests.
The risk should also be calculable.
As far as Iraq is concerned, the Group of the Party of European Socialists would like to emphasise once again that neither the US, nor China, nor any other country has, therefore, the unilateral right to begin a large-scale war, wherever in the world.
Our first task is to strengthen the coalition against terrorism.
It is therefore high time that Europe stopped being just a payer and became a genuine player in the peace process.
From our European tradition, we must stress that violence is not a solution and that peace must not come directly from the top but rather must start at grass roots level.
We must therefore ensure that every example of senseless violence is condemned by public opinion, so that terrorist acts will no longer thwart peace negotiations.
Europe can and must play an executive role in this.
We must add a more political dimension to our extensive humanitarian aid by making the Palestinians and Israelis realise that they cannot be at enmity with each other for evermore.
A greater and more regular political presence in the region is therefore required more than ever.
Mr President, the situation in the Middle East remains a key concern and we must do everything, absolutely everything within our power to prevent the worst, namely war, from taking place.
The possibility of the United States' using its formidable military superiority to secure its economic interests in the region may take precedence over all other considerations.
This war will have terrible consequences if it goes ahead, but we must reiterate that the war against the Iraqi people never came to an end; they are a people held hostage by an embargo which kills, first and foremost, children and the weak but safeguards Saddam Hussein and his family.
The warlike approach that the US President is pursuing fuels the warlike approach being pursued by Ariel Sharon against the advice of the Palestinian people, but also against the security of his own people.
In this situation, the peoples of Europe and of the United States must count on themselves, because, in spite of their declarations, if Bush pushes ahead with his deadly plan, our governments will provide aid and support as they have always done, because they do not dare do otherwise.
This requires a radically new approach, that of responding to needs rather than to profits, because it is the only way to achieve real justice, the only guarantee of peace.
People and nations who have nothing to lose but their lives will be ready to sacrifice those lives for a future with dignity, a life lived in freedom.
Let us hope he will be condemned at some point, but we must give him no excuse for war because of the oil issue, and Europe must make that very clear to the United States.
And in the Security Council resolution that you have outlined to us, something is blatantly missing, and that is what happens to the sanctions if, by chance, Iraq once again agrees, as it did for many years, to allow UN observers in?
In actual fact, Mr President, the war has started.
On 10 October, Bassora airport was bombed three times.
The war has already begun.
Mr President, although the lack of political will to date by the Sharon government, which has recently resigned, and its use of the security argument as a pretext have prevented the reopening of the peace process, this process could now peter out entirely.
Its policy of using force in the occupied territories has not ended terrorism and has inflicted the greatest human bloodshed on Israel since the war in Lebanon.
The economic situation, as we also know, is terrible.
The advocates of peace have to go to enormous lengths to convince the majority of their fellow citizens that any improvement in their economic and social situation depends precisely on re-establishing political negotiations with the Palestinians; that a new national agreement must be reached in order to reach a good agreement with them.
The Palestinians, for their part, must understand that an absence of terrorism in Israel will help these advocates of peace.
It was announced on Israeli radio yesterday that Al Fatah and Hamas will meet next week in Cairo to negotiate an end to suicide attacks in Israel by Hamas.
The European Union must actively support these advocates of peace.
Mr President, Mr Solana, Commissioner, we have all been horrified by the pictures of the hostage-taking in Moscow, and we have to unequivocally hold fast to the fact that nothing justifies the taking of hostages.
If eyewitness reports are accurate in stating that the hostages' captors were shot while still unconscious, then that represents a flagrant breach of every system of law and must therefore be condemned.
I believe it to be the European Union's task to support Russia and help it to get a process of negotiation going without delay.
Mr President, Mr Solana, Commissioner, I do not believe these reassuring words on the situation in Palestine because, on the one hand, the new appointments in the Palestinian Government do not appear to increase the influence of those working sincerely for peace and, on the other, there is a risk that it is imperative that Europe avoids.
There needs to be the greatest possible transparency in the distribution of this aid and its management, for the experience of previous situations teaches us that such aid is very often appropriated for specific objectives - and if they are humanitarian objectives I endorse them, we all endorse them - but then it goes off track.
The situation of these countries, particularly the ongoing situation in Palestine - a political and social situation in which there are opposing groups and feuds - is such as to suggest that such aid might be used for the activities of groups such as Hamas, for example, with the result that funds donated as humanitarian aid end up being aid to terrorism.
As regards Europe's policy on Iraq, however, I feel that we must not confine ourselves to purely diplomatic measures but, mindful of the commitments made after September 11, exploit all the possibilities offered by intelligence in order to get to the heart of the matter and tackle the roots of terrorism, which are in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States.
Be that as it may, the situation in the Middle East and in the Near East requires us to be more vigilant than ever.
With regard to the Palestinian elections, we must support the desire of the Palestinian people to have political leaders who are representative and who have greater democratic legitimacy - which we must now acknowledge - and we must do everything in our power to ensure that these elections are able to take place as they should.
As for the elections in Israel, I perceive them to be more of a cause for concern than a source of hope.
These elections are, admittedly, an opportunity for civil society in Israel to demonstrate its desire for peace in a region, no part of which has escaped this horror.
Mr President, I shall try to be brief in order to comply with the time requirements that the Presidency has generously set for all speakers.
I should like to emphasise once again that, where the Middle East is concerned, when we meet in Parliament, we should try not always to start from the beginning and instead work on the assumption that all of us gathered here basically believe that an entire people is suffering, that an entire people has had a very hard time for many years, that this problem must be resolved and that we must attempt to provide solutions.
We want there to be, as soon as possible, two States that can live together, democratically, side by side with one another, in peace and prosperity.
We now need to attempt to resolve the problems that exist.
The European Union is also making a very significant and effective contribution to this debate, and this has been acknowledged by everyone, amongst the Palestinians and amongst the most intelligent strata of Israeli society, who also understand the importance of this role.
We also acknowledge, however, that there is a risk posed by weapons of mass destruction, and that this is not the problem of just one country.
It is in our interest and is our obligation as civilised countries.
On Monday, as you all know, a summit will take place here, in Brussels, at which all of these issues will doubtless be addressed with President Putin.
Thank you very much, Mr Solana.
The debate is closed.
Without wishing to give a complete history of the various stages of the common agricultural policy and subsequent reviews carried out by the European Union, allow me nevertheless to remind you that the European Council, at the Berlin Summit, set out the applicable guidelines for the period 1999-2006.
I would remind you that the European Council asked the Commission to present a report in 2002 on changes in agricultural spending, accompanied, where necessary, by the appropriate proposals.
It is within this context that the European Commission sent a proposal for a reform of the common agricultural policy to Parliament and the Council, which was presented by Commissioner Fischler on 10 July this year.
Discussions within the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development therefore took place within this context, resulting in the drafting of the resolution I have the honour of presenting to you today.
The debate was extremely comprehensive.
As we can see from the 388 amendments tabled by the members of the committee, the compromise we were able to achieve required a great deal of effort from all concerned, whatever their political leanings or the national interests they represent.
The vote, which was won by a substantial majority, shows, if this were necessary, its members' concern to go beyond political and national divisions in order to present comments capable of influencing the debates.
First and foremost, its aim is to reiterate the fundamental principles of the common agricultural policy, in particular financial solidarity, the need for a fair income for producers and the maintenance of border protection in order to prevent distortions of competition.
Its second aim is to define the broad guidelines for its implementation by paying more attention to the concerns expressed by European citizens with regard to the environment, health protection, food quality, rural development and animal welfare, while responding to farmers' demands concerning remuneration for their work and the simplification of the agricultural policy's administration, to encourage young farmers to work in the sector.
That is why the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development feels that, without calling into question the powers of the other committees concerned, any adaptation of the CAP must take place within a long-term budgetary perspective which must, in any case, go beyond 2006, the year in which new guidelines will have to be negotiated.
The fact that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Council take the same view shows how important it is to maintain a strong common agricultural policy which is seen by all our citizens to be implemented equitably, and which we now need to endorse.
With regard to the resolution proposed, I shall first consider market management aid.
That is why the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development suggests partial decoupling.
Lastly, the suggested proposals to lower intervention prices do not appear necessary in the current context.
Establishing partial decoupling in the work of the committee would allow producers to receive a fixed sum of basic aid per farm or per hectare, calculated on past figures but restricted to a maximum figure of EUR 10 000.
The second element of the resolution is the reinforcement of the second pillar, in order to support certain policies relating to rural development.
The third guideline concerns the need for strict compliance by producers who receive Community aid, under both the first and the second pillar, with the principles laid down by European directives in the field of environmental protection and animal welfare.
The Commissioner reminded us of all this within the Committee on Agriculture at our meeting of 5 October and the European Commission should soon submit legislative measures which will have to comply with all of these restrictions.
Now, in addition, the European Council has answered a number of budget questions relating to the common agricultural policy.
The summit decisions are, in the first place, significant in that the way ahead is opened up for the Member States to conclude the enlargement negotiations, and in that the fifteen Heads of State and Government have accepted the Commission proposal for the phasing-in of direct payments in the agricultural sector for the new Member States.
This framework consists of the EU Fifteen's planned expenditure for 2006 on the one hand, and the ten new members' financial proposals for 2006 in nominal values on the other.
The Presidency's Final Conclusions establish that the Brussels decisions should no more prejudice the mid-term review decided on at Berlin than the international commitments we made at Doha and elsewhere, any more than any other future decisions on the common agricultural policy.
It is, in this context, noteworthy that the Brussels Summit set no limit to the funds for rural development.
Quite on the contrary, it reminded us of the importance of the less favoured regions and of the multifunctionality of agriculture, in effect, then, of the development of the second pillar, for which Parliament has called on many occasions already.
I am therefore working on the assumption that Parliament will be firm in stating its intentions when setting down the new Financial Perspective for the post-2006 period, on which, in contrast to the common agricultural policy, it has full power of codecision.
I warn against adopting any such interpretation, as, if the international negotiations produce any commitment to make blue-box reductions - something that the European Union, like all the WTO members represented at Doha, has declared itself prepared, in principle, to do and to which the Council re-committed itself at the sustainability summit in Johannesburg - then that would mean at least partial abandonment of direct payments, as the option of decoupling would then no longer be available.
This analysis was also supplemented in the communication on the mid-term review by medium-term prognoses for agricultural markets and reports on the rice, nut and milk sectors, which were published by the Agriculture Directorate-General in June.
An internal investigation into EU enlargement's effects on agricultural markets and incomes in the candidate countries was published in March.
I welcome your offer of cooperation with the aim of guaranteeing that, in an enlarged Europe, the European agricultural model will be not only further developed and enhanced, but also safeguarded.
These considerations make our proposals for decoupling and strengthening the second pillar crucially important in terms of the maintenance of the European agricultural model.
I am also very receptive to Parliament's proposals for giving women a greater role in agriculture.
We must now seize the opportunity to build up a sustainable agricultural policy, to bring it into line with society's expectations, and to give farmers a long-term political perspective.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to give an account to the European Parliament of the Council's work on the mid-term review.
As agreed in Agenda 2000, on 10 July this year the Commission submitted the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy.
One of the main priorities for the Danish Presidency has been to ensure as much progress as possible in the discussions concerning the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy.
The paper has also been discussed within the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and in a number of relevant working groups.
I would like to emphasise that, like the European Parliament and other institutions, we knew from the start that our discussions on the discussion paper were to form a basis for the Commission's submission of legal proposals at a later point in time.
The Presidency has therefore organised general discussions at which ministers were given opportunity to express their various attitudes to all aspects of the Commission's communication.
Before I start my review I would like to thank the European Parliament for its discussion of the matter.
We look forward to Parliament's final decision tomorrow, and it is obvious that the decision will be extremely important and an important contribution to the debate.
In general, however, as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries I have been able to establish that there is broad agreement on the fact that rural policy should be strengthened and that greater emphasis should be placed on food safety, on protection of the environment and on animal welfare.
The mid-term review contains two entirely fundamental horizontal aspects, namely the decoupling of direct subsidies and dynamic modulation.
The Commission's ideas in this area have been more wide-ranging than has been seen previously.
The Council held its first overall discussion of these aspects in July and has yet to hold more technical discussions regarding the individual elements.
Finally, the countries also point out the negotiating advantages in a WTO context of the transition to a decoupled system.
As far as dynamic modulation is concerned, a number of ministers have welcomed the proposal in principle.
Similarly, opinion varies between the delegations regarding the reduction of the first pillar subsidies and regarding how the modulated resources should then be distributed and the criteria according to which this should take place.
I would like to comment on the more specific market sectors.
The Commission's communication was also accompanied by detailed reports on rice, nuts and milk.
The Council again had a full debate on these areas at its October meeting.
However, a number of ministers from producer countries expressed dissatisfaction with the specific measures proposed by the Commission, while the non-producer countries regarded the Commission's proposal as a step in the right direction.
With regard to milk, the Commission presented four options for the dairy sector for the period 2008-2015.
As I have mentioned previously, however, there is no agreement on the choice of tools for achieving this objective and the debate in the Council revealed divergent attitudes on matters such as the choice of instruments and distribution of the resources.
The delegations have been given opportunity to ask questions, make comments, contribute new ideas, support or criticise all aspects of the Commission's communication and the reports accompanying the communication.
In the light of this the Commission now has a solid basis for considering the Member States' wishes as regards future development of the common agricultural policy and also for drawing the necessary conclusions.
Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Council.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, in view of all the decisions being made during this key phase of the enlargement process, I would like to support you in your call for us to continue with the reform of the common agricultural policy.
In other words, it is now clear that the agreements reached at the Berlin Summit will remain in force until 2006, and that the most recent decisions provide a firm basis for planning by the EU's farmers up to 2013.
This means that the candidate countries can certainly rely on increases in direct payments as from 2004.
That, incidentally, formed part of the proposals presented by the Commission back in December 2001 on the financing of direct agricultural payments for the enlargement countries.
The only difference, and this was already clear to us back then, is that the 100% compensation payments for all EU Member States in 2013 will no longer be matched by 100% financing capacity as in 2006.
Every farmer in the enlarged European Union must be aware of that.
In order to prevent mistakes, we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats are, in a motion for a resolution tabled by all the groups in the European Parliament, requesting, for this reason among others, that unlimited budget rights and full codecision should be transferred to this House for agricultural matters.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, like many of the Members here, I am delighted to note that the Brussels European Council was able to show that agricultural issues would not be a barrier to the entry of the ten countries to the European Union in 2004.
Similarly, I also think it would be useful to know what the budget level of the first pillar of the CAP will be until 2013.
Having said that, although the summit set the level of budgetary commitments, it did not adopt a position on how this would be achieved, in other words on the CAP's provision for the second part of Agenda 2000 and after 2006.
This major question therefore remains to be answered, since nobody can dispute the fact that food safety, sustainable development and land-use planning are still undeniably fundamental issues that need to be resolved without delay.
They alone justify a review, or at least significant changes to the current CAP as of 2004.
On the one hand, therefore, we have society's expectations, to which the CAP must provide swift, positive responses; on the other, there is our strategic position in the WTO negotiations, which will be more successful if it is based on effectively strengthening the multifunctionality of European agriculture within the context of rural development, as well as partially decoupling public aid to production.
Beyond that, Commissioner, I would draw your attention to the need for qualified external protection and internal market regulation, to ensure that the efforts made by farmers to protect the environment, their work and product quality are appropriately compensated.
We have been waiting here since 5 p.m.
is my surprise that the honourable Member should approach the Bureau and attempt to enter into a dialogue without using his microphone.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, with the decision-making arrangements we have in the European Union, there is the chance occasionally to experience unexpected and exciting situations.
I want to begin by congratulating the European Council on having reached an agreement that is extraordinarily sound and extraordinarily important.
I think it extremely valuable that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development should have succeeded in this, in spite of our having had quite different views from the beginning.
In order to be able to continue the debate on a constructive change to agricultural policy in the long term, it is important, however, for the proposal put forward by the Commission in its mid-term review to be able to get off the ground.
Mr President, despite the scope of the decisions adopted at the Brussels Council, I shall restrict myself to making a few comments on the Communication on the mid-term review of the CAP presented by the Commission.
In our opinion, the decoupling of financial support would effectively end up taking the form of aid, with the consequent loss of legitimacy in the medium term.
This would run counter to the aims of cohesion, because it would limit the receipt of aid to the historical base - I am referring to the Commission's proposal as it stands - it would promote inactivity in areas that already have problems caused by nature and would concentrate aid in areas which have more intensive farming.
It would be hard to compensate for these processes by means of a few instruments for rural development with the very limited financial resources they currently have.
The ceiling of EUR 300 000 would affect only 1 900 of the four and a half million farms; according to our calculations, however, the annual 3% reduction would affect an entire range of farms, from the very small to the largest.
The proposal adopts, therefore, quite an antisocial approach.
I believe that should be of concern to you, President-in-Office of the Council, at a time when the Brussels Council is deciding on enlargement, but when, at the same time, it is freezing the agriculture budget until 2013.
When the Council speaks of rural development or sustainable development, this is clearly nothing more than rhetoric.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's proposal on the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy is worrying in a number of respects in terms of the preservation and future development of European farming.
Quite apart from the fact that this is extremely dangerous, it means that the stability of a multifunctional European model of agriculture cannot be guaranteed.
Moreover, the compulsory modulation of direct payments, as proposed by the Commission, could, in the attempt to release funds for rural development, cause further damage to the COMs in the most vulnerable and weakest sectors.
We are therefore opposed to the Commission proposal overall and we can only welcome the decision taken by the Heads of State and Government at the Brussels Summit of 24 and 25 October last to leave the Berlin Summit agreement and the budget headings unchanged until 2006.
We welcome the fact that the summit conclusions have temporarily reassured the producers and the markets of the Member States, making the possibility of a complete review and therefore distortion of the fundamental principles of the CAP less likely.
We also welcome the schedule decided upon by the summit to be followed until 2013, although it is quite clear that CAP-related budget and resource management decisions will be taken by the 25 countries together after 2006, that is with the participation of the new Member States.
In this respect, we hope for a positive outcome to a necessary consultation process, and we hope equally that the new Member States will exercise the same pragmatism as that displayed by the Heads of State and Government at Brussels and accept the recent proposal of the European Council.
More specifically, however, as regards the text of the resolution to be put to the vote tomorrow, I must stress that, although it does moderate or enhance some of the Commission's proposals in a number of respects, there are certain elements that we cannot endorse, particularly since it supports the principle of introducing a new model of support based on a system in which income support is decoupled from production, it is in favour of phasing-out direct payments, it supports the principle of compulsory modulation and since entire sectors - such as the rice, nuts, milk and animal husbandry sectors - are disregarded.
Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, whereas the Berlin agreements laid down a mid-term review of the CAP, you, Commissioner, have proposed a fundamental reform, without assessing the impact this could have on agriculture and on farmers' incomes.
You are proposing to strengthen the second pillar, yet at the same time, you are implying that you will strengthen this second pillar and extend its scope without actually defining it.
Commissioner, I also asked you this question in July and I am sorry to say that to this day I have still not received a response.
It is regrettable that the Commission makes no reference to this and I would draw your attention to the fact that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development reminds you of this in its resolution.
As we all know, these profound changes are dictated by enlargement.
Mr President, following the decisions taken at the Brussels Summit, only certain parts of our previous debate are still relevant today.
This system of coupling has now become highly relevant once again, since the Brussels Summit set the ceiling for the direct aid budget at a level that does not even guarantee compensation for inflation.
Unless a considerable reduction in agricultural income is accepted, in particular as of 2007, it will not be possible to compensate for this other than by means of prices that, in accordance with Article 33 of the Treaty, ensure an acceptable lifestyle for the farming community.
The second principle consists of a revised definition of Community preference, based on the disparity between requirements imposed on European producers and on those imposed in third countries.
This disparity justifies protecting our internal market against social or environmental dumping by the world market.
Lastly, the fourth principle is that of food safety.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to reiterate the following point: what the Brussels Summit achieved was clarification as regards financing.
Mr President, I am sure there is not much we can do about tight schedules and fixed commitments, but if you had explained to the House from the Chair that Commissioner Fischler would have to be on board a plane by a certain time and for certain reasons, I am sure we could have avoided this conflict, because everyone would have seen sense.
If you can take that on board, then I think we can have a reasonable dialogue with each other.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, this is one of the problems with transparency.
It would be a mistake, however, to confuse this funding stability with the status quo of the CAP.
And, unless this is achieved by means of transferring funds from the first pillar, I fail to see where we will find the resources to pay for this in the context of enlargement to 25, 27 and later perhaps even to 28 States; the second reason is that defending the status quo of the blue box in WTO negotiations will cost us very dear.
This is unsustainable in the long term and must be changed for a system of aid that does not discriminate between products and producers and which remedies this imbalance; the fourth reason for taking action is that the current system of aid is too complicated to be applied in a Union of 25 or 27 members.
Mr President, the common agricultural policy is out of date.
The proposals will put us in a stronger position in the World Trade Organisation negotiations.
However, our Agriculture Committee is dominated by farmers and farmers' interests and it is blinded by two obsessions.
The first is for protection against imported food and the second is for a guaranteed annual subsidy to be available to the farming industry as a whole.
The concept of a really competitive European agriculture in the world market without subsidy is far from the Committee's thinking.
The resolution pays lip service to reform but attaches so many conditions that I doubt whether the needs of enlargement, nor our obligations under the WTO, could be met.
It is ridiculous that 50% of our Community budget should be spent on a declining contribution to our GDP.
Thank you, Mr President.
The decision on long-term funding, taken at the Brussels Summit, creates the background for enlargement.
It should cover adjustments in response to the market economy and to world market prices and also, therefore, a curtailment of, and change to, the familiar policy of subsidy.
The period up until 2006 should therefore be used for preparing a reform of the EU's agricultural policy that makes European farmers competitive in the future world market.
Mr President, the reform process set in motion by the 1992 agricultural reform and continued by Agenda 2000 is to be carried forward and adjusted to reflect changing circumstances.
The Commission's proposals are a basis for discussions after 2007, as a whole raft of issues and problems correctly identified in the paper remain to be resolved.
I am quite convinced that there will be major debates on the decisions reached by the Heads of State and Government in Brussels as regards how to deal with future expenditure under EU agricultural policy within the predetermined financial framework and including the ten candidate countries.
Freezing the agriculture budget at its 2006 level as from 2007 means an annual cut in agricultural support for farmers in the existing Member States, which will be hard or even impossible to achieve in 2003, the year before the elections.
I would like to ask you, Madam President-in-Office, when you think these proposals will be implemented.
Your personal achievement has been to bring together the various different tendencies in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and to document the European Parliament's desire to have a voice in the reform process.
The European Parliament wants codecision here.
His proposals for reform were complemented by an equally thoughtful response from Parliament's Agriculture Committee and I join the previous speaker in complimenting the Chairman of our committee.
To some extent this debate has now been superseded by the decision of the Heads of State to adhere to the decisions taken in Berlin.
Berlin was interpreted by farmers as setting the agricultural agenda, without adjustment, to 2006, and for this reason I believe the recent decision by the Heads of State was correct and restores to some degree of normality what was becoming a contentious issue for farmers.
I welcome, in particular, the more long-term budgetary assurances to 2013 but feel that the 1% inflation provision should at least be index-linked.
I am satisfied that the EU is committed to safeguarding the interests of its farmers and in this regard I believe that Commissioner Fischler has shown credible leadership.
I would like to ask the Minister to clarify, in the light of recent decisions, the position with regard to decoupling and compulsory modulation.
Mr President, last summer, Commissioner Fischler's proposal for the decoupling of direct payments from production set the WTO negotiations off on the right foot.
If the CAP budget is frozen, this means an irrevocable drop in direct payments.
In this respect, the farmers have more to expect from the realism of this Commissioner than of many a minister who says that policy reforms are unnecessary but for all that freezes the budget within an enlarging Union.
Mr President, Minister, the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy is certainly innovative, but the debate on the CAP needs to be much more radical.
On the one hand, the European citizens pay over EUR 40 billion per year into the CAP budget, and, on the other, each citizen spends over EUR 300 buying farm produce, which is EUR 300 more than they would have to spend if we did not have the common agricultural policy.
We must shout out loud and clear that the European and US agricultural protectionist policies are a scandal and that, while the wealthy countries are giving the developing countries EUR 50 billion in aid, these policies alone are costing these same countries EUR 100 billion.
However, there are a few important points I would like to touch upon briefly.
We are talking about money for farming families and that means that there must be fair and measurable criteria for distribution.
It seems to me that basing the future of our agricultural policy on historical values, as the Commission is proposing, is not very forward-looking.
Through the resolution all the political groups demonstrate their support for reform of the common agricultural policy, a reform which we all deem necessary.
In addition, the reform envisages the dynamic adjustment of funds in accordance with the criteria for social and territorial cohesion.
We are very concerned about the principle of decoupling aid.
If that were to happen, it would amount to doing away with the use of this instrument to distribute the support provided by the CAP more fairly, given that the policy has created profound differences between farming areas and farmers across the European Union.
It is not possible for all farmers to pay in equal measure for the reduction in the budget for agriculture.
The 5% of farmers who received 50% of direct aid in 2001 might cope with this reduction but the small and medium-sized farmers certainly cannot.
In their future proposals for regulations, the Commission should present criteria that take account of impediments due to difficult natural conditions as well as what is needed for the implementation of environmental programmes.
The decision by the Brussels Summit to freeze EU agricultural expenditure at pre-2006 levels until 2013, enhanced by 1% per annum in inflation provision, translates directly into a reduction in appropriations.
This is because they will be divided between 25 countries and because the allowance for inflation has deliberately been pitched low.
The way in which the CAP is being applied to the candidate countries is totally discriminatory, with direct subsidies being meted out at a rate of 25% in the first year, rising to 100% in 2013, in other words when subsidies will be worthless.
Secondly, because farmers are not required to produce, there is the risk that they will give up farming in difficult areas where yields are low, leading to a real decline in rural areas where we are seeking to encourage development.
Germany's position as a net contributor will worsen simply because Germany's Federal Chancellor has locked us into the agreed financial framework for the agricultural policy from 2006 to 2013, with 25 countries.
As we have heard again and again, and as the Commissioner has also told us, the reduction in compensation payments needed after 2006 will mean that less money will go to the agricultural sector than does now, and that applies particularly to Germany.
The Commissioner for agriculture has put the net contribution to be made by the EU's farmers to financing enlargement at EUR 500 million in 2013.
This amounts to the difference between the additional costs resulting from direct payments for the new Member States and the increase in agricultural expenditure approved by the EU Summit.
As regards the two central strands I have identified in the review, the one that really worries me is the decoupling of aid, as some Members have already mentioned.
In actual fact, this openness bodes extremely well for all those who are advocates of development in the outermost regions, particularly mountain regions.
As always, however, the debate was opened and closed without any progress being made.
The word 'mountain' does not appear in the document we are discussing either, but mountain issues can quite easily be identified in Mr Daul's document.
For example, paragraph 1 of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development's motion for resolution calls for the development of multifunctional farming.
Lastly, paragraph 20 calls upon the Commission to give priority in the distribution pattern to the less-favoured regions, to the regions which are most vulnerable and in need - I would add - not just of development plans but of an investment of trust.
This could be the start of a radical reform which would improve the situation of the mountain regions and all the less-favoured regions, giving them the same opportunities for life and growth as the rest of the Community.
I do not know if I might be permitted to concur in the praise accorded at the meeting here this evening to the chairman of Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Secondly, it does not anticipate possible results following the implementation of paragraph 22 of the Berlin European Council conclusions.
As I also said in my first contribution, the negotiations in each of the three areas mentioned are continuing and will not necessarily be influenced by the fact that the European Council has now set a ceiling for the expenditure up until 2013.
Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Council.
After the WTO Summit in Cancun in September 2003, what will become of the internal and export aid criticised by the line adopted in Doha?
Granting the European Parliament competence for agricultural codecision and giving this House the final say on the agriculture budget, which stipulates that spending for our small farmers would no longer be mandatory, is placing European farmers in the hands of a majority of our fellow Members who, as we all know, are ultra-liberal, in favour of free trade and against small farmers.
The Presidency has already voiced the European Union's disquiet.
The Union expressed its deep concern in a statement on 18 October 2002.
The statement emphasised that North Korea's failure to honour its commitments put the KEDO programme in jeopardy.
I would like to remind you too, that the framework agreement has been the subject of criticism in certain circles in the United States and by the North Koreans themselves.
It seems to me that, above all, we should have sent a clear message - things have changed and nothing will be the same.
The resolution which we are presenting today is built on those premises and is a result of a compromise reached by the major political groups in Parliament.
I would have preferred it to be tougher on North Korea, but it still represents an acceptable compromise between the need to maintain an open dialogue and the necessity to press Pyongyang into giving up its nuclear and missile programmes.
Mr President, the Socialist Group welcomes the statement from the Commission.
We fully and firmly agree with the trilateral statement made by President Bush, Prime Minister Koizumi and President Kim Dae-jung at the APEC Summit meeting at the weekend calling on North Korea to dismantle its admitted uranium enrichment programme in a prompt and verifiable manner and to come into full compliance with all international obligations in conformity with North Korea's recent commitment in the Japan-North Korea Pyongyang Declaration.
Nevertheless, we cannot be entirely blind to the fact that the 1994 framework agreement has not been fulfilled in its entirety by the US either.
Deliveries of heavy fuel oil, the US contribution to KEDO, have, in the past at least, been sporadic.
Most importantly, the US commitment in 1994 to normalise relations, lift the embargo on North Korea - which has been in place for 50 years - and lift the nuclear threat have still not been fulfilled.
In the meantime, I hope that the EU, as the only entity with diplomatic relations with the Republic of Korea, Japan, the US and with the DPRK, will help to initiate such a dialogue, if possible in concert with the other key actor in the region - China.
We must maintain humanitarian aid and continue the training of North Korean technicians in Europe if only to take this opportunity.
Secondly, the meeting scheduled for 11 November 2002 will not now take place and I hope we can move an oral amendment to make the point more general in terms of wanting EU involvement at all levels in these discussions.
Mr President, North Korea's acknowledgement that it has a programme under way to develop nuclear weapons is not only an insult to the credibility of international agreements but also a total defeat for the KEDO project.
The EU believed it could use so-called peaceful civil nuclear power to bribe a totalitarian regime to refrain from developing nuclear weapons.
This nave confidence in nuclear solutions to serious problems has now given rise to a backlash and caused the EU to appear in an embarrassing and ridiculous light.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has maintained right from the beginning that the KEDO project has been badly thought out.
Unfortunately, it appears as if neither the Commission nor the political groups in Parliament that support nuclear power are managing to look the truth in the face, draw the logical conclusions from the KEDO fiasco and abandon the project.
The EU must clearly and openly acknowledge its fatal mistake in joining KEDO and inform other KEDO members that it is withdrawing from the project.
There is no need, however, desperately to cling to so completely ill-conceived and discredited a project as KEDO.
We were preceded by the American Secretary of State, Madeleine Allbright.
All these steps shared the aim of normalising the situation in North Korea through constructive dialogue.
It should be pointed out that since then almost all our Member States as well as the European Union itself have established diplomatic relations with North Korea.
We must react strongly to this deceitful approach adopted by North Korea, which is in flagrant violation of the agreements concluded since 1994.
Pakistan, our ally in the war on terrorism, should also be challenged on its role in this weapons programme, as it allegedly provided an exchange for North Korean missiles to weaponise its own nuclear bomb.
If the DPRK does not agree to reverse its policy and disarm in terms of its nuclear weapons then the whole KEDO contribution by the European Union should be terminated.
Nevertheless, humanitarian aid must continue through the World Food Programme and ECHO.
The European Union is one of the few bodies to have formal relations with this country and must use its leverage and access to its government to resolve this situation satisfactorily.
The European Union, which dedicates a large section of its budget precisely to democratisation initiatives and initiatives seeking to promote human rights and the rule of law, has or is supposed to have a strategic line of upholding democracy as a guarantee of freedoms and of the best possible prospects of prosperity for entire peoples throughout the world.
Our question, Commissioner, is as follows: what contribution does the European Union - the Commission and the Member States - intend to make to the success of this assembly?
The Commission is aware that one Member State has taken a definitive decision in this regard.
EUR 42.6 million will be allocated to related projects in the 29 selected countries.
Mr President, the Community of Democracies is a forum which was created in 2000 and, I am pleased to say, relaunched at the last Transnational Radical Party congress.
The debate is closed.
The standards will apply not only to ships providing international services but also to those operating the main domestic routes.
It is very simple: when ships sustain damage, they must remain accessible to search-and-rescue teams for as long as possible so that the greatest possible number of human lives can be saved.
The IMO, the International Maritime Organisation, naturally became involved very early on in these issues and concluded what is known as the 'SOLAS' agreement in 1990 for a certain height of water to be allowed - but I shall not go into the technical details - stipulating that all ships should comply with this agreement and its standards by 1 October 2010 at the latest.
As you may remember, however, In September 1994, the Estonia disaster occurred in the north of Europe, causing 800 deaths.
Following this disaster, eight Northern European countries, seven EU countries and Norway, worked together to adopt stricter standards than those in the 1990 agreement in order to prevent ships from capsizing.
The question, for the Commission and for us, was knowing what needed to be done once these new standards were introduced, whether they needed to be extended to the whole of the Union or whether a distinction could be made between the north and south of the Union.
In a spirit of compromise that everybody will understand, the Commission, the Council and Parliament have reached an agreement to conclude all of this in the year 2015.
I support Mr Ripoll y Martnez de Bedoya's proposal for a narrower definition of the term 'reduced mobility'.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The same applies to another subject - the return of refugees - to which everyone agrees, but where practice has shown in this respect too that many countries do not deliver what they have promised or do not do what they ought to be doing.
Many fine words have also been uttered in this context, but unfortunately in practice it is shown that corruption continues to occur as far up as at government level, for example the last government in Macedonia.
Another point in my report is the need to gain an insight into what will be the future of Kosovo.
We cannot have the situation where Kosovo continues to exist whilst the Kosovans want something else, but we just hang onto the 1999 UN resolution.
In almost all of the countries, the media play a disappointing role in the establishment of democracy and that must be brought to an end.
In my opinion, the relevant problems are economic and social crises, stagnation and a growing disappointment with the effects of democracy.
This cannot continue; the European Union can no longer afford this.
The budget for the Balkans is falling, from 900 million a few years ago to 500 million in 2005.
These have been successful in southern Europe and I think that the time has come to apply the methodology and the approach of the structural and cohesion funds also to the countries of the Western Balkans.
This will also have to mean that, after the current enlargement by ten countries, the remaining candidate member states and the countries of the Western Balkans will be brought together into one DG, because the problems of Bulgaria and Romania are not essentially any different to those of the Western Balkans.
What we have done up till now has been successful but it is not sufficient for the future.
The Commission and the Council need Parliaments active support in order to achieve the long-term objectives of the process.
Recent elections in south-east Europe have shown that the region has made tremendous progress, although much still remains to be done.
Above all, it is essential to understand how to adopt a more structured approach to the distribution of direct and indirect aid to this sector financed under CARDS.
This is why the Commission fully supports the regulatory policy already approved by the United Nations.
These countries lie at the heart of Mediterranean Europe, and it is therefore in the common interest of all the Community institutions, as well as our duty to the peoples living in the area, to provide the aid, decisions and related measures necessary to help these countries address what we feel are the current fundamental problems: problems in the field of education and training, combating organised crime, and, in particular, the endeavours to achieve democracy.
So our efforts have to be unwavering, they have to take an unwavering approach which avoids controversy and they have to be in keeping with UN resolutions.
Any philosophy of change could give rise to renewed crisis.
Thirdly, it is good that the countries in the area as a whole will soon all be members of the European Union, from Romania to Bulgaria, Austria, Greece and so on; in other words, there will be a positive impact on developments in these countries from all sides.
According to Michael Steiner, UN representative for Kosovo, this city is like a hot potato which the Serbian leaders pass quickly on.
Meanwhile, the local elections of 26 October in Kosovo offered little encouragement as regards the Serbian contribution.
Very sensibly, the original text of this paragraph urges a rapid end to the actual situation whereby the town of Mitrovica does not fall under the authority of UNMIK and the interim government of Kosovo.
It is, however, with some satisfaction that we can consider Albania, a country which has managed to make up for the fraudulent elections held in 2001 by electing a consensus president, something very few people expected, including the Commission.
They have many problems in common.
Some of these have already been mentioned, such as the elections in Macedonia and developments in Albania, although I have to say that I have heard that the consensus reached between the major political groups in Albania is now at breaking point.
You mentioned the debates on enlargement and the debates on the Balkans.
Our efforts to provide these countries with economic and political support are much needed.
We certainly should not put them on the back burner because of the enlargement of the European Union.
One very positive step here has been the creation of the Regional Centre for Combating Transborder Crime in Bucharest, and this centre will be represented at the relevant conference in London on 25 November.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, economic and social cohesion is at the very heart of the European Union.
The current debate is about the European Union of the future, be it a Union of 25 or even 27 Member States.
This Union's commitment to integration will only continue to be credible if there is a corresponding willingness to jointly accept responsibility for the European social model in a spirit of solidarity.
Our starting point has to be the assumption that the public's view of Europe does not depend on their regional and social position and is being tackled as a joint political exercise by all the Member States.
While my report was going through its various stages in this House, I found I received different answers to these questions.
They demand solidarity for their constituency but they are not willing to participate in a wider solidarity.
The truth is that we need to start to plan now if we want to make the first payments to the regions on 1 January 2007.
The worst consequence of this plan and of this short-term thinking would be that it would mean the end of solidarity.
In that case we would have nothing left at all, because we would have no plan and economic and social cohesion would be an empty clich.
I come from an Objective 1 region that would lose its status for statistical reasons if we strictly observed the 75% criterion, and yet I am convinced that generous phasing out would make it possible for that region to solve its development problems.
If we in Parliament establish a cornerstone for the Structural Funds of the EU of the future, with clearly defined Objective 1 regions, we will on the one hand oblige the Commission to follow where we lead and on the other hand we will be issuing a challenge to the Council.
It is essential that, in view of the Commission's preparation of proposals on the future of this policy, we should work towards establishing a consensus between the different institutions involved, as the rapporteur has just explained.
We want to put a joint proposal on the table, one that responds adequately to the key issues already raised by the House concerning the European Unions response to the future of the economic and social problems of both present and future Member States.
Obviously, what is most important is that the economic and social imbalances between the new and the old Member States can be effectively diminished.
Enlargement, however, must not lead to a situation where regional policy in the most disadvantaged regions of the current Member States is wound down.
At the same time differences in living standards on the Union's new external borders must also be reduced.
The northern areas of our neighbour, Norway, are now experiencing vigorous economic development as a result of investment in energy and sound regional policy.
In particular, I feel that it is premature to ask the Commission to produce a proposal on the future of the Objective 2 regions and the future of Community initiatives even before the third report on economic and social cohesion is published, not least in that the time frames necessary for an in-depth analysis to be carried out by December 2003 - Commissioner Barnier's deadline for presenting the report - have not been established and we have not been provided with the necessary information.
We would prefer to be able to take the time necessary to work on reforming cohesion policy, in other words to work according to the time frames specified by the Commission, avoiding, above all, hasty conclusions being drawn which will not benefit the regions and will benefit the new Member States still less.
Lastly, we will vote against paragraphs 16 and 22, for they are repetitions of paragraphs already included in the rapporteur's text.
In this report we have once again emphasised certain points that have already been identified, such as our rejection of any renationalisation of structural policy.
However, we have also managed to clarify some points in this report.
I disagree totally with the previous speaker on this, because I think it is very important for the Commission to make proposals at this stage about how it will move forward with Objective 2.
People are waiting for a signal in Objective 2 regions too, and we cannot just concentrate on Objective 1 in our discussions.
My final point is this: I believe, and my group has also taken a decision to this effect, that for Objective 1 we should neither establish a fixed criterion nor a fixed percentage.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, even if this is just an interim report to be produced every three years, it should be used not just to take stock, but also to give an overview of the next planning period.
It is quite right not to go into detail and not to give precise figures, but the key points need to be identified and central issues need to be resolved in good time.
Another central issue is treating the regions as a reference unit for cohesion policy tasks and not nation-state criteria.
But those regions that will be lifted over the 75% threshold after enlargement, becoming 'statistically wealthy', also need to have a more generous phasing-out arrangement.
In this respect I agree with the rapporteur, who has tabled an amendment on this point.
To close, may I point out that this matter deserves our serious attention, especially in the run up to enlargement, which will obviously exacerbate the take-up problem in that our new partners will also have to deal with difficulties caused by their lack of experience in applying the acquis communautaire.
Differences in levels of prosperity between regions have even increased to some extent.
Furthermore, regional development must be supported by other areas of policy, such as agricultural, taxation and transport policy.
Mr President, I must congratulate the rapporteur on her report as I appreciate and have seen for myself the great effort she has put into this difficult task, even though we disagree on some of the points contained in the document.
It is, at the very least, surprising that reference is made to minimum percentages when there are regions exceeding the 200 GDP level.
The last report demonstrated that whilst it is true that the poorest regions have achieved growth in percentage terms, the richer regions have grown at least as much.
Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this report forms a link between three major processes: the revision of cohesion policy, the reform of the CAP and the completion of the process of unifying and enlarging the Union.
The future of Europe will depend to a large extent on how the three major processes interact, and the extent to which the European Parliament succeeds in influencing these processes will determine the extent to which its role of codecision is a proper political role rather than just a formality.
The debate has only just begun, and I am pleased to say I have just three points to make today.
Firstly, cohesion policy must remain one of the driving forces of the European Union.
Thirdly, the implementing phase of Agenda 2000 must be monitored carefully, not just as regards quantity and expenditure but also as regards quality.
Preparing our regions for enlargement means also and above all using these funds to increase the competitiveness of our human and social capital.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, in this speech, I shall restrict myself to discussing the key political issue underpinning the future of cohesion policy.
This is a key political issue because Europe will only be viable if it is founded on a project of solidarity towards its most disadvantaged regions; the European Union will not succeed on the basis of excessive regional disparities.
By subscribing to the Franco-German agreement on the freezing of common agricultural policy spending until 2013 on the basis of spending in 2006, the last European Council, held in Brussels, makes the assumption that the same principle of freezing could also be applied to funds earmarked for cohesion policy.
At least scenarios of renationalisation, which have been brewing in some countries where cohesion policy is concerned, would be averted.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report upon which we are to vote tomorrow is first and foremost a progress report on cohesion policy.
We must congratulate ourselves on the positive impact of this policy, which has proved crucial to the harmonious development of the Union.
I believe our objective should be to make this policy simpler, more intelligent and more generous.
By more intelligent, I mean that this policy must be flexible and take account of the wide variety of handicaps facing the European regions.
This approach would enable us to develop a cohesion policy that benefits regions whose development is lagging behind, but which is also suited to mountainous regions, sparsely populated regions, and regions with geographical handicaps.
The new regional policy must also be simpler.
Together with Commissioner Barnier and the Member States, we have started to work towards this, but the current exercise is restricted by the framework set by the regulations in force.
The third objective is to make cohesion policy more generous.
I believe that after 2006, if we succeed in coming up with instruments suited to local needs that are easy to use, the budget for these can and should be greater.
The Union must show ambition for the sake of all its citizens when it comes to showing that it is an area of solidarity.
The RETT committee amendments are in line with the conclusions of the Musotto report, particularly on the need for a cohesion policy which will improve existing and future disparities between European regions in an enlarged Europe.
In this context, I would highlight and support Amendment 12 which recognises the need for a generous phasing-out period for those regions which may no longer qualify for Objective 1 support but which may still need this level of funding.
My own peripheral region has received only 10% of all EU funding to Ireland over the past 30 years and is therefore still seriously under-developed in terms of infrastructure.
I cannot, however, support paragraph 16, nor part of paragraph 17.
Finally, in the context of enlargement, the EU must ensure adequate aid for family farmers - the backbone of our rural communities - and, in addition, specific aid to young farmers to ensure the survival of our rural communities and our agricultural sector.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen and rapporteur, I want to thank you for a sound report and an interesting debate.
The closer we get to 2007, the more intensive are the discussions in our regions of what the future will entail.
One of the excellent things about the report is the emphasis it places upon the fact that geographically disadvantaged regions must be given priority in the structural funds of the future.
We know that a very great many regions are very far away from the large markets and have to live with that geographical fact.
I also think that Amendment No 10 from my own group, the Group of the Party of European Socialists, is extremely important, pointing out as it does that indicators other than GDP must govern the use of the structural funds.
Agricultural policy, especially transport policy, must promote regional equality.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
