Cross-border collective copyright management (debate) The next item is the report by Katalin Lévai, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the Commission recommendation of 18 October 2005 on collective cross-border management of copyright and related rights for legitimate online music services (2005/737/EC).
Mr President, honourable Members, I should like, if I may, to thank Mrs Lévai for her report on the Commission recommendation of 18 October 2005 on collective cross-border management of copyright and related rights for legitimate online music services.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Education. - (EL) Mr President, I should like first of all to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, Mrs Lévai, on her excellent cooperation and the outcome of her important work in the report on collective copyright management.
It is a fact that the composition of the committee is an important step towards the future convergence of the various practices in the 27 Member States.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I am now speaking in my capacity as shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the Committee on Legal Affairs.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I am speaking here as shadow rapporteur in the Committee on Legal Affairs on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, we are today debating a difficult and controversial issue.
I believe that increased but also controlled competition in the area of collective management of copyright and related rights in the music sector on the Internet may prove beneficial to all.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (DA) Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Lévai for her constructive cooperation on the report and the EU observer for its useful conference on creative rights.
The network of national societies should be preserved so that they all have access to the global repertoire and everything possible must be done to safeguard cultural diversity, in view of the indispensable contribution made by these national societies via what they do in their respective countries.
In each of our countries, we have transposed the 2001 Directive and safeguarded the status of rightholders.
Written statements (Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (FR) As far as boosting the growth of online music services within Europe is concerned, we agree with the Commission on the fact that the development of these services hinges on a change in the systems of collective management and of the granting of copyright licences at Community level.
Indeed, these improvements have become necessary as a result of the emergence of new services such as Internet radio, streaming and downloading services for which a fee must be paid.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Lévai, and congratulating her on her work on the European Parliament resolution before us today.
The proper development of the European music market calls for a study to be undertaken on the impact of multi-territorial and multi-range licences for online music services and of the effects related to the socio-economic situation of the rightholders.
It is also important to ensure that the European market in online music services is able to develop freely without detriment to European cultural diversity.
