Set aside for year 2008 (debate) The next item is the proposal for a Council regulation, under examination by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, derogating from Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003 establishing common rules for direct support schemes under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers, as regards set aside for year 2008 - C6-0302/2007 -.
With too much rain in certain parts of Europe and with droughts in other parts of Europe, the climatic conditions within our own regions this year have been adverse to cereal production and, with an estimated output of 258 million tonnes, the 2007 harvest is below average.
A compulsory set-aside of the present 10% in the old Member States, the EU-15, is not compatible with the present market situation.
Against this background, the Commission has proposed to set 0% on set-aside for the autumn 2007 harvest and the sowing in spring 2008.
According to our estimates, this will mean extra production within the European Union of between 10 and 17 million tonnes, and I think this will send a positive signal to the sector and, hopefully, also contribute to stabilisation within the grain sector.
The Commission is proposing a set-aside of 0% for 2008 and at the beginning of the marketing year 2008, like I said, the market is characteristically high in price.
We are also seeing China and India taking in unprecedented amounts of food because of their economies increasing and wanting more food.
I recommend to Parliament that we deal with this swiftly.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Madam President, I would first of all like to thank the Commissioner for her presence this morning and now once again at this debate, which was added to the agenda at the last minute.
We share the opinion that this measure might, in a pessimistic scenario, bring at least half of the current 3.89 million hectares back into production and that could represent, in a year with normal climate conditions, additional production of between 5 and 10 million tonnes at least, even though some land is of the less productive variety, which is naturally why the farmers set them aside.
We therefore think that it would be appropriate for the Commission to carry out an impact study as soon as possible so that we are able to have all the relevant factors available for taking the decision which we shall be obliged to take within a year on this same subject. (DE) Madam President, Madam Commissioner, yes, we have worked quickly, but the Commission has also been late in submitting its proposals.
We are asking you in an amendment not just to deal with what you have in mind for 2008, but also to tell us in Parliament how crop rotations are to be arranged with a view to environmental protection.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Parliament ought to see this as a new element, one which opens up a new period of reflection and a new debate on agricultural production in Europe.
I think that the European Union should use the health check on the common agricultural policy to introduce mechanisms that avoid serious deficit situations in the future, if we do not want other global producers to monopolise the international markets. (ES) Madam President, it is true that cereal stocks have decreased in recent years and we have already heard some reasons relating to the current climate - increasing consumption in emerging countries, adverse climate conditions in producer countries or production being reserved for internal consumption in exporting countries.
Finally, abolishing set-aside now will not help us resolve all of the problems at the heart of the CAP review in 2008 and 2009.
On Amendment 8 on export restrictions and the possible introduction of an export tax, I must say that this is not the way we want to follow.
