Roure (PSE), rapporteur. (FR) Madam President, on 14 November in this very Chamber I tabled a report - which Parliament approved - on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on a French initiative with a view to adopting a Convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters.
Today the Council is consulting us once again, this time on a new text of a draft protocol.
Obviously I understand that current circumstances are impelling the European Union to strengthen cooperation as quickly as possible in the fight against terrorism.
Having made these comments, I can of course go along with the Commission and accept that the European Parliament should, in this exceptional case - without a report and in accordance with the urgent procedure - today approve the text which is before it. (Parliament agreed to urgent procedure) The item will be added to Thursday' s voting time.
White paper on reform of European governance The next item is the statement by the Commission on the White Paper on Reform of European Governance.
As you know, the overriding aim of the White Paper on Reform of European Governance is to renew and reinvigorate the institutional triangle, which operates according to the Community method under the present Treaty.
The Commission also supports the work of the Court of Justice to ensure that the European Union is based on the rule of law and respect for human rights.
The 'call-back' option is too limited, in that it merely allows Parliament to partially change the current system - which, we all know, is seriously deficient - but without making good the deficiencies.
However, the paper also states very clearly that the terms and limits of the Commission' s executive role must be laid down in the new legislation that you will discuss on the basis of the Commission' s final proposal.
We are expecting a major contribution from the Member States' advisory committees as well as from this House.
Some have suggested that this would undermine the role of Parliament.
All this will improve the way in which the Commission exercises its right of initiative.
In any case, the Treaty will remain unchanged, all the decisions will continue to be taken by the appropriate institutions in accordance with the current democratic rules.
The White Paper thus opens the way for an inter-institutional dialogue on how all the institutions can improve their consultation.
I also understand there is some anxiety about the new forms of regulation proposed in the White Paper.
The creation of regulatory agencies - which can only take technical decisions on a case-by-case basis - will, of course, need a legislative act.
So the White Paper proposes, for the first time, to involve Parliament in the complex process of introducing the open method of coordination.
These forms of inter-governmental cooperation on matters that lie on the fringes of Community law must, of necessity, follow a logic that is compatible with the way the institutional triangle works.
Governance is already a part of that debate.
Changing the way the institutions work (which is the subject of the White Paper) and changing the institutions themselves (which is the subject of the future proposals to amend the Treaty) are obviously two different issues which are, however, closely related.
That is why I have said that the debate on the options set out in the White Paper on Reform of European Governance is the first phase in the debate on the future of the Union.
I would therefore welcome dialogue of different sorts between the European institutions, if necessary by setting up a joint working group Commission, Parliament and Council working group to look in greater detail at our proposals on governance.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, ladies and gentlemen, in the 51 years of its existence, since the beginning of the European unification process and since the Robert Schuman Declaration, the European Union can lay claim to a considerable success story.
In addition to establishing the common market, the single currency and the beginnings of a common foreign and security policy, we have also become an area of peace, justice and security, and in this we are a model for many regions of the world.
These questions of course provide the basis for the Commission's White Paper of 25 July of this year, and we are delighted that the Commission President, Mr Prodi, is here to discuss this issue with us for the second time today and has just offered us cooperation within an interinstitutional working party.
As I see it, there are a few more questions that we need to consider in some depth before we will find the appropriate answers.
We need to address all these questions in our interinstitutional working party.
Firstly, you have today clearly declared your faith in a form of parliamentary democracy that of course has important consequences for our work as a whole, and in particular for the role of 'civil society' .
That is another of those rather nebulous concepts rather like 'governance' , but 'governance' is used in contexts where there are no parliamentary democracies or cannot be, as in the case of 'global governance' .
The key point on which there are still differences between us is the issue of alternative forms of regulation.
Mr President, I hope I have understood you correctly in understanding that you will not present anything to the Laeken European Council unless it has been discussed with this Parliament beforehand and the views of this House have been sought.
The Commission has executive powers, but legislative competence is a matter for the Parliament and the Council and we absolutely insist on that!
We are all painfully aware of this, and I am very pleased to find such a large measure of self-criticism in the Commission' s White Paper.
The new rules adopted earlier this year in accordance with Article 255 are a first step on the way.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, almost everyone who has spoken has asked - as you yourself have also done - why the EU's image is not what we expect, and why people have ever less faith in it.
You will have to address the issue of a European democracy and the position of the Commission in this process.
I believe, Mr Prodi, that the public quite rightly expects two things: the first is transparency in decision making and the second is clarity as regards political responsibility for decisions.
The White Paper talks about a cumbersome system of almost 700 consultative bodies supporting the Commission.
A second point in the White Paper that I would like to mention is the 'culture of consultation and dialogue' .
I think that the Commission on the one hand and the Council and Parliament on the other would be well advised to jointly consider how a new culture of consultation and dialogue can be achieved in terms of greater involvement for civil society.
I think it would be better if the Commission did not propose a code of conduct on minimum standards for consultation for itself, but rather if we could jointly consider whether there is not some scope for all three institutions to make a joint commitment under an Interinstitutional Agreement.
Madam President, President Prodi, I speak on behalf of the radical Members.
Mr Prodi, what impression do you think the citizens of Europe can have if, after the attacks on New York and Washington, they have seen Chirac, Blair, Fischer and all the European leaders marching off to Washington, and then the President-in-Office and President Prodi a good last, or nearly so - through no fault of their own, of course - and it even seems on Monday - and that is saying something - even Berlusconi may go?
It is interesting to note that they were the only people who were asked whether or not they wanted the Treaty.
The way to address the democratic deficit is to give people a chance to express their opinions.
An effective European democracy requires discussions across linguistic and national borders, together with an education system and media adapted in the light of these.
The proposed multi-level democracy can contribute to legitimacy and greater confidence in the institutions, but it must not degenerate into a democracy characterised by bargaining or corporatism and which is so often marked by corruption.
In my capacity of shadow rapporteur for the PSE Group for the White Paper on Reform of European Governance in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would now like to explain our position from my point of view.
We welcome your proposal for efficient governance by setting up autonomous agencies, the proposals facilitating co-regulations and self-regulations, the will to consult representatives from specific sectors and the proposal on citizens' and the civil society' s right to information, participation and consultation.
Not only should we consult the sectors about the decision-making process.
In certain cases, even social non-profit organisations could also play a role in the implementation.
The dialogue with social actors must be concrete and yield results, and must not become a talk shop which thrives on repetition.
The PSE Group, also in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is now offering to break this cycle.
In the G8 debate here in this House, I pointed out that, while globalisation is proceeding apace in all fields, it is hard for it to involve politics, which thus remains inadequate and slow compared with what is happening in other sectors.
The European Union project is, of course, still the only concrete example that can meet these demands, but it has not yet expressed its democratic potential to the full.
But sometimes it can produce ridiculous results, for example when environmental laws are too detailed to allow sensible local discretion in adapting common principles to local situations.
The water problems of the Island of Islay or the Glen of Strathspey are hardly comparable with those of the Rhine basin.
A one-size-fits-all approach to water law can have absurd results, for example in respect of the Scotch malt whisky industry, despite its established environmental friendliness over 200 years.
The White Paper says, as did Commissioner Prodi this morning, that the Commission will consult regional and local government early in the policy-formation process and will seek to legislate so that local knowledge is effectively deployed in the implementation process.
Many of us had expected that the White Paper would contain a far stronger statement, especially in relation to the so-called partner regions exercising their own constitutional powers of legislation.
Europe will fail to regain or retain the affections of the citizens of the Union - and that includes the people in Scotland and our counterparts in many similar lands such as Catalonia, Flanders, Wales, Galicia, the Basque country - unless the regional and local governments with whom people there finally identify are fully respected partners in the governance of Europe.
We are the same size and population as many of the existing Member States, the same as many of the adjoining States and we are bigger than quite a few of them.
It is often said that big, important regions of large countries do better in the Union than small Member States.
Perhaps attention could be paid to those languages in which the word 'gouvernance' , first used by Sir John Fortescue in England in the fifteenth century when the English political class spoke French, is less clearly understood than in English and French.
However, as you know - and you drew attention to this in your speech - there is concern in Parliament about giving respect to the institutional triangle.
The most effective lobby groups do their job, which is not to represent society at large - that is this elected Parliament's duty - but to represent their own vested interest.
So I am afraid the fact that you drew attention to this concern has not allayed our fears and we will continue to insist that it is we, the elected Members of this House, who represent the interests of society at large and you should not set up groups meeting directly with the Commission, evolving policy and then handing it down to us to rubber-stamp.
As regards your paper, the European Parliament and the Commission should be partners in the construction of Europe, not rivals.
Mr Prodi, I would like to thank you for making it clear here today that you will not be bringing forward any proposals to amend the constitutional position unless you have the consent of the European Parliament and without a clear vote by Parliament as a directly elected body.
That is more than we have been told so far, and I am delighted about that.
No one in this House wants framework proposals, but if you want them, then you must make sure they go hand in hand with proper democratic measures that do not adversely affect Parliament's rights.
You say that you want more modern measures such as voluntary commitments; no one in this House wants that.
You also said that the White Paper opens up the way for an interinstitutional debate.
Mr President, I have three points.
Firstly, this paper is slightly more modest than its title suggests.
When you first titillated us with the prospect of presenting this White Paper over a year ago, we were all very excited at the idea of having some great constitutional blueprint.
In fact, you have very wisely produced a paper on good administration rather than a blueprint on governance or constitutional government as a whole, and that pragmatic and focused approach has much to commend it.
My final point is one that you touch upon quite politely in the White Paper.
I will be less polite: we can do as much as we like at European level - in Strasbourg and Brussels - to improve administration and governance and make our decisions more comprehensible, legitimate and understandable.
However, as long as national political institutions and national political cultures remain frozen in the 19th-century mould and pretend that either the EU does not exist or is some far-off spaceship, we will never make great advances in this honourable enterprise of improving governance.
Governance can only be built brick by brick from the bottom, from the ground floor, from our nations and regions.
Parliament does not think it is a bad idea for the Commission to set up all the consultative bodies it wants, that it should meet with all the non-governmental organisations it wishes, that it should consult everyone through the Internet, or that it should talk to all citizens on a personal level.
This seems like a good idea to us and we should probably do the same thing.
What worries us is the second part of the White Paper; or to be more precise, the proposals to improve Community regulations.
Article 6 of the Treaty makes reference to national constitutional principles.
In the case of the European institutions there are two such bodies: the Parliament, directly elected, and the Council, comprised of Ministers responsible to their own national Parliaments.
I hope that the Commission, before putting forward any proposal to the Laeken European Council on improving Community regulations, enters into close contact with Parliament with the aim of listening to our point of view and in this way conveying to the Laeken European Council the Parliament' s concerns and interests in this matter.
Mr President, Mr Prodi, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the Commission's White Paper on European Governance in some ways comes at a bad time, and in other ways at a good one.
Your White Paper is a contribution to that added value, Mr Prodi.
Against this background, I particularly welcome those proposals in the Commission's White Paper that aim for a systematic dialogue at regional and local level, at a more active role for the Committee of the Regions, and the proposal that from 2002 onwards there should be an annual report on the implementation of the Amsterdam Protocol on Subsidiarity and Proportionality.
The division of tasks between the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament must be clear, just as a balance between the Member States, the regions and the EU needs to be struck under their institutional triangle.
It is obvious that the European Parliament and the national parliaments should play a central role in the public debate on the future of Europe.
There are many proposals in the White Paper that cause nobody any problems, but issues like co-regulation and the delivery of public policy by external agencies do cause problems.
We need to ensure, however, that when we reform those processes - whether it be issues concerning co-regulation or external agencies - we see democratic control as the key factor, democratic control in a democratic framework.
Finally, if there is a criticism that has to be made of the Commission, and I am glad it has realised the importance of this criticism, it is that its White Paper did not address the role of Parliament.
That represented a fundamental failure in the early discussions between the Commission and Parliament.
Mr President, Mr Prodi, the White Paper calls on Parliament to enhance its role in feeding the views of its electors into the political debate.
You say that you want more transparency and consultation, but whom are you excluding and whom are you including?
Equally we all know that the none of the institutions are held in high regard.
I say to my colleagues in this Chamber that one thing the people of Europe do not understand is why we oscillate between Brussels and Strasbourg.
It is up to us to listen to some of the problems that people express to us.
I was disappointed in President Prodi's White Paper.
After all, the ombudsman is in the front line of dealing with the complaints and concerns of citizens.
That means that we must have an enforceable code common to all of the institutions.
The Committee on Petitions has asked the Ombudsman to report to us on the problems that citizens are presenting to him.
We want to listen to citizens.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Prodi for having clarified in his speech certain points which, from a reading of the White Paper, could have given rise to misunderstandings.
As we all know, what really lies at the basis of this deliberation is the realisation that the long-term credibility of European integration is undermined by the lack of mutual recognition between public structures and civil society.
We therefore ask for an Interinstitutional Agreement on this, which will lead to a division of labour and, at the same time, collaboration between Commission, Parliament and Council.
Something that you, Mr Prodi, have mentioned is therefore important: the need to specify a call-back mechanism for secondary legislation which can safeguard and strengthen the role of the European Parliament.
If I could try and summarise this in two sentences, it would be to say 'yes' to better information, consultation and more systematic consultation of non-governmental actors and so on, but 'no' to delegating decisions to a sort of cosy deal between the Commission and industry.
In other words, there is considerable sympathy in Parliament for much of what the Commission intends to achieve in its White Paper but genuine concern about what might be the real effects of some of the proposals therein.
The content was absolutely identical: in Washington we spoke with a single voice, and after the discussions we left President Bush with the European position, which was a highly operational position, with specific areas for collaboration in justice and internal affairs and the financial problem of money recycling, fields in which we proposed lines of action on which Europe should come together.
I believe part of the citizens' anxieties derive from the complexity of our working procedures and the fact that they are hard to understand, problems that the White Paper attempts to address - partially, at least - through enhancements to the democratic system and transparency and through greater efficiency and speed in decision-making, while fully respecting or rather increasing the prerogatives of Parliament.
I confirm, then, at the end of this short debate, that we intend to arrive at a clarification of our respective functions, but no one questions the role of the European Parliament and the Council in holding political control over the Commission' s executive work.
I also confirm - and here I must confess that the misunderstanding arose from a mistake by the Commission, something it expressed poorly - that the Commission does not intend to take any decision, either prior to Laeken or at any other time, without first listening to Parliament.
The idea of organising a joint Parliament-Council-Commission working party to establish a code of institutional behaviour in the framework of the existing rules is a path I think we should explore.
The Commission is willing to examine this path.
With all honesty and without any ulterior motive, I wonder whether the Council will be willing to do so; we, in any case, are.
The call-back proposal apparently improves the situation, but in fact it makes the system more confusing because it makes it more difficult to separate our functions and see the difference between them.
I think this is an area we should focus on in a future meeting of the bodies we have proposed, in order to clear up this point: we must work together for a system in which the Commission executes and the European Parliament and the Council exercise political control before measures are adopted.
If there is always this possibility of call-back, Parliament will obviously end up taking on a strictly executive function.
If we really define Europe as the Europe of subsidiarity, we must be consistent to some degree at least, and on this I have no reservations at all.
On the problem of consulting with civil society, if we read the White Paper carefully there is no expropriation of Parliamentary, democratically elected bodies.
On the contrary, there is a different discourse: whereas now civil society is consulted privately and indirectly, we are proposing that such consultation should be transparent and in the open, so that everyone can see where particular ideas and positions arose or where certain suggestions come from.
I say this quite clearly because you will never have heard the Commission proposing, for instance, to bring civil society into the Convention in a role involving decision-making aspects.
We want a more parliamentary democracy in which the role of Parliament is clear and precise, but also more efficient, one in which the executive role is not continually called into debate by procedures.
I shall repeat the sentence which is the key to the latter part of my speech: we have never said - and I confirm this today - that civil society can play a decision-making role.
We simply want consultation to take place more transparently, more clearly and more comprehensively.
This implies managing migratory flows effectively and it also means that we need to take measures to prevent the asylum procedure from being abused.
Secondly, the evaluation of Tampere, which will be carried out at the end of our presidency, should allow us to identify the areas in which progress has been made in the field of justice and home affairs, but also to propose measures with a view to remedying any shortcomings revealed as soon as possible, and we have to admit that there are some.
I must in addition thank Commissioner Vitorino who always puts forward very sensible proposals, but has also proven to be very open-minded in his concern to make progress and who is willing for his proposals to be challenged if this moves the issue forward at European level.
With these two points in mind, the Belgian Presidency wanted even now to create the necessary political impetus to provoke a substantial debate on issues such as establishing a common and balanced immigration policy and setting up a European asylum system.
In other words, we are working with our colleagues in this presidency to ensure that the Council of Ministers is once again able to play its role as architect of the European edifice and thus focus on settling a number of political disputes.
Its legislative work should lead to visible operational activity and cooperation on practical matters between the law enforcement agencies and the immigration authorities.
The right to asylum is, of course, a priority for all of our countries.
The efforts which we are making to meet our international commitments cannot be challenged or called into question.
However, it is also apparent to all of us that large numbers of people are using this procedure as a way of entering the territory of our Member States for reasons other than those laid down in the Geneva Convention.
Bearing in mind the timetable set by the Commission scoreboard and the Commission communication on asylum which provides for a two-stage approach, the presidency has decided to focus as a priority on the three following directives: harmonising the common minimum conditions for the reception of asylum-seekers; the Community instrument to succeed the Dublin Convention and harmonising procedures for granting and withdrawing refugee status.
The first two documents have had their first reading, which I might describe as encouraging and from which it was clear that Member States wish to make progress in this field as quickly as possible.
It is clear that the diversity of the national systems in place in our Member States means that any moves to bring them into line with each other will indisputably and necessarily require significant efforts to be made on all sides.
Our response to this issue has to be a joint one, based on solidarity.
Europe needs to toe the same political line where admitting refugees onto its territory is concerned and needs to act together to stamp out the underground activity which this provokes.
Europe needs to work along these lines to improve conflict prevention, and also, through its cooperation programmes, to establish better living conditions throughout the world.
Organising information campaigns in the countries of origin should make it possible to combat illegal immigration, but also to thwart the plans of criminal organisations which are at the origin of this modern form of slavery and which do not hesitate to have recourse to any means, in particular violence and terror, to achieve their ends.
This package of measures can and must range from measures to protect victims to police-related measures such as reinforcing checks at Europe' s current and future external borders, while safeguarding the possibility for those who are fleeing persecution to find asylum in our countries.
Finally I agree that we need to draw a clear distinction in the measures which we put in place between asylum-seekers looking for international protection and those who want to enter the European Union for other reasons, which are incidentally sometimes legitimate.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before drawing to a close, I should like to remind you of our desire to work in full institutional collaboration with you, the European Parliament, within the rules laid down in the treaties, in the hope that together we will be able to take further steps towards creating an area of freedom, security and justice which will benefit Europe and the people of Europe.
Since the tragic events of 11 September, the European Union has been confronted with a new political agenda in the fields of justice and home affairs.
The European Council of 21 September sent out a very clear message to us.
We should adopt as a matter of urgency the measures necessary to reinforce the internal security of our Member States and their nationals while making the fight against terrorism a priority.
At the same time, however, the European Council of 21 September emphasised that neither should we stop working on other issues set out in the Treaty of Amsterdam and thus towards our objective of safeguarding and developing an area of freedom, security and justice.
I have always stressed in these debates here with the European Parliament, but also with the Council, that we need common immigration and asylum policies more than ever.
The relevance of both the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Tampere conclusions has been repeatedly reaffirmed.
I am convinced that the public genuinely expects, and even demands, the addition of European value to national policies whose limitations are becoming ever more apparent, whether they be security policies or policies to protect civil liberties.
To achieve an objective of this kind and identify the European added value which we can bring to national policies, I believe that we should take into account both the security imperatives and the respect for values which are the common defining values of our European Union, including the freedom of movement which is guaranteed by the Schengen Agreement.
The Council has asked the Commission to evaluate its proposals on asylum and immigration in the light of the terrorist attacks in the United States of America.
As the Minister emphasised just now, it is true that the slow progress and the difficulties which we have encountered on certain dossiers could cast serious doubt on our ability to take substantial decisions within the very strict deadlines in the Commission timetable.
This new momentum should benefit all aspects of our cooperation on justice and home affairs, provided that the Member States recognise that it is impossible to have European legislation which is a faithful copy of fifteen national laws and that they will each have to give some ground in the search for a common solution from which they will all benefit.
In some cases we have even anticipated them and several of your requests are already taken into account in our proposals on the legal status of long-term residents and on admission for employment purposes, or again in our communication of last July which followed on from the one of November 2000 and went into more detail on some of the guidelines.
In other cases, we are preparing to follow them up, for example in the communications which I intend to propose to the Commission for adoption in the coming months, the first of which concerns the fight against illegal immigration and the second repatriation policies and external border checks.
I also share your concern about the need to develop practical proposals to build a real partnership between the Union and the countries of origin and transit.
I should also insist on the fact that a genuine European policy on immigration and asylum will not exist - over and above the legislative framework - unless national policies also converge in practice and in pursuit of common objectives.
This, then, is the aim of the Commission's proposed open coordination policy, which is similar to the method already used - incidentally with success - for employment, for example.
An open coordination method of this kind seems to me to have the advantages of flexibility and transparency as well as respecting subsidiarity, while providing a powerful incentive to harmonise legislation and national practice - even spontaneously I would say - and being a good indicator of the areas in which Community intervention is really essential.
The Member States will be invited to draw up national reports every year in which they will have to take stock of the progress which they have made in implementing these common guidelines.
In July, we put forward a first set of guidelines concerning the management of migratory flows, the admission of economic migrants, partnership with third countries and the integration of third-country nationals into our societies.
The Commission hopes that the Council and the European Council will give these new guidelines their blessing so that implementation can start immediately and a first complete round be conducted in the course of next year.
First of all, asylum is a right which is guaranteed and regulated by international instruments and confirmed by the European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
In the meantime, it would seem to be essential to endeavour to improve the quality of initial decisions, as recommended in our proposal on asylum procedures.
What we do have is a genuine policy to manage migratory flows at both national and European level.
And the terms of reference would appear to me to be obvious.
A dialogue with the countries of departure is necessary and it is important to take into account the different types of immigration with which we are faced.
Finally, the credibility of a proactive immigration policy must be consolidated by an effective campaign to combat illegal immigration and the trafficking in human beings which is associated with it.
This mutual tolerance and respect will be one of the keys to social balance and cultural progress in our European societies.
I should like to thank the European Parliament for helping to enrich this debate, which I sincerely hope will be brought to a positive conclusion.
As Mr Duquesne implied in his contribution, if the recent happenings have shown us anything, it is that we cannot turn a blind eye to events around the world and hope that they will go away.
The problems of people wanting asylum, the situation and the plight of the people of poor and troubled countries all over the world are our concerns and they manifest themselves on our doorsteps, on our shores and in our parliaments if we do not address them.
So there can be no more appropriate time for countries to be working together to confront these humanitarian challenges.
I congratulate the EU Heads of Government for having brought asylum into the Community competence and setting a progressive agenda at Tampere.
I congratulate the Commission on these proposals, which have started the debate on how a common asylum policy should be shaped.
In recent years it sometimes seemed that EU countries were competing to become the least attractive to potential asylum seekers.
Governments must make concerted efforts to help create peace in the troubled parts of the world, however difficult, and to increase aid to developing countries - strong measures that in time will work towards countering the pressures that force people to migrate.
It is for the same reasons that we must press ahead with the enlargement of the European Union.
As Commissioner Verheugen said recently, we cannot ask ourselves the question: can we afford enlargement of the European Union?
In committee, many centre-right and right-wing Members voted against my report in whole or in part.
I challenge those Members who are sitting opposite today, not to just give a prepared speech or ignore what I am saying now but to tell us why they are opposing certain parts of it and why they want to diminish the rights of a fair appeal, which is Amendments Nos 6 and 8 by Mr Schmitt.
To those - perhaps the British Conservatives - who will vote against this report in its entirety, if they were here I would ask them to explain to Parliament how we can address the current asylum situation in Europe without Europe-wide policies.
They must recognise that this is a global issue and one that cannot be dealt with on an individual basis in each country.
I thank my own group staff for their hard work and I pay tribute to the NGOs that have contributed valuable ideas.
I commend the report to Parliament.
I would like to express my sincere thanks for the extremely constructive and positive cooperation between the wide variety of political groups in this House, which made it possible to create a broad basis for a new approach to immigration into the European Union on economic grounds.
What is at stake here is controlling the immigration of workers and maintaining social, economic and political stability in the European Union.
However, in view of the events of 11 September, we also need increased vigilance when it comes to the hospitality, aid and freedoms offered by the Union, to make sure that these are not abused by individual elements to breach the security of Europe's citizens or of the world as a whole.
It is evident that when it comes to immigration the European Union can only take on certain tasks and that a great deal must remain a matter for the Member States.
At EU level it is a question of determining conditions for the entry and residence of these migrants and drawing up a coherent system for granting visas, of regulating the ability of third country nationals to move between Member States and the introduction of measures to counter trafficking in and smuggling of human beings and illegal immigration, and also cooperation and information campaigns in and with the countries of origin.
In the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights and Defence Policy to this report, however, a number of recommendations were made which, precisely against the backdrop of 11 September, are very pertinent indeed.
This Parliament has often called for a common and unambiguous policy on evaluating whether or not countries are safe.
It is not acceptable that some Member States should declare countries safe, therefore refuse to receive refugees and asylum seekers, while other countries do.
The security services and embassies of our Member States should join forces in this respect.
And they certainly do not work well with the Member States.
A second observation pertains to the aid to those countries that receive large groups of refugees.
In principle, it is better for people who flee to remain in the vicinity of their own country, so that they can return quickly.
Finally, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy would like to point at the need to be a lot more pro-active in terms of conflict prevention.
We would then, at least, be able to support his report.
Mr President, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy welcomes the Commission' s communication on Community immigration policy and unanimously saw fit to recommend the inclusion of a set of measures based on five premises: One, to take on Europe' s shared historic responsibility for this problem.
Two, to consider immigration as a positive and irreversible phenomenon.
Two, to promote multiculturalism, respect and positive regard for the contribution immigrants bring to our society and economic development.
Three, to speed up the legalisation of all immigrants and in this way fight against the mafias involved in the illegal trafficking of people.
The President-in-Office of the Council told us in all honesty that Council is at present rather confused about asylum and immigration policies.
That is to say that immigration and asylum policies, at this moment in time, appear on the one hand in the Treaty establishing the European Community and yet there is no clear Community competence in the field of asylum and immigration.
Also, it is very strange that the Heads of State and Government in Tampere made grandiose statements about a European immigration policy, but we do not know if these will actually be converted into Community Law.
We, in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, have highlighted the inconsistencies between the declarations by the Heads of State and Government in Tampere and the commitments given in the Community Treaties.
I think that the Conference on immigration, which the President-in-Office of the Council informed us would take place within the next two weeks and at which I think there will be significant participation by Members of the European Parliament, will be an opportunity for the three Community institutions - Parliament, the Council and the Commission - to formulate, or to at least start to formulate, the need to give a Community legal basis to the problem of immigration, for, in this case, we have a genuine Community-wide problem.
With regard to immigration we cannot talk of subsidiarity.
The problem of immigration is, at this moment, common to all European countries, and Commissioner Vitorino, in carrying out the work on the Commission communication on a Community immigration policy, is moving in the right direction.
In many of our countries they are crucial to agricultural production and many major companies employ third-country nationals in senior executive posts.
Yet there is still an attitude around that we are doing such people a favour by allowing them to enter the EU to support our economy and our social security system.
Let us be honest: we want them to help maintain our standard of living.
The implementation of the Article 13 directives on anti-discrimination is also crucial.
Business tells us that recruitment needs to be made easier and more flexible at all skill levels.
My political group has tabled amendments relating to that human factor.
We have also to recognise the fact that some migrants will wish to stay and settle.
This is important in terms of continuity and stability for individuals, society and business.
The detailed reasons for this are to be found in the 28 pages of the Commission communication.
The Commission recognises that pressures to migrate will continue and that regulated immigration can be advantageous for the EU, for the immigrants themselves and for their countries of origin.
Overall, a long-term immigration policy can reduce the pressure from illegal immigration, from trafficking in human beings, from illegal employment and from the economic exploitation of migrants.
My own conclusion is therefore that in its present form the Evans report is irresponsible.
It is evident that there is a majority in this House that is not yet mature enough to be given such responsibility.
Mr Evans, if you are advocating an extension of the right of asylum here, then I would ask you what steps your own party, the Labour Party in the United Kingdom, has taken in this direction in recent years?
I can tell you that it has certainly not dealt with things in this way.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to be quite explicit about this, and it is obvious in any case: if we try to standardise every detail of the right of asylum across Europe in future, we will be unable to achieve agreement on this in the Council of Ministers.
Mr President, Europe is experiencing tension between low population growth and a genuine demand for manpower in the labour market, on the one hand, and a population that is distrustful of immigration on the other.
Faced with this situation, political decision-makers can react in two ways: either by exploiting people' s fears to their own advantage, at least in the short term, or by attempting to manage the different aspects of immigration as best they can, bravely explaining the reasons for this phenomenon, the benefits it brings our societies, its more problematic aspects and the policies that are necessary.
The communication discusses, and the report also focuses on, the external and internal causes of immigration, the need for codevelopment policies and a new partnership with the countries of origin, a common European legislative framework to organise entry in a fair, transparent and straightforward way, residency and integration, which to me means rights.
Lastly, the report speaks, and we shall be discussing this here in detail when we see the legislative proposals, of establishing new immigration policies in the twenty-first century for a new society and a new economy, that cannot simply be a rehash of guest worker policies from the industrial societies of the 1960s.
The situation at Sangatte, near Calais, has featured often on television screens in my home country in recent months.
The UK can reflect on why so many people wish to come to our country and especially to my city, London.
I like to think, at least in part, that this is a compliment to our free and diverse society, but we cannot just have an open door, and maybe the French authorities need to reflect on whether their system could be improved.
If we think, as we do, that women's human rights in Afghanistan are grossly denied, we must take account of that in deciding asylum claims.
Thus, instead of ineffective, inappropriate immigration policies which make illegal immigration an inherent part of the system, they propose a flexible approach with provisions for managing flows and integrating third-country nationals.
It is regrettable that our rapporteur on immigration should have focused on exploiting the management of migratory flows for the economic and demographic ends of the countries in the Union, without showing concern for the human factor.
It is the Member States' duty to take the necessary measures to ensure that all European residents are fully integrated; they achieve this by making sure that everyone has the same rights, including political ones.
A great many refugees - a great many people who have every right to be recognised as such - wait for months or years without receiving aid, deprived of work, gradually sliding towards illegality and often sucked into areas of organised and other crime.
It is therefore necessary to shorten these excessively long time periods.
I mean that the notion of a safe country must be a relative assumption, because many refugees flee from a safe country because they are personally persecuted.
This notion must not, therefore, be an absolute notion, but the conditions to which the individual refugees have been subjected - in other words, the conditions that have led them to flee to another country - should be examined on a case-by-case basis, and they may lead to the above-mentioned notion of a safe third country being overturned.
Now more than ever, as the rapporteur has stressed, it is essential to reformulate Community immigration policy: not just aseptic rules allowing or forbidding entry, but a broader and more responsible approach based above all on economic and demographic assessments and evaluations of social and cultural integration.
We therefore need to lay down a strategy for a sustainable immigration policy in which national and local institutions can play a major part in using objective criteria to identify occupational needs and the availability of jobs, accommodation, social services and training for all those who ask to come and live and work in our Member States.
Above all, Europe cannot confine itself to taking a passive role and attitude towards immigration as if it were just a traffic policeman directing traffic.
Their desperation is such that there are mothers who leave their own children and come to our countries in order to earn something for them.
Europe must choose to play a strong, responsible, political role, aware that behind the policy choices to be made regarding immigration there lies the possibility of also being a player in the serious international crisis we are going through.
In conclusion, Mr President, we must be aware that well regulated immigration can bring great benefits to the European Union, to the immigrants themselves and to their countries of origin.
But we must be wary of the demagogy of those who propose too permissive an immigration policy, a policy that would encourage Europe to open its borders indiscriminately, reduce controls and extend the right to asylum to an absurd degree, but then to selfishly close our eyes - as we have been doing for years - towards what is happening in the Middle East and the southern countries, as if it had nothing at all to do with us.
The common asylum and immigration policy is being used first and foremost as an engine for homogenising countries' extremely different legal traditions by creating an area of freedom, security and justice that is the crucial link in the European superstate.
The loser in this disagreeable game is democracy, and the benefit for refugees is doubtful unless one is a general in Saddam Hussein' s army.
Mr President, the Commission communication on a Community immigration policy is extremely disappointing.
I am talking about the written communication, because both the oral statement which Commissioner Vitorino has just made and that given by the Council were very interesting and much more balanced than what we are accustomed to hearing in this House, and they give us hope that there will be a change in policy following the attacks of 11 September.
The written communication focuses on legal immigration, but - apart from a few allusions - it minimises or forgets illegal immigration and the essential fact that today one in every two people emigrating to the industrialised world does so illegally.
Of course, I am aware that papers have already been tabled on illegal immigration, in particular on trafficking in human beings and on the liability of hauliers, but these are specific texts, tabled, moreover, for the most part by Member States by virtue of their right of initiative, which they still have for the time being.
The Commission has just announced that it is going to table further papers following the attacks of 11 September.
In the meantime, however, if anyone wants to read a good document which clearly sets out the real problems associated with immigration and their possible solutions, they have to refer not to the Commission communication which is being examined today, but to the strategy paper on asylum and immigration, the amended version of which was tabled by the Austrian Presidency on 19 November 1998 - yes, I did say 1998.
A fundamental debate is taking place about asylum and immigration in Europe.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you mentioned the concept of 'fortress Europe' .
A couple more examples: by adopting the concept of the safe third country, we in Germany have been able to reduce the number of asylum-seekers from some 450 000 to well under 100 000.
Mr President, notwithstanding the events of 11 September, the Commission communication on asylum basically remains not only appropriate but more necessary than ever.
This effort must not only involve the European dimension, however, but also cooperation with third countries, specifically with the asylum seekers' countries of origin.
The creation of a space of freedom, security and justice will inevitably involve the need for the mutual recognition of judgments.
Mr President, this communication, for which Commissioner Antnio Vitorino is responsible, is making a timely appearance on the agenda.
On the basis of the framework defined in Tampere, we are committed to create a common policy in the field of asylum, which I am sure will have the support of the Council and of Parliament.
Through a joint effort by the Community institutions and civil society we will achieve a platform of understanding, so that by 1 May 2004 the objective outlined by the European Council will be complied with.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate Commissioner Vitorino on the immigration policy that the European Commission has presented to this Parliament.
The proposal to agree common admission conditions for migrants and to set up, in addition and alongside this, a policy instrument whereby Member States indicate target figures for work migration, receives the support of the ELDR Group.
Secondly, the immigration system must be flexible.
The European Parliament is a very important institution, which I will always continue to support.
Finally, I should like to thank our colleague, Mr Evans, for his painstaking work.
Mr Pirker poses some complex questions, but the answers are inadequate and even dangerous.
After a time, it says, immigrants adopt the birth-rate pattern of the host country.
For him, immigrants are like Kleenex: you use them and when you no longer need them you throw them away.
Faced with an issue of this complexity, instead of saying that the tragedy in Dover opened our eyes to the possible consequences of immigration, we would have preferred him to consider taking measures against the hauliers who are the real proponents of modern slavery and against the slum landlords ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic events in New York have, it seems to me, made us free to discuss certain subjects which have, until now, been taboo.
It is not the immigrants who are guilty, it is those who bring them here for economic reasons, and it may perhaps surprise you to learn that, on this point, I agree in part with what our colleague, Mr Sylla, has just said.
If the people of Europe abandon to others their duty to give life to new generations, they also abandon their right to live as free nations on the territory of their ancestors.
Quite apart from this, I would question the legal basis of possible proposals by the Commission.
I concur with the opinion by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market on this.
A final sensitive issue I should like to draw attention to is the prevention of migration flows of citizens from third countries within the European Union.
Social integration of economic migrants in the Member States is, as he stressed, absolutely essential if we are to avoid social tensions.
I also believe that in view of all the measures proposed it is important to give the Member States the option of fine-tuning the entry and residence of third country nationals in accordance with the requirements of their own labour markets and demographic trends, because these questions in particular can only be dealt with at local level.
The cases in Dover and on our own Andalusian coast are clear examples of this.
However, illegal immigration of this nature is fertile ground for the social exclusion of this immigrant population and for the exploitation of their labour, in addition to the outbreaks of xenophobia and racism that are taking place in certain parts of Europe.
This problem can only be resolved by close cooperation and collaboration with the countries of origin, otherwise, any policy in this field will be condemned to failure.
Community programmes such as PHARE, TACIS, MEDA, or the immigration and asylum action plans themselves are absolutely necessary.
Yet at the same time, and I would like to put particular emphasis on this point, it must also be stressed, from a political angle in particular, that the countries of origin should make the most of their natural and human resources and, most of all, guarantee political and social stability so that their citizens can have confidence in their own leaders.
This is, therefore, an issue of shared responsibility and not only the responsibility of the Member States or of the European Union itself.
Furthermore, both the communication and the Evans report fail to define concepts such as persecution by third parties, persecution in cases of conflict or gender related persecution, for example, given that the difficulty sometimes lies more in the definition of the concept of the refugee than in the process of identifying it.
To be precise, we are on the right track: faced with a phenomenon such as asylum and immigration, a concern for many of us, cooperation, solidarity, clear legislation and realism are the necessary prerequisites for addressing one of the major challenges for the European Union in this new century.
The Commission' s communication on a Community immigration policy, and the vote on the Pirker report, give us an opportunity to do just that.
We must not forget that for Europeans the Tampere Summit in October 1999, which sought fair treatment for nationals of third countries in comparison with citizens of the Union, was a very important event.
This is why, today, we must give our strong support to the Commission' s communication, because this future Community policy on immigration has a great many virtues, in particular that of combating all forms of criminal activity.
The most rancorous debate I have been able to follow is taking place right now in Denmark.
It would of course be marvellous if we were to use our cooperation to strengthen the principles we talk so much about - democracy and human rights and, I might add, humanitarianism - instead of dragging each other down to the lowest common denominator.
He underlines the lack of common approach between the Member States with regard to the concept of safe countries.
It is therefore very important, in addition to having measures of a regulatory nature, to develop an active policy of combating trafficking in human beings, because such trafficking constitutes, above all, the exploitation of a great deal of misery, poverty and fear, by organisations which are highly efficient and who not only traffic in human beings but also engage in other criminal activities.
However, at the same time we cannot ignore the fact that this important value is being abused by a considerable number of people, who probably have, in human terms, legitimate reasons for doing so, but who do it to the detriment of those who are fleeing real persecution.
We must therefore agree quickly on the rules for allowing people to come in, if we want to avoid the phenomenon of asylum shopping.
What I am trying to say is essential rules which do not necessarily go into matters in detail but which translate into practical terms the fundamental political consensus that there has to be on this subject if we are ever to succeed in overcoming this problem.
It is true that immigration is another problem, but it is also true that we cannot claim that if we had a more or less unrestricted immigration system all our problems would be solved; nowhere in the world is there any example of such a policy being implemented, and even where the system is the most liberal, it is still not possible to solve all the problems, especially those that are still linked to illegal immigration.
If we want to find successful solutions to all these questions, we must have the courage to ask them clearly and to come up with some serious answers, and I hope that that is what will happen at our conference.
If we do not succeed in finding answers for our people, I fear that there is a dangerous risk that they will take matters into their own hands, and I am also afraid - and I hope that we in this House share this feeling, at least most of us if not all - that Europe may not be able to remain a Europe of rights and freedoms, a Europe that is welcoming and open, and also, because this is what our fellow citizens are concerned about, a Europe that is prudent and takes precautions, and a Europe that expects all those who find themselves in its territory to respect the rule of law.
We have been working - and I refer to this legislature, of course - over the past two years to establish positive relations between citizens and immigrants, to make equal opportunities possible and to create a form of social cohesion.
Now, everyone can see the need to revise certain parts of the agenda we have been working on and, in particular, to identify how the revision of these points can be converted into positive Community legislation allowing us to grow into the kind of Europe we all want.
Secondly, we need a thorough debate at European level on the issues which we consider to be vital for our policies such as cooperation between police forces, judicial cooperation, common forms of control and common information systems.
We must insist on the need for the major educational programmes which are the foundations of our culture, and of multiculturalism, in particular: there must be schooling and education starting with foreign children, especially, irrespective of their legal position.
Mr President, I would first like to thank Commissioner Vitorino.
Commissioner, you have listened seriously to the demands made by many experts on migration and NGOs and have made it clear in two communications how policy on refugees and traditional migrants is to be handled.
With your communication on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status valid throughout the Union for persons granted asylum you have brought forward some excellent proposals for harmonising asylum policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, there is no doubt that after the tragic events of 11 September, asylum and immigration policy will be undergoing drastic changes.
In the light of this, it may have been more appropriate to postpone the discussion of these reports because they do not take into consideration recent international developments.
In effect, the report regards as positive the view that immigration should be envisaged from an economic viewpoint, as a function of the needs and capacities of Member States.
Article 23 could not be clearer.
In other words, the proposed Community policy on immigration is a quota policy.
Massively overexploited, immigrants are the victims of liberal deregulation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are fully aware that this debate addresses one of the most important and 'hottest' issues at European level: Common asylum and immigration policy.
This situation is the result of two separate factors: firstly, it has come about because the Treaty of Amsterdam granted new competences to the Community, opening up new possibilities for action on a European scale; and secondly, because there has been a considerable increase in migratory pressures from third countries, the devastating effects of which have been highlighted by certain recent tragic events, such as the massive influx of refugees from the Kosovo crisis and the tragedy at Dover.
We must take account of the fact that three different types of people are involved in this problem: asylum seekers, temporarily displaced persons and economic migrants.
In order to prevent new problems emerging, we will have to consider the real labour needs of each Member State and the resources available for the reception and integration of these immigrants.
It makes more sense, for example, for us to give priority to legalising immigrants who can be integrated into the labour market and who are already on Community territory than encouraging a new wave of immigration.
We need to develop a more proactive policy which recognises that pressure from migration is set to continue and that properly planned immigration can bring benefits to Europe, to the migrants themselves and also to their countries of origin.
Our aim is to improve the management of migratory movements within the framework of close cooperation with countries of origin and of transit, strengthening the fight against illegal immigration and combating the criminal networks involved, guaranteeing, at the same time, the rights of victims.
What is required is a more open and flexible policy which, in addition to providing greater coordination of policies aimed at reducing migratory pressures and strengthening border controls, could have the benefit of achieving a reduction in illegal immigration that would be advantageous to those very people who truly need the protection that refuge and asylum affords.
The same may be said of the proposal to introduce a single procedure - as it is called - which, in practice, takes away from the host State any possibility of verifying the suitability of the applicant, who cannot be denied any right, mind you, and whose only obligation is to produce his credentials, as happens among respectable people.
The caution and controls that the rapporteur is denying the States are the fundamental elements of basic, legitimate protection of the States and their citizens.
The Pirker report, which I do support, on a common immigration policy, is much more responsible, not least because it is more balanced, does not make concessions to cheap populism and respects safety measures.
Lastly, to those Members of the left who have attempted once again to bring up the usual controversy against Mr Berlusconi today, I would point out that they are at least a day late.
We must not have a situation in which certain people can take advantage of the loopholes in our harmonisation in order to create an underclass of Europeans by introducing second-class workers or deferred citizenship.
As for our asylum policy, it will gain in terms of quality and justice if we can agree to recognise that it needs to be supplemented by other compulsory cooperation policies which enable everyone to live with dignity and self-respect in their own countries.
In all cases, asylum policy should reject arbitrary criteria linked to the current situation.
The Geneva Convention drafted in 1951 was conceived as a temporary measure.
It was negotiated in a very different world - a world still haunted by the shameful failure of Western countries to offer sanctuary to the victims of European fascism.
But the terms of the 1951 Convention, and specifically the requirement to assess all claims individually, even if the applicant is manifestly coming from a safe country, encourage economic migrants to seek entry as refugees.
All countries can benefit from the energy and enterprise of people who are prepared to cross whole continents in search of a better future.
For such a policy to gain public consent it must be fair and transparent and it must be open to account.
If we want to manage a sustainable policy of legal immigration and, at the same time, protect the rights of those most in need of sanctuary, we must take back control of our asylum laws from the judges.
Mr President, today's debate on asylum and immigration is extremely topical, what with insecurity and fear about military operations in the Middle East giving rise to mass movements of desperate people.
Waves of refugees have already reached the European Union, their first port of call being Greece, which is the European Union's closest border with the Middle East.
Mr President, the increase in the number of asylum seekers over the last few years is causing grave problems for Member States, which are having serious difficulty in coping with the situation.
In my city, the number of conventional asylum seekers has doubled in a little less than a year.
The two Commission communications that we are debating today are certainly an important step forward.
In our cities we have families living under canvas.
Insisting on maintaining positions which are too national will end up becoming indecent and irresponsible when the lives of thousands of refugees are at stake and when certain districts in our major European cities are at risk of turning into ghettos.
First of all, I wish to thank you for all your contributions to this debate, including the critical contributions, and clarify two points of criticism I think are important.
With regard to the second aspect, I should like to remind you that the Commission has given itself the task of reviewing its proposals in light of the international situation that has arisen following the terrorist attacks in the United States of America.
Any attempt to portray the Commission as having no initiatives on fighting illegal immigration is unfair.
Amended motion for a Council resolution [COM(2001) 121 - C5-0165/2001 - 2001/0061(CNS)] on the adoption of provisions for the implementation of the Protocol to the Treaty of Nice concerning the financial consequences of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty and concerning the Coal and Steel Research Fund 2.
Amended motion for a Council resolution [COM(2001) 121 - C5-0166/2001 - 2000/0363(CNS)] on the adoption of the multiannual financial guidelines for the administration of the assets of the 'ECSC in liquidation' with, following completion of the liquidation, the 'Assets of the Coal and Steel Research Fund' 3.
Communication from the Commission to the Council [COM(2000) 518 - C5-0204/2001 - 2001/2095(COS)], the European Parliament, the Advisory Committee of the ECSC, the Committee on Economic and Social and the Committee of the Regions - expiry of the ECSC Treaty: financial activities after 2002 Before the final vote on the first proposal Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the reasons I expressed yesterday and considering the fact that you have adopted my legislative amendments, I call upon you to postpone the vote on the legislative resolutions until the possibility of an agreement with the Commission and the Council increasing Parliament' s role, pursuant to Rule 69 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, can be ascertained.
I ask you to vote in favour of it. (Parliament adopted the draft legislative resolution.) Explanation of vote - Turchi Report (A5-0303/2001) and Linkohr Report (A5-0297/2001): . (FR) The two reports on the expiry of the ECSC Treaty state - and deplore the fact - that the Council is asking Parliament to give it discharge regarding activities which it has no means of controlling.
We discovered that the world's security, stability and economy are much more fragile than we previously believed.
The Code of Conduct on Arms Exports was a significant development in controlling this trade.
There is much greater transparency in arms controls policies.
It is worth noting that the NGOs' Safer World holds up the UK's annual report, first introduced by the then Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, as an example for other countries.
Member States are also seeking to apply those principles in wider international fora.
It would be a mistake to underestimate the importance of what has been achieved or the considerable mindshift that is taking place among Member States in this field.
Controls of official exports are important, but the illegal trade in arms is our biggest problem.
I welcome the work of Member States towards a UN Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons, reminding Parliament that the definition includes things like shoulder-carried, anti-aircraft missiles.
Greater transparency is the guardian of our security in this field.
The Council's annual report ought to be more detailed, as I have set out in my report.
The list, however, has to be meaningful and provide the basis of effective action in this field and not be a statement of general intent.
The annual report would, therefore, need to meet a number of standards.
Secondly, in my opinion, the monitoring procedures concerning the end user of the exported arms should be stepped up.
In Africa, Togo and Burkina Faso are officially the end users of arms supplied from Bulgaria, whilst in reality, these are passed on to Liberia and the rebels of Sierra Leone.
Embassies of EU Member States could play a more supervisory role in situ.
In that sense, the UN Conference in July was a missed opportunity, and I believe that this topic must remain a permanent feature in the transatlantic dialogue.
Where the arms export is concerned, we have to make do with a Code of Conduct which is considerably restricted by Article 296 of the EC Treaty which protects national security interests.
In fact, it has never been clear to me in what way national security interests can be different from those of the European Union.
The arms export agreements are also typified by a large degree of voluntariness, but also, for example, by inconsistent agreements on the end use of exported arms.
The trade in these weapons also sustains phenomena such as child soldiers.
The EU must make every effort, together with those countries, to tackle the often criminal trade in weapons.
In the light of 11 September, it is important to tighten the agreements on the export of so-called dual-use goods.
The citizens would like to know how the export policy will be adopted to prevent the wrong expertise from falling into the wrong hands.
I would quote the reports on terrorism and the use of weapons of mass destruction in this connection.
The least we can ask from the Council and the Commission is to indicate the role which can improve the organised arms export policy in the fight against terrorism.
As Mr Titley mentioned, the control of small arms is important.
This company has seen a 40% jump in share prices as a result of the events of 11 September and thereafter.
We must look at the whole issue of arms production in the first place.
I mentioned Raytheon because it is ironic that, in spite of the peace process in Northern Ireland, Nobel peace prize winners stood on a platform welcoming into Derry Raytheon, one of the world's biggest arms manufacturing companies.
It is appalling to encourage manufacturers of weapons, or their components, into a place where people are killing each other every day with weapons so that these products can then be transported to other parts of the world to cause havoc and deprivation.
As regards torture weapons, we have a situation where these weapons are being sent to certain parts of the world with an EU stamp on them.
In my own country, Ireland, there has in recent times been an increase in the arms industry, mainly involving US-based arms manufacturing.
There are far more beneficial ways of creating employment for people in a given area than the production of something that is used to kill another human being.
There are some aspects of the report that we do not agree with, such as that referring to the defence industry, but, generally speaking, this effort to achieve transparency and for the EU to play a crucial, I would say leading, role in the process of world disarmament and also in achieving peace is positive, and, for this reason, we think that it is a good report.
However, there are various aspects that could be improved, especially following the sad events of 11 September, since when North America has been promoting the indiscriminate sale of arms to all those it considers to be potential allies in the fight against terrorism.
Lastly, we also think it imperative, in order to improve transparency, for the Commission itself to draw up a report that clarifies this series of measures so that the role of the EU can be much greater and more decisive in achieving a world at peace and without arms.
In Dublin this weekend, Gerry Adams boasted that the IRA campaign of atrocities were the acts of freedom fighters and not the acts of terrorists.
No wonder The Wall Street Journal the other day carried an article with Adams and bin Laden linked together.
This policy must go ahead on the basis of cohesion, which also means trust between Member States, and of coherence between the ideas that are put forward and practical action.
The European Union' s Code of Conduct on arms exports adopted in 1999 is a key instrument for harmonisation and control in this field.
I therefore support the thrust of this report, although once again, I wish to emphasise the need for coherence and cohesion in this field.
Similarly, the production under licence by EU countries in third countries is another one of such issues.
Then there is an arms exports control policy which must be in line with European common foreign policy.
In short, I consider the Titley report to be important, but I feel - this is my point of view and is not a criticism of the Titley report - that the European Union should, in these tragic times, set itself the target of disarmament, not rearmament.
The first of these issues, which has already been mentioned by all those who have spoken, is the need to make this code law, that is to convert it into a legally binding instrument, seeing as, nowadays, everything depends on the good will of the Member States of the European Union, which are even free to decide whether or not to submit an annual report, which not all the Member States have chosen to do.
Another complex issue which has yet to be resolved is that of a Community system of controlling the end use, the final recipient of the arms exported and the brokers who, in the arms trade, in arms trafficking - the word trafficking may be more appropriate, more to the point - are the real money-makers.
It is a matter of serious concern that all this is not happening, that we do not have such a control facility, bearing in mind, for example, that the Taliban will probably be fighting in Afghanistan with arms supplied by the West, including some of the countries of the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, as regards these questions, there is only one risk, which is engendered by our hypocrisy in disregarding - as has been pointed out - the great difference between a gentleman' s agreement and a law.
I will therefore close by reiterating that, until the Code of Conduct becomes law, we will be at fault, and this report' s due reference to the values of democracy and the protection of human rights is likely to be reduced to a mere, ineffective appeal.
Mr President, the report is more critical on the subject of the export of weapons than any previous report by Mr Titley.
As his report and his speech have made clear, the issue of arms exports is tremendously complex and close collaboration is required by everyone in order to address its many different angles.
There were a number of good speeches in the debate, some of which referred to the relevance of the appalling events of 11 September and their aftermath.
There is no such thing as a good terrorist.
During the debate on last year's report, I stated that the ultimate responsibility for arms exports belongs to national governments.
However, it is also clear that some aspects of the arms trade lie within the remit of the common foreign and security policy, with which the Commission is fully associated.
As Parliament is already aware, the associated countries of central and eastern Europe, Cyprus, Turkey, Malta, and our EEA/EFTA partners have issued declarations through which they align themselves with the criteria and the principles contained in the European Union's Code of Conduct on Arms Exports.
The Union has continued to assist the candidates in their efforts to bring their legislation and administration fully into line with the provisions of the code.
If all parties involved were to adopt a more positive attitude, the agreement would become a more effective tool for addressing the concerns of all participants in the future.
They aim to establish reliable controls on the production, export and transit of weapons; to apply reliable markings to them in order to trace their origin more successfully; to criminalise their unlicensed production and trade; to regulate the activities of brokers; and to destroy surplus stockpiles and all confiscated weapons.
A new conference will be held no later than 2006 - I suspect that recent events may bring that date forward - and in the intervening period, biennial meetings will consider the progress made on turning the objectives of the conclusions into tangible reality.
We will work hard with the Member States to ensure an active and ambitious follow-up.
The European Union's commitment to concrete action in the field of small arms is illustrated by a number of projects currently under way or under consideration in different parts of the world.
During the past few months Commission services have begun drafting EC legislation on a number of non-military items such as instruments of torture, to which the provisions of the code should, in our view, apply.
This marks a first step in tackling the issue.
Compilation of a more extended list, which might include items that also have civilian uses - instruments of internal repression such as riot-control equipment, for example - would require the commitment of significant additional resources.
Progress in that field is conditional on the willingness of Member States and Parliament to make additional resources available for these purposes.
I hope that year by year we can continue to respond constructively to what he has to say.
Anybody who looks at the violence around the world, the violence often associated with the breakdown of States, from Somalia to Sudan, to Sierra Leone, to Afghanistan; anybody who looks at the situation created by the breakdown of States knows how much the trade and small arms is responsible for continuing the violence and making the violence far more lethal.
So this report is an important one, and I hope we can respond to it over the coming months and years with appropriately constructive behaviour.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Political and humanitarian situation in Afghanistan The next item is the Commission statement on the political and humanitarian situation in Afghanistan.
If I have to leave before the end of the discussion it is not for lack of appreciation of the importance of what we are discussing - I believe this issue is going to dominate the international agenda for the next few months - but because I have to attend an important meeting before the EU-Russia Summit with the Deputy-Premier of the Russian Federation to discuss the modalities for beginning discussions on a common European economic area.
We will try to agree the terms of reference of our work this evening before our summit with President Putin tomorrow.
I should just like to say two or three words about that visit and make two or three points about the political situation in Afghanistan, leaving the humanitarian issues, which are of such compelling importance, to Commissioner Nielson.
Then I would like to say a word about a draft regulation which the Commission has today adopted.
For me, it is very important to recognise that if we are to make the point around the world that human rights are universally valid, including the right not to be murdered by terrorists - if we are to make that point successfully around the world - it is very important for us not to give the impression that we have a monopoly of virtue, that we in Europe are perfect when it comes to talking about these matters.
Thirdly, we say that it is a clich, a truism when people talk about 11 September to say - rather like the fall of the Berlin Wall - nothing will ever be the same again.
Concerning the political situation in Afghanistan, which we were able to discuss both in Pakistan and in Iran, there were of course different views of the situation.
There are also reports that speak of some Taliban military successes and of a return to what passes for a sort of grim normality in Kabul.
The opposition Northern Alliance has declared itself ready and willing to assist the United States and international coalition efforts.
Following the death of Commander Masood on 8 September - and I know he made an important visit to Parliament not long ago - there is greater uncertainty as to the cohesion of this alliance.
In both Pakistan and Iran, where as I said there are very different views of the situation in Afghanistan, there was agreement that only a broad-based government made up of representatives of all factions and ethnic groups in the country, taking account of the security concerns of neighbouring countries, can begin the process of restoring Afghanistan to normality and pave the way for reconstruction.
It would be for the Afghan people to decide what kind of Loya Jirga process they want and what role different political personages might play in such a development.
How you get to that broad-based government is incomparably more difficult to work out, but there is also a shared perception that the world outside - even in the shape of the United Nations - cannot impose a political settlement on Afghanistan.
We have in the Commission today adopted a draft regulation on specific measures directed against certain persons and entities with a view to combating international terrorism.
The draft proposal includes all those individuals and organisations potentially related to the 11 September attack covered by the US Executive Order issued by President Bush last week.
In these circumstances we would be extremely grateful if Parliament could consider an emergency procedure, if possible completing the consultation process during this week's part-session.
I know that the President of the Commission will be writing to you on these lines, Madam President.
It would be an opportunity to demonstrate that in exceptional circumstances the Community institutions can act with real despatch.
If there is any institution in the world, if there is any group of countries in the world that can demonstrate the benefits of multilateralism, of arguing about fish quotas or budgets, rather than murdering one another, it is the European Union.
The offer to open up the government of three Afghan provinces and the exodus of people fleeing the country to avoid being mobilised against potential intervention by the international alliance clearly suggest that this is true.
If, to this fact we add the decision made yesterday in Rome to create a Supreme Council of National Unity instructed to form a provisional government and name a Head of State, we can truly arrive at the conclusion that the situation in Afghanistan is changing from one day to the next.
Well, in my opinion, the European Union, faced with the crisis situation in this region, should present itself as an element of stability and moderation.
The EU should contribute to the establishment of a democratic government in Afghanistan.
Lastly, Madam President, the European Union should give its support to an enormous humanitarian task.
We should not forget that 25% of the 22 million Afghans will survive thanks exclusively to international aid.
However, Madam President, it is important that the European Union does not commit a series of errors.
Secondly, the European Union should not commit the error of carrying out indiscriminate actions and of not pursuing tangible objectives.
For we should not forget, Madam President, that our objective should not be to dominate a country that certainly holds a strategic position, but not to encourage the action of extremist elements that could cause the overthrow of regimes such as those in Saudi Arabia, Pakistan or Egypt that would make Bin Laden a martyr or a political military leader or, something that would be far more serious, a religious or spiritual leader.
Madam President, Afghanistan is a country with an average income per inhabitant of USD 800.
There are some five million people who rely on food programmes.
The hands of the WFP and UNHCR are tied, for they cannot work in that country.
Over the past few years, the Commission has granted a great deal of aid via the ECHO programme.
It is not 'them' or 'they' , but it is our joint responsibility to act in that region.
On behalf of the Socialist Group, I hope that the Commission, in close cooperation with all those involved, the international NGOs, UNHCR, WFP, in Iran, in Pakistan, with the political initiatives which Commissioner Patten indicated a moment ago, manages to send out that signal on time: a new coalition for humanitarian aid in the region.
Madam President, Commissioner Patten correctly said that we have no quarrel with Islam.
Our quarrel is with bin Laden who shelters in Afghanistan and with the Taliban, they seem to be almost one and the same, and we pity the situation of the Afghan people.
It is sad to see how little international help has been given to those refugees or to their hosts, the Iranian government.
These refugees fled acute starvation and utter brutality in Afghanistan to find a haven in Iran and there are huge numbers of new refugees now on the move.
The psychological terror that our new alliance has properly caused against terrorism in the region is causing the new flight of so many new millions of refugees.
I ask the Commission to assist the refugees who have already fled and are in situ elsewhere.
May I also include the 3.5 million Iraqi refugees in the region.
Firstly, I believe it would be beneficial if the European Union, as in the past two, three weeks, were to exercise its moderating influence on the United States, so as to prevent any unnecessary civilian victims from being claimed when the Taliban are brought down.
Mr Joschka Fischer, Germany' s Foreign Affairs Minister, put this across very articulately, in my opinion, when he said that we can no longer afford any black holes on the global map.
It is friends, in particular, that need to be alerted in an open and critical manner to respecting democracy and human rights.
In my opinion, the real consequences of 11 September can only be drawn if we display the honesty to tackle that country and that region.
Madam President, I am able, as it were, to take up where my esteemed fellow MEP, Mr Lagendijk left off.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the response to recent events must be broken down into several different parts, and I will not focus on internal security or military solutions, seeing as I clearly do not have the necessary 'intelligence' , nor will I concentrate on humanitarian responses, for I am sure that the European Union and the international community as a whole will be able to respond generously, effectively and competently, as they have always done in the past.
The problem is not one of humanitarian efficiency or effectiveness, which have been proven for a long time now, but rather of deciding what political response to make to the matter at hand.
I am happy to be able to say this here in this Chamber because Parliament and the European Commission have been the only, rare exceptions among the institutions to pay constant attention to the issue of Afghanistan: in recent years, Parliament has been able to present to the Member States and the Council of Ministers a whole range of political and other suggestions.
We have been trying to draw attention to the indisputable problem of the tragic violation of human rights for years and, since 1997, the Commission and the European Parliament have also been reiterating that there is a problem of terrorism and drugs in Afghanistan, that is, a major geopolitical problem.
At the present moment, however, I feel that we have to make a choice: there are moments in history when one has to stop hesitating and take sides, and if we are to do so we must not side with religious fanaticism, dictatorships or some other form of nationalism, but with the liberal democracies - with all their failings and imperfections, admittedly - but also with all their power and their capacity to operate systems which are better equipped to protect human rights in the world.
We must make an effort and go deeper into the matter rather than simply believing that if we catch Osama Bin Laden - which would be right and proper and is a legitimate, necessary thing to do - then the problem will be resolved.
The handiwork of their guest Osama bin Laden is a case in point, as is the fact that they export narcotics on a large scale.
However, Afghan history and today' s political reality prove that the Taliban can only be driven out by internal opposition forces.
That is why we deem the present Afghanistan strategy of the American administration to provide financial and material aid to the broadest possible coalition against the Taliban around the king in exile, Zahir Shah, to be the most plausible foreign contribution to this political and military tour de force.
We are also delighted by the fact that President Bush has earmarked USD 100 million by way of aid for the immense damage incurred to the Afghan refugees.
Madam President, Commissioner, as I take the floor in this debate, I would be failing in my duty if I did not pay homage, as you have done Madam President, to the memory of Commander Ahmed Shah Masood.
A number of our Members had the opportunity to meet him here just six months ago, at your invitation, and we discovered that not only was he a man of war famous for his tactics and his exceptional charisma, but he could also be a statesman, and a man of peace and reconciliation, the peace and reconciliation for which his country has been waiting for more than thirty years.
What Mr Patten has just told us about the political situation in Afghanistan confirms my analysis that Commander Masood' s plan for solving the crisis in Afghanistan could be well underway.
I have the feeling - and Mr Patten has just reinforced it - that this is the direction in which the Union' s efforts are heading, and I welcome this, but I do not forget the disastrous humanitarian situation that prevails in the region as a whole.
It seems to me that, given the condemnation of the situation in Afghanistan that this Parliament has already issued, and given the danger of the reduction in civil liberties, we have to remain united, as Commissioner Patten has said, and present a united front against terrorism.
On the one hand there is the Afghan population, which is facing a serious crisis, as was very clearly stated by the Joint Committee of the FAO and the World Food Programme (WFP) that recently visited Afghanistan, and which has said that, at this moment in time, the country is suffering widespread starvation due to a serious crisis in agricultural production, that could cause the death of a huge number of people.
To this we must add the continuing danger to the farming population posed by the antipersonnel mines scattered throughout the country and the situation of the thousands of refugees in bordering countries - not only in Pakistan and Iran, but also in Uzbekistan and Tajikistan I would like to point out - that have to be dealt with.
However, what also worries me - and it is on this that I would like to focus, Madam President - is the situation of the populations in all the other developing countries, particularly the African countries, who will suffer the worst economic consequences of this crisis.
According to information from the World Bank, the terror attacks condemn ten million more people to poverty, as a result of economic slowdown and, particularly, from the loss of income due to decreased exports, a reduction in tourism, falling prices, etc.
It is true, Madam President, that the European Union and this Parliament now have to form a strong coalition against terrorism.
I would, therefore, ask that, alongside this coalition against terrorism, we also send a signal, chiefly to the peoples of Africa and Asia, stating our desire to build a coalition against misery, poverty and despair.
These countries have been, and will be, the first to be affected by the refugee problem as a result of what is now happening in Afghanistan and in that part of the world.
Madam President, we are facing a war against terrorism that all freedom-loving people must embrace.
As you know, I was born in a country that understands terrorism, with 65 000 dead - please remember that the LTT suicide bombers in Sri Lanka are not Muslims - but the world has so far turned a blind eye on twenty-three years of terrorism.
The tragedy of 11 September has finally focused the attention of those that love democracy and freedom on the cancer that hides within.
The cancer of terrorism.
I salute my colleague, Edward McMillan-Scott, for taking the initiative to lead a delegation to Rome to initiate a coalition between the King and the Northern Alliance, which I am happy to say has now been signed, as General Morillon has just mentioned.
I want to congratulate General Morillon on inviting Shah Masood here, so that in April we had a chance to meet him.
The 1963 Constitution states that liberty is a natural right of each human being - this right has no limitations except the liberty of others, but freedom of thought and expression is invaluable - that every Afghan has a right to print and publish ideas, that education is a right of every Afghan and shall be provided, free of charge, by the State, and that work is a right of every Afghan who has the capability to do it.
What a far cry this is from the tragedy existing in Afghanistan today, where women are beaten, denied education, kept at home as slaves and with one in eight dying in childbirth.
The war against terrorism is a war to free the people of Afghanistan from the twenty-eight years of slavery.
I salute President Bush and the British Prime Minister for their determination - shoulder-to-shoulder with a Democratic Party and Ian Duncan Smith, the leader of the Conservative Party who was here in Parliament today - to defeat and eradicate international terrorism.
If the EU and this House are to be anything at all, they must have an involvement in ensuring this most basic of human activities; the right to live without being terrorised, the freedom to live without the daily sudden threat of death.
Madam President, Commissioner Patten, Commissioner Nielson, I would firstly like to pay tribute to the thousands of innocent victims in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, victims of an attack on our principles, on our democracy, on our system of freedoms, on our way of understanding peaceful coexistence, on our economy, an attack, at the end of the day, on tolerance between peoples and ideas.
The European response has for once been fast and immediate in the case of this Parliament.
This is a response that should be firm, forceful, proportionate and selective, in cooperation with the United Nations, and which requires political, military and police measures by the intelligence, diplomatic, legal and economic services which have, in one form or another, already been or are in the process of being adopted.
I have to remind you that the magnitude and gravity of events is such that the decisions taken here a few days ago that have still not been implemented have already been superseded by events.
As a member of the Committee on Development and Cooperation I would call for the implementation of a major humanitarian aid programme that must be put in place immediately to help the millions of displaced persons and refugees in Afghanistan, Pakistan and other countries in the region.
I shall conclude, Madam President, by stating that the fight against poverty in the world, that we have highlighted on numerous occasions, is now particularly relevant and that we should make it one of our top priorities if we want to solve this problem in the short, medium and long term.
Madam President, the terrible pictures from New York exactly three weeks ago today have entered our souls to stay.
Take us in Germany as an example: we find fault with the USA and make so bold as to set up rules of conduct.
These people deserve the complete solidarity of the EU and of our Parliament.
It has now suffered 28 years of communist dictatorship, followed by fanatic Islamic theocracy, turning it into a pariah State as the Taliban harbours terrorists and executes thousands.
We were the first Western elected politicians to visit the royal household since the crisis.
He demonstrated a supreme sense of patriotism and duty to his estranged country, and went as far as to say that he would serve Afghanistan in any capacity his people chose through their assembled tribal council, or Loya Jirga, which he has been working on for the last two years.
It was clear to me that Zahir Shah, in spite of his advanced age, was both cogent and fit enough to do the job, after conducting a lengthy one-and-a-half-hour interview with myself and my colleagues.
Madam President, I condemn without reservation terrorism and murder.
These millions of Muslims, from Indonesia to Nigeria, from Central Asia to the leafy suburbs of California, knew nothing about Osama bin Laden before 11 September.
These terrorists have no authority to act on behalf of any people, race or religion.
Therefore, we must fight terrorism and act against terrorists, not innocent civilians who pursue their lives peacefully and who should have the freedom to believe in a religion of their choice.
Reason without passion is sterile, passion without reason is heat.
Let us be firm and decisive.
I totally agree with what has been said this afternoon on the situation of the people in Afghanistan.
We had a spending level of some EUR 23 million, which would have covered the continuation until New Year of the very last activity that we were funding there.
In fact we had 29 European NGOs delivering humanitarian aid inside Afghanistan.
They were all there on 11 September.
On 11 September I was on my way to a mission to Afghanistan and to Pakistan.
The morning after, we took the train back from London to Brussels but our luggage was already in the aeroplane for Islamabad.
Winter is such a dominating feature of reality there that even in normal years military fighting more or less stops simply because getting around is so difficult.
The international staff of the different aid agencies and NGOs have all been withdrawn from the country.
However, it is very encouraging to see that the local staff is continuing to distribute food - if the food has not been taken over by the Taliban - and is still running health clinics and providing education where it is possible.
If no planting is possible before the winter sets in - and this is most probable - we are in for a very serious threat within less than half a year, even if things work out well in terms of stability.
We have supported the different UN organisations very actively, and participated at the meeting of the Afghan support group in Berlin on 27 September.
There are conflicting views in the discussion as to whether emphasis should be placed on keeping the additional migratory flows within Afghanistan or on encouraging Pakistan and Iran to open their borders, as the UNHCR intends to do.
My earlier reference to Afghan local staff continuing to do what they did before the expatriates had to leave relates to deliveries of existing food and other stocks.
It is a far more difficult and demanding task to manage the convoys of new supplies coming in, given the internal situation that exists today.
Things are different in the north-eastern part controlled by the Northern Alliance and in the rest of the country.
But from the humanitarian point of view it is quite evident that our activities must be targeted at the whole country.
First - and this is to set the record straight - over the past ten years we have provided humanitarian aid of more than EUR 400 million to internally displaced persons in Afghanistan and refugees in neighbouring countries: ECHO funds, drought mitigation and response activities like food aid, agricultural rehabilitation, water and sanitation rehabilitation, assistance to internally displaced persons and to refugees in Pakistan, as well as prevention of displacements and support for returnees.
ECHO and the organisations working with our money have managed to build up a portfolio of meaningful activities that they have been able to continue.
I add that one unfortunate international case is not representative of the situation of the 29 organisations that the Commission is funding.
It is a difficult situation but it is important to note that the organisations we are funding cannot be accused of the same kind of activity.
They were able to work with expatriates until 11 September and to build up a portfolio of activity, which I was very much looking forward to coming to see.
I pay tribute also to my predecessor in this job for laying the seeds of this kind of good cooperation with the European humanitarian NGOs.
We have, this year, committed EUR 23 million to ECHO, channelled through NGOs and different UN agencies.
As I said, this would have covered a continuation of this level of activity until the end of the year.
Then this terrible act of terrorism took place.
We will approach the budgetary authority in order to get the green light for accessing and using funds from the emergency budget reserve, as in earlier years when ECHO's normal budget did not cover the needs that arose because of terrible events.
But this is covered by the normal procedure for accessing additional money.
The second line of support is EC aid to uprooted people.
The third line is EC food aid and food security.
Since the beginning of this year this line has committed 30 000 tonnes of food aid to the World Food Programme and 7 000 tonnes to NGOs.
A further EUR 7 million is now being requested by the Commission for the WFP Afghan programme.
We hear in the media now about a convoy getting through the Khyber Pass and going north.
I would go as far as to say that in general this is not the problem with our work in the humanitarian aid area.
Please keep in mind that the totality of ECHO's budget is used every year and this year we are coming to you asking for more because of this situation.
Here we are in a terrible dilemma.
We are participating in the debate on how to organise things and to understand the situation as much as possible.
In respect of the dialogue with the budgetary authority, we are not releasing figures other than this EUR 25 million, but this will be an element in that package which we will be coming back to quite soon.
I see this as something that demonstrates to us that, looking back on the history of our own experiment in Europe, we got organised to do what needed to be done in Europe after the Second World War and we did it.
The problem we are discussing here today and the challenges it involves tell us that Europe now needs to get organised and find a way of achieving what the world needs to achieve.
The debate is closed.
Guidelines for the trans-European transport network The next item is the Commission communication on Guidelines for the trans-European transport network.
The trans-European transport network has been the backbone of our internal market since it was introduced by the Treaty of Maastricht and, thanks to the guidelines which we jointly adopted in 1996, the European Union has a structure of networks of European interest which allows the interconnection of our regions and aids the mobility of people and goods.
These trans-European networks are Europe' s first attempt since Roman times to treat its infrastructures in a truly global and integrated fashion.
The review we are proposing today attempts to update the development of this system and add new priority projects which respond to the problems of the challenges which our common transport policy has raised in recent years.
The liberalisation of transport systems and the increase in demand for mobility have caused an imbalance between the different modes of transport and have contributed to the creation of bottlenecks in certain areas of our infrastructures.
Both the Gothenburg Summit and the Transport White Paper adopted on 12 September have identified these failings and have demanded that the Commission implement urgent measures to overcome them.
In today' s proposal, the Commission recommends including amongst the priority projects, as well as the so-called Essen projects, eight new rail, combined transport, inland waterways and intelligent transport - specifically the GALILEO project - networks and withdrawing three of the initial projects which have now been completed.
The new projects would be: first, a rail crossing for the Pyrenees which would overcome the natural obstacle which separates the Iberian Peninsula from the rest of the continent.
Fourth, the GALILEO satellite positioning system, which has been recognised as a priority by successive European Councils and by this House.
Eighth, the extension of the high speed train south as far as Nmes, which provides a connection between the north and south of Europe.
The necessary global investment for these projects, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, will amount to more than EUR 66 000 million which must clearly be financed essentially through national, regional, private, public and also, where necessary, Community funds.
Geographically, they involve the whole of our territory and they will have a decisive impact on the competitiveness of our economy.
This review also includes in the trans-European networks certain minor technical modifications of existing projects which were left outstanding after the conciliation of the package of guidelines in 1996.
In the Transport White Paper, we committed ourselves to this review, which is the most urgent priority, being followed in 2004 by another which will include in more detail the projects of the new countries of the Union.
This Parliament will therefore examine the next review and this is a political commitment which I reconfirm to this House.
Mr President, I am very pleased to fulfil through this work the mandates of the Council and the new requirements of our common transport policy.
Now that the White Paper and the review of the trans-European networks have been presented, I trust and hope, within the framework of codecision, that this Parliament will make its contributions, the added value of which is evident.
Ladies and gentlemen, I know that, while this has been approved today by the Commission, there are currently other topical realities, specifically the consequences for the airline industry of the events of 11 September, which you will possibly be concerned about.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, thank you for giving us this interim report now.
We are dissatisfied with the Member States, which have practically left you in the lurch over the last eighteen months.
The interim report on trans-European transport networks has been overdue since 1999.
Alternatively, the question arises of how the airlines can be helped after the tragic events of 11 September.
The issue there is whether or not we should check all the financing instruments, not only the money we have for the TEN, with that in mind.
My question is therefore whether there are currently any plans to set up more north-south links in the present candidate countries?
It seems to me extremely urgent that we present to Parliament and the Council a new system of charging for infrastructures and, in particular, a modification of the current 'Euro-disc' directive with regard to the funding of road infrastructures.
In this proposed new funding of infrastructures we will undoubtedly consider, amongst other things, that infrastructures should meet not only the costs of their own maintenance or construction, but also the so-called external costs, in accordance with the Costa report which was approved by this Parliament.
Furthermore, in this proposal we will introduce the possibility that in certain cases - I insist, not as a habitual system, but in certain exceptional cases such as the Brenner tunnel or certain large projects which involve very costly work with a significant environmental impact that must be reduced as far as possible - the so-called Swiss model may be applied in the European Union as well, that is to say that tolls, or part of a toll from an existing infrastructure be used to create a fund to finance the construction of an alternative rail infrastructure.
Secondly, you are going to analyse the projects that appear here in the codecision procedure.
I wish to say that the fact the project appears in the trans-European networks allows the European Union to promote the idea that States - who in the end have to make the great investments - or regions should also plan their large-scale works not on the basis of national interest, but in the interest of trans-European interconnection and hence with a cross-border vision.
This is why I said that, since Roman times, the trans-European networks initiative is really the first rational proposal of this type.
If the proposals being made here are approved this may go up to 20% for certain particularly important and costly projects, because appearing on these trans-European networks eases access to funding by the European Bank.
There is no doubt that the 2004 review, when the new countries of the Union will also be integrated, will stress this East-west component even more, without forgetting the North-south, which must always be maintained, in any event.
However, I would like to stress the importance I attach to moving from 10% to 20% in the projects.
Because this action is of interest to us in terms of future actions and requests by this Parliament.
Secondly, the environmental impact.
Mr President, I believe that the terrible experiences in America are causing the European satellite navigation system, GALILEO to be looked at from a new political and economic angle.
There is going to be an enormous effort to integrate the Iberian Peninsula with the European rail network and this will bring about such interoperability, thereby making rail transport - for both people and goods - a genuine alternative to other types of transport.
Secondly, what I have just said will clearly serve to integrate the Iberian Peninsula more with the rest of the European Union, just as the Rhine-Rhone project or the Paris-Stuttgart-Linz-Vienna, and, later, Budapest, rail project will serve to integrate the East with the rest of the current European Union.
It works for all modes of transport, because these trans-European networks do not only include the elements I have indicated.
Generically, there is the interconnection between ports and their adjacent land area, that is, rail interconnections, land interconnections, the intermodal interconnection not only of the sea ports but also of river ports, the modal interconnections between rail and airport, for interconnection with the air sector, and the interconnection between rail and road, essentially in the freight sector.
In other words, there is another series of generic elements that I have not expanded upon, which are also included in these networks.
But there are problem points within this rail network that eventually effect 20% of the European rail network.
Mrs Langenhagen, we are going to hold a debate in relation to GALILEO.
Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of my personal interest in this project, which I believe to be crucial in terms of European Union strategy.
In my personal opinion - although it is shared by the Services and by the Commission as a whole - what happened on 11 September gives us all the more reason to move ahead with this project.
In any event, you know that Council will have to give its definitive opinion on these issues at its last meeting in December and I hope that on that occasion we will finally clear up any ambiguities and doubts once and for all and we will move ahead with a project which is essential to the future of the European Union.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner and congratulate her on having appeared so quickly before this House to give us this important information today.
Thank you, Commissioner, for this new information on the trans-European networks.
It is an issue that has received much less media attention than the Alps, but it is probably a more critical one.
I would like to make a personal plea - and I would like to hear your opinions on the subject - for emergency structures at either end of the Pyrenees, particular between the Basque Country and the Atlantic coast.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, thank you for your initiative.
The Slovak government seeks a bridge in the form of the joining of Vienna and Bratislava airports into a mega-airport with a 'Transrapid' rail line to improve transport links.
It now seems that there is going to be a pass at Canfranc but, for the moment, there are just those two passes.
The Commission believes that, between now and 2010, we must provide a pass for a further 100 million tonnes between the Iberian Peninsula and the rest of the European continent.
A rail interconnection is not envisaged at the moment, but I would like to say that all of these aspects will clearly have to be looked at with care for the 2004 review, when enlargement has taken place, at least its first stage, if there are to be more stages.
Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President.
That concludes this item on the agenda.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is Questions to the Commission (B5-0333/2001).
Part I Question No 27 by (H-0700/01): Subject: Illegal immigration into the European Union through Morocco What measures will the Commission propose in order to regulate illegal immigration through Morocco, with a view to preventing any recurrence of the kind of tragic events which occurred this summer in Community waters?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Medina Ortega, cooperation with Morocco in the field of immigration is one element of the action plan approved by the Council at the end of 1999.
We are the first to emphasise that this cooperation must be underpinned by a broad and comprehensive vision that includes not only issues in the field of justice and home affairs, but also the relationship between external policy, development policy and economic assistance policy.
In the framework of relations between the European Union and Morocco, we have identified three fundamental areas of debate: economic and social cooperation, the management of migratory flows and preventing and combating illegal immigration, including transit immigration from the countries of sub-Saharan Africa.
An agreement on these three priorities will be concluded at the meeting scheduled for 9 October of the EU-Morocco Association Agreement Council.
In order to implement practical actions we are intending to use the new budget line B-7-6-67, created in 2001, with a budget of EUR 10 million for 2001 which was, to a large extent, designed for practical actions of cooperation with Morocco.
Specifically, this summer thirty or forty people, that we know of, have drowned as a result of the operation of these illegal immigration networks.
I would therefore like to repeat the question, Commissioner, of whether there is any possibility that, without waiting for the result of the Barcelona process and the broader renegotiations on association, we can reach a very practical agreement in terms of policing and control so that the Moroccan authorities may prevent these deaths, which are reaching frightening proportions.
In any event, I would like to stress that in 2001 a very substantial proportion of the budgetary line which I mentioned has been dedicated to actions for cooperation with Morocco, increasing that country' s administrative capacity in the management of illegal immigration, which is not just a human problem: it is a political problem, especially for Spain.
As the honourable Member recognises, considerable progress has already been made and we welcome this.
The ICRC monitors the condition of individual prisoners and maintains contact with their families.
The rule of law and respect for minority rights are key conditions applying to relations with and assistance for the Former Republic of Yugoslavia and its neighbours.
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you.
You talk about grounds for conviction, you talk about appeal procedures, but it has been established and confirmed, by this Parliament itself, that the Belgrade authorities were not competent, that only UNMIK was competent to deal with these cases, that the transfer had therefore already been accomplished, in law, and it was simply a matter of implementing it, and that has been the case for the past two years, Commissioner.
Well, that is quite a long time for us, but I think it is an extremely long time for those who are still incarcerated in the gaols of Belgrade.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the German government has specifically requested that the European Union should neither adopt positions nor take action in relation to the eight humanitarian aid organisation workers, specifically from the 'Shelter Now International' non-governmental organisation, who are currently on trial in Kabul, in Afghanistan, accused of attempting to convert Afghan Muslims to the Christian religion.
The governments of the three countries whose nationals are involved in this situation, Germany, Australia and the United States of America, have decided to act jointly at this stage and have stated that they would prefer to find solutions to this problem on a strictly bilateral level.
Irrespective of what happened in the United States on 11 September, we must be tireless in our campaign against the death penalty.
Mr President, I do not think that the honourable Member can doubt my position or that of the Commission on the death penalty or on freedom of religion.
If he had the opportunity to hear what I said, for example, in the debates on the European Union' s Charter of Fundamental Rights, he will find the answer there, not only in rhetoric, but also in clear and unequivocal laws.
We support, of course, the statement by the troika, the 'Afghan Support Group' , a joint contact group, currently chaired by Germany which has issued an unequivocal statement of support for these non-governmental organisation workers, whether they be citizens of the States I have mentioned or Afghans caught up in this situation.
Thank you very much for your presence and participation in this Question Time, Mr Vitorino.
The Greek authorities have informed the Commission that the relevant regulation, which designates the courts of justice for Community Trade marks, was approved in September.
France has stated that a decree on this matter will be approved before 31 October 2001.
The Commission services are currently checking this information.
As regards the three remaining Member States, Spain, Luxembourg and Italy, the Commission does not yet have any information proving that these Member States have adopted the necessary provisions.
The Commission is, therefore, considering launching infringement proceedings for failure to comply with Community law according to Article 226 of the EC Treaty.
May I point out that the Commission does not hesitate to pursue infringement proceedings, but only, as the Latin expression goes, as an ultimum remedium; in other words, only when all the avenues and possibilities of settling matters in an amicable way have been exhausted does the Commission take that step.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions No 31 and 32 will be taken together.
Question No 32 by (H-0750/01): Subject: Implementation of Directive 89/48/EEC in Greece The Court of Justice of the European Communities has ruled against Greece for its failure to implement Community Directive 89/48/EEC on a general system for the recognition of higher-education diplomas awarded on completion of professional education and training of at least three years' duration.
Mr President, in reply to the Oral Question by Mr Alavanos, the letter of formal notice sent to Greece to which the honourable Member refers, concerns a recently initiated infringement procedure regarding the failure of Presidential Decree No 165 of 23 June 2000 to comply with Directive 89/48 in certain areas.
On the other hand, the procedure referred to in question E-1336/01 earlier more specifically concerns problems surrounding the misapplication of Directive 89/48 to the psychology profession.
The Commission considers that diplomas awarded in Greece by another Member State and the refranchising agreements do not relate to training provided from or by Greece, but to training provided from or by the other Member State, since the Greek establishment in which the training in question has been provided is merely an intermediary without any autonomy.
In other words, it is not the Greek establishment that awards diplomas, but rather the university in the other Member State, and consequently, if those diplomas relate to professional training within the meaning of Directive 89/48, they are covered by that Directive.
It complied with the Court's judgment by forwarding Presidential Decree No 165 of 23 June 2000 to the Commission.
The Commission has also received complaints from individuals who, even since the implementation of the directive, have not seen their rights respected.
The basic issue is the question of whether a degree awarded by another Member State, following a course of studies which takes place physically in Greece, is or is not assimilated to a similar degree issued in Greece itself following studies at a Greek university.
So it is the equivalence between a purely Greek degree and a degree awarded by a university of another Member State, but where the study has been undertaken at a Greek establishment.
That underlines the importance of this issue.
Question No 33 by (H-0738/01): Subject: Illegal car taxation in Finland In 1998 the Commission asked Finland to amend its system of car and motorcycle taxation.
Questions to Commissioner Verheugen Mr President, my answer is as follows.
The Commission is currently considering initiating a procedure against Finland under Article 226 of the Treaty, which will supplement the one initiated in 1998.
Commission officials have admitted that Finland is blatantly violating Community and single-market rules.
Mr Commissioner, I hope you do not find this too heavy, but their hopes are lying on your shoulders.
I feel the weight of all those motorists in Finland on my shoulders - a very heavy load indeed.
The Commission's legal basis for its actions is Article 90 of the Treaty on the one hand, which prohibits tax discrimination, and on the other hand two directives adopted in 1983.
Article 90 gives the Court of Justice the opportunity for abundant jurisprudence.
Since interpretations of the judgments of the Court are not always unanimous, it is time to create a synthesis of all the various interpretations in order to determine clearly our future action.
That need for a synthesis is one of the reasons that led me to include in the Commission's working programme for this year a communication on motor vehicle taxation.
Question No 35 by (H-0695/01): Subject: Law on the use of minority languages in Slovakia From an official position paper of the Foreign Ministry of the Slovak Republic, sent to us by the Slovak ambassador in Brussels, we understand that the law of 1999 on the use of minority languages in Slovakia gives minorities certain rights.
In villages where more than 20% of the population is made up Slovaks, the inhabitants can receive all official communications in Slovakian.
Mr President, the Commission is paying very careful attention to the use of minority languages in Slovakia.
The Commission will continue in future to urge Slovakia to continue its efforts to implement the provisions of its laws, improve policy in this area and make the necessary budget funds available.
From that point of view, it would probably be useful if we did not only draw the attention to the very sensitive nature of the subject matter in the reports but also in the contacts with the Slovak authorities.
The message we are communicating in Slovakia is that we see the way the numerically stronger Slovaks interact with their minorities as an indicator of how strongly democracy and the rule of law have developed in that country.
Mr President, Mr Miller, the Commission's view on this issue is at one with that of the Council and - in so far as I can judge - with that of the European Parliament.
Over and above that, the Commission and the Member States believe that the timetable for the decision on decommissioning should be compatible with the timetable for Lithuania's accession to the European Union.
I spoke about this in depth only a few days ago with the new Lithuanian government in Vilna - it was actually the main topic of conversation in Vilnius - and I got the impression that the Lithuanian parliament and government had well understood the message that they now have to think about how the timetable for the decisions about Ignalina Block 2 has to be revised with a view to their own timetable for joining the European Union.
I especially liked what he said about there being no room for compromises.
During the discussions I have mentioned, I have however informed the Lithuanian government that the Commission is of course prepared to provide the necessary help in this aspect too, and is moreover willing to organise international aid.
A country like Lithuania can quite clearly not manage the huge task of shutting down a power plant like this one by its own resources alone.
On the contrary, the Lithuanians even resisted it at the time.
It is in our interest that this legacy should disappear.
There are no EU norms for the safety of reactors, which I myself greatly regret, but it has not to date been possible to change this situation.
The Council's working party on nuclear issues has applied itself to the safety situation in Eastern European nuclear power plants and presented a report just before the summer recess, which is no doubt available to Parliament.
Also, on matters exclusively for the Czech people - electing their leader, what stance they should take with regard to negotiations with their accession to the European Union, and particularly at a time when confidence building is required both within the EU and within the accession countries - do you think it is right that you as an official and a Member of the College of Commissioners should be interfering with the democratic wishes of the Czech people, or indeed the people of any country?
Therefore I would ask you, once again, to specifically either deny or admit that you made the statement and also to explain why you interfered in such a way?
Mr Crowley, I had always believed that a gentleman would not wish to know what two other gentlemen had discussed privately.
I will neither confirm nor deny anything in this matter.
The president of the Czech parliament and I have for many years been able to talk intimately and in confidence with one another.
As the authors are not present, Question Nos 41 and 42 lapse.
At the moment, there is a series of definitions of sensitive areas created, in particular, by the United Nations and the Alpine Convention, and also by the Community legislation on the protection of the environment.
The Commission believes that sensitive mountain areas, especially the Alpine region, as they are normally classified, are clearly priority areas in terms of the application of Community measures intended to reduce the environmental effects of transport and remove the link between increases in transport flows and economic growth.
Therefore, the White Paper on the European transport policy with a view to 2010, approved on 12 September, pays particular attention to the sensitive areas, especially the mountain regions, within the framework of the policy on charging and funding for infrastructures and the policy on the trans-European transport network.
It will include, in the charges, concepts such as external costs, including certain perfectly quantifiable environmental costs.
As the authors are not present, Question Nos 44, 45 and 46 lapse.
The task of assessing whether the safety level is sufficient falls to the operators and the national authorities, in accordance with their competences in France.
This is what I can tell you in relation to safety regulations.
And no doubt within Italy and France, in accordance with their internal institutional organisation, there are probably certain other regional or local administrations which also have a role to play.
However, I should like to tell you that at the present time, as I am sure you are aware, the public debate on the opening of the Mont-Blanc tunnel is in full swing, and the citizens of Europe, French and Italian, are appealing to us precisely in order to plead for a different cause, for a real sustainable transport system, which is not transport by road.
We have neither the competence nor the capacity to carry out that type of task.
Thirdly, sustainable mobility.
Question No 48 by (H-0747/01): Subject: Mont Blanc tunnel and 'piggyback traffic' The Mont Blanc tunnel is due to reopen within the next few months.
Mr President, in the Commission' s deliberations on the Alpine regions, stress is always placed on the high environmental cost of transport in those regions.
The problem was also dealt with in the reports of the high-level group, which Parliament approved by means of its resolution, contained in the Costa report on charging for the use of infrastructures, which I referred to earlier.
The new Commission White Paper on common policy not only offers current estimates of the costs of road transport, but also treats as a priority the resolution of the transport problems in the Alpine regions by means of a wide range of measures which I referred to earlier.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 49 to 82 will be replied to in writing.
That concludes Question Time.
In a moment, we will be listening to a statement by the European Commission and by the Council on Durban.
Conclusions of the UN Conference on Racism The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the conclusions of the United Nations Conference on racism.
The Durban Conference can be described as a success on several counts, despite the difficult political context in which the negotiations took place, and despite the fact that this conference had been described as a failure before it even began.
Firstly, in terms of practical results, this is the first United Nations conference devoted to the task of combating racism which has ended with the adoption, by consensus, of a policy declaration and a programme of action.
The Durban Conference was, above all, an opportunity to reinforce this essential task of combating racist tendencies, tendencies towards the discrimination and intolerance that constitute a feature of everyday life for millions of human beings, who are all too often the silent victims of outrages against their dignity.
As such, the lion' s share of the 220 articles of the action programme consist of preventive, educational and protective measures which aim to eradicate racism at all levels, as well as strategies which endeavour to attain out-and-out equality of all people worldwide.
By way of example, I will list a few measures which should strengthen the national and regional institutions in their fight against racism, and which must encourage them to step up their mutual cooperation.
Other measures aim to educate people to respect human rights, change their mentality and to grant non-discriminating access to education.
The action programme also contains a number of statutory, judicial, regulatory and administrative measures which must prevent racism and must offer protection against this plague.
That is why it was impossible to complete the discussions on certain important points, such as the caste system or race discrimination in combination with the death penalty.
It is not our intention here to deny the diversity of the human race, but we do want to emphasise its unity, and, as such, fight the present forms of racism which are often based on these kinds of claims.
We must also tell the victims, past and present, that we know that our history has not always been glorious and that by admitting as much, obviously on behalf of others, we are showing our intention of recognising their right to extenuating circumstances and, having said that, we must propose a true partnership, based on mutual respect, and far removed from the humiliating paternalism and miserly gestures of a self-satisfied and satiated lady of the manor.
It has recognised that slavery and trafficking were crimes against humanity and should always have been crimes against humanity.
In the final analysis, Durban was a success because, throughout this difficult negotiating process, the Member States of the European Union remained united.
The European Union and its external and common security policy have emerged strengthened from the Durban Conference.
Durban was the proof that the European Union is capable of speaking with a single voice on the difficult question - but one that is vital to the future of humanity - of the fight against racism and for respect for human dignity.
As a result, its credibility was reinforced, as was its position at international level.
The proof of this lies in the extreme flexibility and spirit of openness that the European Union showed in the discussions on the Middle East.
The re-launching of the Middle East peace process is one of the European Union' s priorities.
In that draft, the European Union was able to retain the principles which it believed to be essential, namely a balanced text with a strong call for negotiations to be resumed and for violence to be brought to an end, while at the same time expressing concern about the increase in anti-Semitism and Islamophobia in the world.
I must emphasise that everyone should be informed of the positive coverage of this conference.
Each of us, and Member States in particular, must now redouble our efforts so as to ensure that we make the most of the exemplary success achieved by the European Union at the Durban Conference.
I think, therefore, that we did our duty, we did exactly what we ought to have done, it seems to me, in extremely difficult conditions.
I am very pleased to have succeeded, on behalf of the European Union, with the support of the Commission, with the support of the Council, and with the support of the fifteen Member States, but also - which is very important - with the support of the thirteen candidate countries, to have succeeded, in fact, in saving this conference.
I should like to thank the European Parliament and the mission for their extremely important contribution to the Conference and for the important part which they played throughout the negotiations and to say that the Commission is satisfied with its contribution and its efforts to support the presidency.
The early departure of the United States left the European Union in the position of main speaker and basically left it to shoulder the main burden of the negotiations.
I think that the European Union's profile at this Conference was upgraded to a global profile, given that it managed, in a totally hostile environment, to bring important negotiations to a conclusion while maintaining cohesion between the Member States and maintaining excellent relations and cooperation with the candidate countries.
Of course, we see this Conference as a success, especially if you compare it with previous attempts in 1978 and 1983.
The main aim of the Conference was to find a modern definition for racism and to decide on measures to combat it at worldwide level and that would have been a huge success by helping us to deal with the problems of racism today.
The European Commission has consistently supported the participation of non-governmental organisations at the Conference.
A large sum of money, EUR 3.7 million to be precise, has been earmarked to support the United Nations and, more specifically, the office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, in order to help fund the participation of non-governmental organisations, especially from countries which cannot meet their expenses.
I have to say that the main, important non-governmental organisations working on racism, such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and many other non-governmental organisations failed to agree and publicly fell out in an exchange of inflammatory and awkward remarks.
The Commission will continue to put its efforts into combating racism by cooperating with the Member States and by keeping its eye on a very ambitious agenda; that means all Member States implementing and incorporating the package against discrimination decided last year by 2003, it means implementing the special programme against discrimination, which is already under way, and it means mobilising and guaranteeing the efficient involvement in this issue of the Racism and Xenophobia Monitoring Centre in Vienna.
Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, there are many people who actually wondered about the usefulness of the Durban Conference.
At least the Durban Conference had the advantage of bringing together the international community on an issue which is undeniably a subject of common concern to all countries, because racism is a scourge of worldwide proportions, and no country is free from racism or discrimination in one form or another.
I do not yet know, Mr Michel, whether it will constitute a success in the long term.
The second trap is the issue of reparations.
Some people would have liked reparations to be the main subject of the debate.
If one draws up a list of victims, of course, there is a risk that the next thing that will be drawn up is a hierarchy of victims, and some may be regarded as being more victims than others, which seems to me to be completely unproductive as far as racism and discrimination are concerned.
Fortunately, essential partners such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch disassociated themselves from the final declaration, but perhaps it will be necessary to sort out the assistance that we are able to give to the NGOs, many of which, over there, have lost all sense of responsibility to say the least.
Let us therefore exploit those 225 articles to find means of action that we can put into practice.
This point will feature in the joint resolution.
Anyway, this point raises the issue of the renegotiation of the Institutional Agreement of 5 July 2000.
You will find this proposal again in the joint resolution which will very shortly be put to the vote in this House.
I say renewed because racism in its many forms has reared its head again, with the tragic events in New York and Washington.
That illustrated the tragedy of this conference, because I felt I attended two conferences.
We were determined to define for the first time racism in its many international forms, whether caste, a contemporary slavery, or whether discrimination against minorities within our own European Union and indeed the candidate countries.
Instead, we as a European Union united, the Commission, the Belgian Presidency - which did an excellent job - those who attended the conference and all of us within this House who want to tackle racism must unite to go back to the original agenda.
That original agenda is one which may embarrass some individual countries, but the action programme is now there.
I agree with the President-in-Office and the Commissioner that the conference can be described as a qualified success.
For the first time in 25 years of trying, international standards were set on the human rights of those vulnerable to racial discrimination.
These themes also dominated or sought to hijack the intergovernmental conference.
The document produced by the NGO forum was so bad that the Secretary-General, Mary Robinson, was unable to recommend it to the governments.
I particularly remember a woman talking about the problems of internal migrants in China.
This lack of honesty detracted from the conference.
He displayed great personal commitment to ensure that the European Union spoke with one voice and a determination - even if sometimes a grim determination - to reach agreement.
It is a pity that the EU as such is not represented in the UN system, so that the Commission and Parliament are only observers, although the President-in-Office did a very good job.
We have to find a way of strengthening the ability of all the European institutions to carry on taking a leading role in international human rights and anti-discrimination work.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, participation in the World Conference in Durban was important, as a solemn proclamation of the renewal of an alliance against discrimination and the rejection of respect for human rights, and above all as an opportunity for reconciliation, the only way to reconstruct the future and future peace.
We have to find the right words to provide a solution.
We find that the final text talks of remorse and regrets, but refuses to give any excuses, and still less to envisage the prospect of reparations, or to reaffirm people' s right to live in peace and equality, without having to have recourse to international law.
This declaration not only calls into question the credibility and effectiveness of major international meetings, but also raises the question of direct democracy, because in effect it raises the issue of how representative the limits of participative democracy really are.
The NGOs' declaration, however hard it might have been, was a good pretext for avoiding any issues with a bearing on the major interests which it was not thought desirable to offend, as well as the issue of reparations.
Do not forget that the rich countries of the North built their prosperity on the negro slave trade and on colonial conquest, and they are not all willing to recognise this fully or to make reparation for their past crimes.
Those powers are still, all too often, supported, and they too prefer to focus on an issue such as that of the Middle East, where they can make a good impression, rather than be called to account for the human rights situation in their own countries.
Commissioner, Mr President, the final declaration and action programme adopted in Durban was only possible due to the constructive and essential role played by the European Union.
I also regret the fact that few industrialised countries were represented, and I believe that many countries interpreted this as a lack of interest in the conference.
These NGOs, or so-called NGOs, these pseudo-NGOs, were not at Durban to defend the Palestinians, they were not there to defend the anti-racists, they were not even there in favour of peace between Israelis and Palestinians.
In my view, it is a positive sign that the final declaration acknowledges the right of Palestinians to their own land and that, at the same time, we reject any equation of Zionists with racists, in the same way as in Durban.
I must therefore ask, as you did, Commissioner, that we know exactly who these NGOs are, what their purpose is and how they are funded before we hold another conference.
And I hope that all countries and former colonial powers follow the example of France acknowledge slavery and the slave trade, or are made to acknowledge it by their national parliaments, as a crime against humanity.
Lastly, I regret that there was no mention of the death penalty in the United States, and part of the reason the United States delegation left was because it did not want to talk about racism in its own country.
The European Union' s task is, first of all, to carefully monitor the use of new technologies, such as the Internet, which can be used to incite racial hatred; to speed up the implementation of Article 13; to explain the annihilation of the American Indians, slavery, colonialism and the Holocaust in our textbooks and history books, and also the Sabra and Chatila massacres.
I believe that racism and anti-Semitism have one aspect in common with terrorism.
Mr President, the resolution of the World Conference against Racism held in Durban is not exactly what many would have hoped for.
This compromise resolution makes it very clear that much more needs to be done, especially in relation to our understanding of other cultures and religions.
Islam, I have said many times, has in many ways been demonised, mostly by people who know nothing about it.
Durban was not a failure, nor was it indeed a great success; but it re-emphasised the imperative to make racism a crime, something I have called for many times in this House.
European governments have a responsibility to show leadership in the area of racism and xenophobia and politicians and civic leaders are failing to address the issue of racism in their own communities.
Just let me remind the House that no religion - or political movement for that matter - is without its fundamentalists.
The choice made by Israel and the United States served to show the world public what was in danger of happening, that a group of countries, mostly non-democratic with total contempt for their own people, was attempting to exploit the Conference in order to take sides in international politics.
The image of dictatorships which oppress their own people, their own race and their own flesh and blood, of dictators and their representatives who have the gall to preach antiracist sermons at the United Nations, is an effective illustration of the obstacles facing the international community.
Mr President, the World Conference against Racism, in conjunction with the United Nations-sponsored International Decade of the World's Indigenous People, has been a unique opportunity to consider the challenges and dangers faced by these peoples and all Stateless nations.
Through that paragraph the United Nations Summit tried to exclude all these peoples from the right to self-determination recognised by the United Nations itself and international covenants.
In response to such inadmissible discrimination and intolerance, the NGO forum in Durban denounced very strongly the new expression of neo-colonialists that will, in the long run, provoke the decimation of the cultures and civilisations of these vulnerable peoples.
That would have saved the world community a great deal of money, time and embarrassing moments.
I also welcome the sound and balanced provisions on the Middle East, which emphasise the right to an independent State for the Palestinians as well as Israel' s safety.
The United Nations Conference on Racism is of particular relevance in these turbulent times, when there is bloodthirsty talk and behaviour in the name of a confrontation between civilisations.
The majority of ethnic conflicts which involve thousands of victims and regrettable human situations take place in developing countries, mainly in Africa.
In this resolution, we ask the Commission for financial support for the administrations of the developing countries for the implementation of national action plans to eliminate all kinds of discrimination, as was agreed at Durban.
We also ask for support for the United Nations so that it can carry out the monitoring of the results of Durban, so that the fight against racism may remain on the international agenda until it is eradicated.
The important thing is that we in the European Parliament are able to clearly repeat our message with one voice, to journalists, to the media, against racism and in favour of equality and integration.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I find it a very positive indicator that this conference was held in Durban; that there were wide-ranging discussions; that a resolution was drafted; and that there has been a conclusion.
This is an opportunity for our European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, the World Conference on Racism in Durban was overshadowed from the outset by a political strategy of discrimination.
All people of Arab origin or from an Islamic cultural background are in danger of having the deeds of a small terrorist group laid at their door.
Mr President, the European Union bears a particular responsibility in the fight against racism and racial discrimination.
The action plan adopted on 8 September in Durban is an important message and a contribution to creating awareness in the fight against racism and xenophobia.
Although many, but not all, NGO's and also many States strenuously attempted to convert the Conference into a unilateral forum of condemnation of Israel and to make the issue of slavery and colonialism an opportunity for demanding compensation payments, it can be counted a success that the Final Document did not take up extreme positions of this sort and that it came into being at all.
With hindsight, however, we must ask ourselves whether the European Union's generous support for the NGOs, which I consider justified in principle and which amounted to EUR 3.7 million, always found its way to the right destinations, all the more so as agitprop arguments to the effect that, for example, Zionism is equivalent to racism, are very much part of the political vocabulary of many States, Syria being one example.
The biggest terrorist attack to date against the civilised world took place three days after the Durban Conference.
None other than President Mubarak of Egypt has pointed out that human rights issues are often misused by terrorist organisations in order to build up their international networks.
Mark well, though, that human rights and the fight against racial discrimination and xenophobia are indivisible and of global significance.
Nobody is immune, as demonstrated by the ethnic conflicts in the Balkans and the most recent tragic events in Northern Ireland.
The Durban Action Plan is an important document for every State, but also for the European Union as a whole, which bears great responsibility in this respect, above all in the framework of the United Nations.
Mr President, the debate on the outcome of the UN Conference on Racism is particularly topical following the tragic events on 11 September.
According to the international press, the majority of the public in Holland, 62% to be precise, in a country with a long tradition of democracy, considers that the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington will seriously impede the social integration of Muslims in Holland.
At the same time, there is support in Germany for reviewing the legislative framework governing religious organisations.
During this morning' s debate on asylum and immigration, several members in the House expressed anti-Islamic views.
These developments are most worrying.
Fighting terrorism and dispensing justice should never call our democratic achievements and respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights into question.
The shadow declaration which preceded the NGO Conference on Racism, in which Israel was accused of racism - without any simultaneous condemnation of anti-semitism - created a distorted starting point for the UN conference.
We Members of the European Parliament, too, have seen with our own eyes how anti-semitism appears in the form of naked racism in Palestinian textbooks.
The tone of debate was unfair to Israel when account is taken of its past and the obvious desire of hostile States to deny Israel's very right to exist.
Mr President, the Durban Conference provided an important opportunity to condemn the phenomenon of racism and xenophobia, sending out a clear and powerful message, the need for and importance of which remain highly relevant today.
The Durban Conference, however, was much more than an exercise in the duty of remembrance.
Unfortunately, some people have succumbed to the Manichean philosophy, lacking in any historical rigour, that gives Europe a disproportionate and over-simplified responsibility for all the evils and oppression associated with racism, such as the use of slavery.
The European Union' s political responsibility for affirming the universal values inherent to human dignity is both domestic and international because it is inherent to the most intimate raison d' tre of our common project.
And we can even question whether or not the European Union could perhaps at some point contemplate doing this, in other words, glean from the Durban Conference a basic framework, which would facilitate the roll-out of the Durban achievements in each Member State.
I think that the Commission has already been working on this matter for some time.
Naturally, I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity to thank all the speakers who have expressed their appreciation of my work, which is much too generous.
This is a particularly important subject for the European Union, I am aware of this, and what is more, I share this concern.
As you know, the European Union is concerned about situations involving discrimination throughout the world; therefore it was natural that we also express this concern.
Unfortunately, despite all the efforts of the European Union and other countries, particularly South America, it was not possible to reach an agreement with India on this paragraph.
The European Union supported a paragraph of the action programme referring to racial discrimination in the application of the death penalty.
The United States strongly opposed this paragraph during the preparatory process, however, and several countries, particularly those in Asia, also rejected it and, without consensus, it was not possible to retain this text either.
As stressed in the documents adopted at Durban, civil society, and NGOs therefore, have an important role to play in the fight against racism.
Some NGOs, such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and FIDH, also disassociated themselves from the forum' s outcome.
Moreover, we must admit that the aggressive approach and disgraceful verbal abuse from some NGOs raises the question as to why the European Union and its Member States as well - my own country included - give their unconditional support to these organisations.
I am not therefore willing to let this prerogative be taken away from me because, when this system of political responsibility ceases to exist, we would no longer have a democracy, in other words.
However, when it came to defining potential sources of these many forms of discrimination, it was not possible to include concepts that the European Union considers to be important, such as discrimination based on sexual orientation.
In accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I have received six motions for resolutions to end the debate.
The debate is closed.
I should also like to pay tribute to a number of people who have worked on this report, not just within the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market but also within the Commission and the Council.
There are something like 35 million registered disabled people within the European Union; we have 120 million elderly people.
The outcome of tomorrow's vote will very largely decide what their quality of life in the future will be.
I realise that some of my colleagues on the right of this House have had difficulties with this directive, mainly because of its technical nature.
The Commissioner is well aware of the contents of the report and probably could recite them as well as I could.
It is important that we finally, after five long years, bring this to a close.
The buses are only part of it.
We have suggested that the Commission should bring to us on an annual basis a comprehensive report on its plans for future motor vehicle regulation, specifying where it is going to use the Economic Commission for Europe proposals and, indeed, covering some of the voluntary regulation process that we have talked about.
That will allow this Parliament, through all its various committees, to take a serious look at the political content of regulation and not ever again become immersed for five years in this sort of complex, technical regulation - a process that we finally sign off this evening.
Mr President, one of the objectives of the directive is to improve access to public transport for persons of reduced mobility.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate about this directive is above all a dispute about principles, about whether we, in the European Union of the future, want the principle of harmonisation, that of mutual recognition or the 'third version' - where do we need the one and where the other?
We have achieved only a small partial success with this directive on the EC procedure for approving vehicle types because, of course, national procedures for type approval still apply concurrently with, and in addition to, the directive which is now being laid down.
The state of affairs we will be deciding on tomorrow is such that we have now even fixed the curvature of the rear panel of a bus at a normative maximum of 150 mm.
I should like to stress that, with this directive, the European Community will be setting the pace and enabling the industry to compete under common rules to produce safe and more accessible buses and coaches for the benefit of all European public transport users.
This directive makes significant progress in three areas, namely the internal market, the transport policy and the social policy of the Community.
The access provisions for buses and coaches as regards boarding by persons with reduced mobility will ensure that a larger proportion of our citizens use public transport.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon on Wednesday.
The longer the European Union hesitates in getting the European satellite navigation system underway, the more both industry and the people will react to it with apathy.
I hope that it will be by a large majority that Parliament will adopt my report tomorrow and thus support the position that Europe urgently needs a satellite navigation system of its own, not least in view of the special situation in which Europe and the rest of the world find themselves since 11 September.
The Council also holds this fundamental view, as again confirmed by the final conclusions from Stockholm.
The fundamental issue is now as it was before: why do we need a European satellite navigation system of our own, when the Americans have already supplied a working model in the form of GPS?
Secondly: we are pressing for free competition not only within the EU, but also worldwide.
We must commit ourselves to the best interests of our citizens and users.
Fourthly: GALILEO creates employment in Europe.
In my report, I have described at length the advantages and positive aspects for the various fields of application.
These advantages become all the more convincing if we succeed in involving other countries in the project.
Furthermore, at a meeting of EU transport ministers in April 2001, it became clear that the Union had major problems finding the extra EUR 1.5 billion required from private sources for the deployment phase (2006-2007) of GALILEO.
On the other hand, the Commission states that when it issued a call for an expression of interest in order to establish the conditions needed in order to set up a public-private partnership, several European industrial consortia responded to this, without reference to any further problems.
I would like to make it clear that I support the Commission' s approach in principle.
This would ensure that no restrictions are placed on other activities financed under heading 3 if GALILEO does not attract the investments foreseen by the Commission.
Our Committee acknowledges the benefits of such a programme, the main feature of which is that it is European as well as civilian in nature, and is therefore independent of systems developed by the military, such as the American GPS and Russian GLONASS systems, and that is reliable and has greater precision than these two existing systems.
We are proposing, however, that the following points be implemented during the development and validation phase from 2001 to 2005, the deployment phase from 2006 to 2007, and the operation phase, which begins in 2008, essentially under the aegis of the European Space Agency and the Commission.
Secondly, we stress the fact that the structures established during the development of the programme should be used solely for civilian purposes, and we point out that it is vital, in this case, to develop the use of space for purposes related to the general interest and public service.
It must, in particular, be developed in order to protect and safeguard the environment, to protect the lives of citizens and natural resources, and ensure early detection and even prevention of natural or man-made disasters.
It must also contribute to progress in European research, when drawing up the future Sixth Framework Programme.
Lastly, we are proposing - and this is important - to set up an advisory ethics committee, whose task would be to ensure respect for the aforementioned requirements and which would assist the Commission and the European Space Agency in their decision-making duties.
Of course, we cannot say that, 'we will not vote in favour of GALILEO if it is used by the military in the future' , because, when we set up transport and communication systems, for instance, anyone can use them.
Madam President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, competition stimulates business, as the example of the motor industry over the last 100 years has shown.
The fact that there were at least three major production centres, the USA, Europe and Asia, was extremely good for business all round.
Airbus is another good example of what can be achieved by exposure to international competition, if we are not simply content for other people to make a good product that we can buy or even use free of charge like the GPS.
The Russian GLONASS is probably not entirely in the same category.
Almost more important and quite central from my point of view as a university teacher is that we have no real involvement in technological innovation if we are not engaged in development ourselves, if we do not carry out research ourselves and if we do not ourselves take research to the applications stage so that it can also go into industrial production.
Finally a word of thanks and appreciation to the two ladies who have made such a big contribution to this evening' s report, the rapporteur Brigitte Langenhagen and the Transport Commissioner Loyola de Palacio.
I hope that the same will happen tomorrow when the House votes on the report, since this is a particularly important, even historic text for the European Union.
The European Union is a major power.
Europe is a major player in the aviation and space industries, but the European Union does not have aviation and space power, since it has never had a policy in this area until now and, as Mrs Langenhagen said, GALILEO is a historic beginning for us, our first Community programme.
GALILEO represents the political independence of the European Union, since, as you are aware, we had no frequency access during the Kosovo war due to the American GPS system, and as things stand at the moment, we cannot count on the American system being completely reliable in the coming years.
I therefore believe that it is crucial that we consider the success of GALILEO as vital in ensuring the EU' s credibility over the next few years in an area where competition in the aviation and space industries is increasingly marked, particularly when faced with new competition, for instance from China or Japan.
Let us be clear about one thing - in the space industry, as in all the other transport industries, nothing can be achieved without State funding and without a boost from the government, whether this is direct State funding or so-called co-funding, along the lines of the American model, where the military sector funds the civilian.
We shall not vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left or the amendment by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party on the funding method, whereby the GALILEO programme must be halted if private sector investment is not sufficient.
International developments underline the importance of having a system of our own, but at the same time, of establishing sound international cooperation, so that interoperability of the system can be achieved.
To the ELDR Group, it is important that the management is transparent, and we are already glad of a major step forward by the Council, namely the proposal to set up a single administrative structure in agreement with Article 171 of the Treaty.
The wrong arguments are being used in order to sell a project.
As a result, it is slightly more reliable and communication is possible.
The subsequent systems CAS I and CAS II are commercial and intended for the government, while the latter system is also used for military purposes.
In summary, all those technological features which have been listed, also for transport, are also very much part of the current system.
I will not enter into the detail of the arguments, but at this moment in time, in the light of 11 September, I do not find it necessary to highlight the need of such a system once again.
The problem in this connection is that it is the same people who have freed up tens of billions for UMTS.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mrs Langenhagen, the GALILEO project is technologically interesting and already has a lot of potential applications.
Thirdly, there is another aspect to this GALILEO project.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the development of a European satellite radio navigation programme raises various questions that warrant our consideration.
The strategic importance of political decisions which must be taken for the project to a large extent explain the hesitation that the Council has shown, despite the commitment and enthusiasm that both the Commission and the European Parliament have demonstrated in their statements and in the documents they have drafted.
This cooperation is fundamental, not only because of the future installation in various parts of the world of control centres and communication equipment to support the around thirty satellites that will also have to be sent into space, but also because the success of a project of this nature clearly depends on its interoperability with other, existing systems: the North American GPS and, to a lesser extent, the Russian GLONASS.
The GPS system and the radio navigation by satellite that this allows have been used successfully by the whole world, particularly in Europe.
The reasons that the European Union must use in its definition 'Development, installation and use' of a system of this type are, of course, quite different.
And, lastly, the installation and use of the system would enable the development of a public or private partnership of enormous strategic value to support sectors as important as transport (maritime, air or terrestrial), air traffic management, search and rescue, meteorology, mobile telephony and so many others.
It is for all of these reasons, which I have briefly summarised, that we give our support to the GALILEO project, in the hope of thereby contributing to the construction of a genuine Europe of the future.
Despite the fact that, according to the Commission, only 150 km of high-speed link can be built for the funding initially required, any amount is too high if it does not yield clear advantages.
In this case, the advantages should mainly be in the field of reliability and price.
Despite the civil line of approach, the system will also boast a military component in time.
However, the most important aspect to us is that the system could play an unwelcome role in the relations between the European Union and the United States of America.
For it is very much the question whether the use of satellite signals will be better and more efficient than it is at present.
It is equally obvious that international collaboration with the United States and Russia is essential, not just in order to reduce the huge costs but also because the question of frequencies can be regulated so as to guarantee reliability by ensuring that enough frequencies are available for GALILEO to provide a broad range of services.
I think the Commission should give a prompt response here.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to thank you once again for the European Parliament' s constant and determined majority support for the GALILEO satellite navigation programme.
I would like to insist on the importance of this proposal which is intended to establish a single management structure for the programme at the beginning of 2002.
Given that the timetable is so tight, it is essential that Parliament can issue its opinion on this proposal before the end of the year.
In accordance with the conclusions of the Transport Council of last April, we have implemented a study of the services which GALILEO may offer, the income it may generate and the methods for collecting it.
This study must be finished in the coming weeks so that the Transport Council in December may take the decisions necessary for the programme to move ahead.
As the motion for a resolution clearly states, international cooperation is essential to the GALILEO programme.
Its objective is to guarantee the interoperability of GALILEO with the existing radio-navigation systems, such as the American GPS or those in preparation, such as the Russian GLONASS.
In this respect - and some of you have wondered whether or not it is necessary - I would like to say that the idea is that they are compatible and that they benefit each other mutually.
Ladies and gentlemen, after what happened last month, the need for a second system which reinforces the existing system and which provides greater security and is, when the time comes, not only a complement, but also an alternative in the event of possible unwanted situations - when we are seeing a huge increase in the applications which affect all the areas of our lives relating to GALILEO - is absolutely essential, not only for Europe, but for the whole world, including the users in the United States.
It is also important that we have the support of third countries so that we might have the necessary frequencies, principally within the framework of world radio communications conferences - the next one being in 2003.
As you know, the allocation of frequencies is due to be consolidated in 2003.
When this happens, it should aid participation in the development of the GALILEO programme.
The development phase, which should last from 2002 until the end of 2005, should allow the launch of the first satellites with a view to testing the system in reality and allow the receivers sector to bring those receivers into line.
Your support is absolutely essential and, in any event, we will keep this House fully informed of all the steps we take in relation to this project.
Thank you, Mrs De Palacio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon on Wednesday.
Energy efficiency labelling for office equipment The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0298/2001), by Mrs McNally, on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation on a Community Energy Efficiency Labelling Programme for Office and Communication Technology Equipment (6760/1/2001 - C5-0246/2001 - 2000/0033(COD)).
Madam President, I am very pleased to present my recommendation for second reading on the Energy Star agreement.
I wish to thank the Commission, the Council and my colleagues, in particular the shadow rapporteurs, for their help in steering through this rather complex procedure.
The Council common position takes on board most of the points made by Parliament at first reading.
We shall have an earlier review than was expected; we shall have an update on new technological advances in this area of energy efficiency; we shall have a report to Parliament.
Furthermore, the United States' authorities are absolutely clear that Parliament is involved in discussions on the Energy Star programme from the Commission's point of view.
I know many colleagues agree with me that in future we should work as a European Union and have European Community schemes rather than attempting to latch on to schemes developed elsewhere, in the United States for example.
They are demand-side management and two important directives: one on household appliances and one on office equipment - not made in the USA.
I hope that during this autumn, under the Belgian Presidency, we will see both of those draft directives adopted.
I think we are all agreed that the more efficient use of energy is a very important contribution to solving our energy problems.
The amendment in front of us says, after all, that one such way forward might be a voluntary agreement with industry.
If we achieve a good outcome this evening, we can avoid the conciliation procedure.
Suddenly a regulation that has occupied us here in this House for quite some time has become a small pebble in the mosaic of this changed world.
Unlike Mrs McNally I see no harm in adopting measures that are in place in the United States.
It is one of our aims in Europe to achieve common standards in the internal market.
I also hope that we manage to reach an agreement on the text which is acceptable to all of us.
I am sure that none of us want to go to conciliation if we can solve the problem in a more appropriate way, given that our positions are very similar.
This proposal is integrated into the Commission' s action plan to improve the energy efficiency of the European Union.
Office communication equipment represents a high proportion of the electrical consumption of the tertiary sector and we all agree that the use of efficient and ecological office equipment can contribute to the sustainable development strategy decided at the European Council in Gothenburg.
The proposed programme for coordination of labelling, the Energy Star programme, will lead to significant reductions in electricity consumption and CO2 emissions, and is therefore very viable.
We perfectly understand the European Parliament' s concerns in relation to the effectiveness of the proposed Regulation on this specific point.
The Energy Star programme is not exactly the right place to include this incitement to renovation, modernisation and withdrawal of least efficient equipment.
Thank you, Mrs De Palacio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon on Wednesday.
Innovation must not take place only in the economy, but also in the social, cultural and above all the political fields.
Nevertheless - and I would like to correct the text here - we have 18 million SMEs in Europe with fewer than 250 workers.
We ought in future to provide an experience primarily with a European content, putting our European values, our European knowledge at centre stage on the Internet and in our education and learning programmes as well as being ready to engage in international competition.
We also need new systems in schools, however.
More to the point, it is the result of mutual and complex actions and reactions between education, research, the administration and the public.
In fact, innovation does not depend solely or exclusively on technological factors, it also depends on organisational factors.
That is how our society will work in new directions, opening up new paths.
Europe needs an approach to innovation which will directly serve society as a whole.
I should like to highlight this sector in particular, because we are still a long way from having the really efficient network of libraries in Europe that is an absolute must.
Finally, we should take steps to provide better protection for intellectual property because this is what can invigorate and foster the incentive for our scientists to innovate.
It is the subject of an excellent report by Mr Rbig, whom I would expressly like to congratulate on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
Mr Rbig has always been concerned with revitalising small and medium-sized enterprises.
His particular concern is important given that we have 18 million SMEs.
They need to be able to take all the current problems of the new economy into account.
I hope we have all learned something from that.
Thirdly, the operational programme should incorporate aid specifically to innovative firms or corporations in the SME sector, since - as already stated - 80 percent of taxes and 60 percent of jobs come from this sector.
As such, the medium-sized and small businesses are the most important economic factor in the European economy.
It is more important to simplify the participation of medium-sized and small businesses in the Sixth Framework Programme.
A government should therefore have a vision of regional profiles it would like in future.
As European legislators, we should pay particular attention to simplifying legislation and administration.
Enterprise and development activity is excessively restricted by bureaucratic impediments, and small and medium-sized enterprises in particular suffer from this.
It is a significant factor in innovation.
And last but not least: we need a revolution in thinking which would free us from orthodox thinking and modes of action.
New technology is not the key to a good future; we need non-conventional thinking in all fields, in firms as well as in public administration.
Madam President, Commissioner, with outstanding diligence and sometimes frightening consistency of purpose my fellow countryman Paul Rbig has again produced a report containing almost everything that is good and right.
Madam President, the role played by innovation in achieving the ambitious objectives set by the European Union in Lisbon has been mentioned by the rapporteur, whom I congratulate on his detailed report, and by previous speakers.
However, the importance of innovation to our economic and social development needs to be appreciated more both by the Member States and by the European Commission itself.
Equal opportunities should also apply geographically, given the huge discrepancies between the regions of the European Union when it comes to innovation.
Special units, such as the unit set up to manage innovative measures under Article 6 of the European Social Fund, are a step in the right direction, they just need to be adequately staffed to make them effective.
The 2001 European Innovation Scoreboard gives us a starting point for the Union' s strategy to enhance its overall competitiveness, by providing a common measure of a country's performance using 17 indicators.
EU performance in terms of growth and the standard of living relative to the US and Japan highlights the key challenges that the EU faces in enhancing its competitiveness.
In the past twenty-five years, and apart from temporary cyclical fluctuations, the EU has not kept pace with the US in improving its standard of living.
The overall strategy for boosting competitiveness requires us to better combine Union and Member State efforts to develop more effective policies to foster and support innovation.
National innovation policies should be reinforced, developed, and take a more consistent approach across the EU.
We trail significantly in terms of private-sector investment in research and development.
Rapid increases in business research and development in Japan and the US since 1994 have widened the gap with Europe alarmingly.
Japanese patenting in Europe is almost as strong as US patenting.
But change is important and positive.
The Union should: first, invest in education and training, as has been said here a few times; second, improve its performance in the high-tech sectors and promote entrepreneurship; third, help to step up business research and development by encouraging Member States to introduce or increase the necessary incentives; and finally, promote the use of technologies in all sectors of the economy, including public administrations.
I hope that there will be an opportunity to come back to these issues in the Commission' s 2001 Competitiveness Report, which will be presented in a few weeks' time.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon.
Exhaustion of trade mark rights The next item is the report (A5-0311/2001) by Mr Mayer, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the problem of the exhaustion of trade mark rights (SEC(1999)2033 - C5-0354/2000 - 2000/2187(COS)).
Madam President, I would like briefly to outline the underlying issues and the main points of my report.
The central statement is that the Commission is called upon to produce a detailed study of the possible implications of the transition to the principle of international exhaustion by 31 December 2002.
The Nera study presented by the Commission in 1999 fails to deal with this matter adequately.
A trade mark right has its effects only in the territory for which it was granted.
Community exhaustion applies to the Community mark and national marks when the holder of the right has put his product into circulation in the Community for the first time.
If the holder of the trade mark right puts his product into circulation outside the Community, the legal effects of the marks are not exhausted in the Community.
The main purpose of the mark is to make the product distinguishable and familiar and to indicate a certain product quality.
The division of markets to the disadvantage of consumers in the Community cannot be the objective of granting a Community trade mark.
A hearing before a Select Committee of the British House of Commons was also presented predominantly with arguments in favour of international exhaustion.
There is now an important new factor: the increasing amount of trade on the Internet.
Such a study must also draw comparisons with the world' s major trading nations and study and make a precise analysis of the implications for the EU labour market.
Madam President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Mayer who, in spite of some extremely polarised positions, listened and put forward an alternative in the form of a proposal for further consideration, which met with everyone' s approval.
This position is all the more important and necessary since the report refers to the crucial problems related to globalisation and European integration.
Some may be in favour of a total liberalisation of trade, whereas others, myself included, believe that the system of Community exhaustion responds to the need to develop the integration of the single market, a favourable way of supporting Europe in the face of global competition.
A change in the system could lead to a drop in investment in research and development of European products and the impact on jobs could be significant.
In the studies that are currently available, and I stress the 'currently' , we found no relevant information enabling us to justify a change to the system, which could be detrimental to innovation.
Legally, the judgment is unassailable from the moment that it states that Article 7 of the Trade Mark Directive, by establishing the principle of Community exhaustion, indirectly establishes the prohibition of international exhaustion.
When parallel imports from third countries are allowed, the prices of trade mark products drop.
And although my experience is of little scientific value, I must point out that I have been able to note how, in the United States, a product which in Spain costs me EUR 10, costs me just EUR 1.5.
For all these reasons and despite the reservations involved in finding a consensus in favour of a more ambitious resolution, it is important that the Commission takes the initiative in favour of consumers and brings forward proposals to strengthen the world market, removing barriers to trade, which are not just customs barriers, but which often consist of anti-competitive practices by companies whose aim is to defend their own profits.
Fine, but how long is that going to take when a parallel importer can be prevented from giving the consumer a quality product at a price which benefits them both?
It is important that the exhaustion regime for Trade marks which the Community applies provides for a proper balance between the interest of consumer prices and protection of Trade mark rights.
Mr Berenguer Fuster and the rapporteur have referred to alleged price increases in Germany of films, perfume and cameras.
As soon as this became known, the sectors concerned supplied statistics to the Commission to show that prices have not increased as was claimed, but have remained the same or in some cases even decreased.
The purported evidence concerning Germany is not what it seems to be and, in fact, supports the case that the Commission has put forward and not the case in favour of international exhaustion.
Moreover, there were considerable price differences between Member States.
In general, prices in Germany and France were lower than in the UK and in Sweden.
Those differences exist within the European Union where there is regional exhaustion for Trade mark rights and not international exhaustion.
In other words, for all Member States of the European Union the same exhaustion regime applies yet there is a 40% price difference in electronic goods between Sweden and Germany.
This certainly goes to show that the internal market is not performing as it should be, but it also shows that the differences in prices have nothing to do with whether the exhaustion regime is regional or international.
The price differences within the European Union usually exceed the price differences between EU Member States and the United States.
Trade marks are also of value to consumers because they represent a sign of quality.
The Commission decided in May 2000 that there is no reason, at least for the time being, to propose any change to the current regime.
The Commission considers that there is now a proper balance between the interests at stake and that the current Community-wide exhaustion regime is an appropriate way to protect the legitimate rights of Trade mark holders.
Many arguments have been put forward for and against a change of regime.
Having said this, the Commission intends to monitor the question of exhaustion closely and will certainly take any action necessary should new and important reasons emerge to consider abandoning the current exhaustion regime.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon on Wednesday. (The sitting was closed at 11.20 p.m.)
