Italy is therefore keenly aware of the moral and intellectual responsibility and honour of presiding over the Union in this constituent period, when we need to hold on firmly to the lessons of the past in order to build the future, to deal with new developments and seize opportunities that were previously unimaginable, and to overcome differences by finding new solutions, which in turn will enrich our shared project.
The Europe of today is great: it owes its greatness to its achievements, to its potential, to its proud contribution to peace and international law, but it owes its particular greatness to the specific technical expertise which it has brought to bear, overcoming every crisis, clash of interests and difference in vision by applying a common method, common rules and a common approach to adjusting both method and rules to the realities of a changing world.
If it is not driven by the enthusiasm of shared goals, negotiation can look very much like bureaucratic paralysis, a long and extenuating process of avoiding problems and procrastination.
The Italian Parliament, which has never feared the truth, has been acutely aware of the bouts of fatigue and the tendency to sell Europe short which have at times characterised our common European endeavour, and it has condemned those tendencies with frank, pro-European zeal.
With the self-confidence born of long experience and the humility needed to tackle crucial political issues, Italy will therefore do everything in its power and everything it feels is necessary to provide Parliament, the Commission and the governments of the European Council with the environment most conducive to taking informed, calm and responsible political decisions on our future.
The purpose of negotiation is, indeed, to enable decisions to be taken on substance, and the measure of our success in settling our differences will be whether it enables us to make a great leap forwards and to give our gradually integrating economies, our cultures, our foreign policy and our defence policy a new and efficient institutional shape.
A great Europe needs great institutions.
If the world calls for Europe to act authoritatively in tackling today's major challenges - the fight against terrorism, the reduction of inequalities and imbalances, world economic recovery - it is our duty to respond with a Union which can act decisively and therefore exert influence, a Union which can take resolute, clear decisions on the basis of a clear grasp of the common interest and commonly held convictions which are above any form of particularism.
If this web of different partnerships - at a different level of political integration - is again to live up to its ambitions and its civilising achievements, for the sake of peace and world security, relations between States must cease to be conducted in monologues and, instead, we must seek to reinstate open, genuine, honest dialogue.
Europe can be cured of its Hamlet syndrome and decide to become a wholehearted, active player on the world stage; it can acquire the diplomatic, economic and military means to perform that role convincingly, without jeopardising its autonomy, its roots or the great freedom-giving structures defended over the years within the framework of its Western alliances.
As we found at the recent Summit in Thessaloniki, there is deep, shared understanding of this, set out in the very valuable document coordinated by the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, Javier Solana, which seeks, in a new strategic vision, to overcome the differences that have emerged over recent months with regard to the tragic crisis in Iraq and developments in the crucial issue of the Middle East.
In the European Parliament, under its President, Pat Cox, and in the political groups with which we had an enjoyable, valuable meeting in Rome, we feel we have an attentive, patient partner but one which would not fail to hold us to account for our mistakes.
In the Commission and its President, Romano Prodi, we see the essential link ensuring continuity in the administration and day-to-day coordination of our institutional system.
The European Council, in both the reinvigoration of the plan for growth, based on large-scale investment in civil infrastructure, and the great constitutional opportunity presented by the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, will be the forum in which this six-month Union Presidency, which falls to Italy, will seek to define a bold but not reckless agreement on the major issues of institutional balance, the extension of qualified majority voting, the limits of the common foreign and security policy and the European area of justice.
We cannot overlook the fact that Member States' views on some of these questions still differ.
The Italian Presidency will do its utmost to bring about convergence of these positions although it is fully aware that the debate on the Convention's draft Constitutional Treaty cannot be completely reopened.
Thus, we will open the Intergovernmental Conference in October and keep the proceedings to a tight schedule with a view to reaching agreement by December. (Applause from the right) The European Parliament will be involved in the work of the Conference in the most appropriate manner.
With this in mind, I undertake to return here to address you after the opening of the Intergovernmental Conference and the day after the December European Council, so that we can review together what has been achieved.
The goal is to enable the future Constitutional Treaty to be signed sometime between 1 May 2004 (the date on which the ten new Member States will officially join the Union) and the elections in June 2004 for the next Parliamentary term.
On the basis of the annual operating programme presented jointly with the Greek Presidency at the beginning of 2003, the Italian Presidency has set out a number of specific initiatives.
The modernisation of agriculture, environmental protection, consumer protection and food safety are essential requirements for our citizens; in these areas Italy will steer work towards the goals identified by earlier Presidencies.
I will therefore confine myself here and now to three points which we feel are crucial for Europe's competitiveness.
The first point is the need to provide more effective support for the economy by increasing public and private investment with the cooperation of the European financial institutions, especially the EIB.
We consider that such a strategy should be based especially on boosting the policy of major Trans-European infrastructure networks.
The need here is to square the legitimate requirements of monetary stability and financial rigour - which must not be called into question in any way - with the need to stimulate economic growth more powerfully through investment in research and technological innovation as well as infrastructure, for we firmly believe that the European economy's most important resource is its human capital. (Applause from the right) The second priority is discussion of the sustainability of the European pension and welfare systems.
In this field, too, the opportunities offered by the great internal market which is being extended to include the ten new Members will elude the EU Member States unless they adopt a coordinated approach.
The European Union has proclaimed 2003 the 'European Year of People with Disabilities'.
In addition to the awareness-raising and information events and campaigns already organised, the Italian Presidency will endeavour to lay the foundations for legislative action to combat discrimination, for an instrument to protect people with disabilities in all aspects of daily life and give them a future of hope. (Applause from the right) Mr President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union also contributes to international stability, and its responsibility in this respect starts at its immediate borders and depends on its capacity to be open to increasingly advanced forms of cooperation with neighbouring countries.
During the current period between the signing and the entry into force of the Accession Treaties, we shall seek to ensure that the 10 new Member States participate fully in the work of the Council, making it easier for them to be fully integrated into the Union's institutional mechanisms.
At the same time, we shall attempt to establish by December a roadmap for Bulgaria and Romania which paves the way for the accession of both countries by 2007.
We shall continue the pre-accession strategy vis-à-vis Turkey on the basis of the conditions established at the Copenhagen European Council last December.
We know that the decision on the date for opening negotiations will not be taken until the end of next year, but, with this in mind, we consider it all the more advisable that the Union should actively support the reform process already initiated by the current Turkish Government.
If we compare the current situation to the situation 10 years ago, we can see that intervention by Europe and the United States made it possible to bring to an end the bloody conflicts of the former Yugoslavia, the last major European civil war, and we hope that this will also prove to be the last time that European blood is shed on European soil.
We believe it is now time to move on from the present phase of association and stabilisation agreements to a more integrated strategy, with a view to strengthening our relationship with the countries of the region.
We are aware of the complexity of this approach, but we also know that Europe is offering the only prospects able to provide the governments of those countries with an effective incentive to proceeding without delay along the path of reform, modernisation, the free market and the rule of law.
The Italian Presidency sees the invitation from the Commission, supported by the Member States, to encourage increasingly close relations with the areas closest to us to bring about what we have labelled 'Wider Europe', in a very positive light.
We shall therefore seek to strengthen our relations with Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova.
We shall likewise seek to consolidate relations with the Russian Federation particularly strongly through increasingly close dialogue and specific measures that are tangible confirmation of Russia's desire to belong to the political, economic, social and cultural fabric of Europe and the West.
We consider that the focus on Eastern Europe after the collapse of communism should now be mirrored by equal interest in the Euro-Mediterranean dialogue; this dialogue is crucial for relations between the West and the Islamic world, an issue we feel to be as important today as Eastern Europe has been in the past.
The economic and social development of the southern area of the Mediterranean is essential to world stability, in view of the culture, politics and demographics of the southern Mediterranean.
The integration of Europe's economy with that of the Arab countries is a major challenge of our time and is the key to peace and security in this area and in Europe as a whole.
On the basis of the decisions adopted by the Euro-Mediterranean Ministerial Conferences in Valencia and Crete and approved by the Thessaloniki European Council, the Italian Presidency endorses the wish expressed by the European Parliament and the national Parliaments to see a Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly established during this Presidency as a mark of a constant commitment to dialogue between Europe and the countries of the Mediterranean seaboard.
We wish to confirm our conviction that there is no incompatibility between a strong European undertaking and equally strong transatlantic solidarity.
The establishment of a solid, balanced transatlantic relationship also depends on a substantial European undertaking in the field of defence, in line with the NATO framework.
We are thinking in this particular instance of the need to establish a democratic civil fabric in the reconstruction of Iraq and support for the peace process in the Middle East.
There are at least two lines of action that we intend to promote: firstly, restoring a relationship of greater trust with Israel with a view to broader and more structured mutual cooperation, and, secondly, implementing the plan - already launched by Italy at European Councils and G8 Summits - for rebuilding the Palestinian economy, which could act as a tangible, effective incentive in negotiations between the parties.
I also wish to say that we shall work to strengthen our existing ties with Africa, to which we are bound through its unhappy history, with Asia, with the regional organisations and with the United Nations system to move forward together on the great challenges of the fight against poverty and disease, environmental protection and conflict prevention.
We will also focus on the balanced development of international trade as a source of greater well-being and reduction of inequalities - the subject of the World Trade Organisation Ministerial Conference in Cancun next September.
Above all, however, we will emphasise the need to include illegal immigration issues in relations between the Union and the countries of origin and transit of migration flows.
We must introduce effective forms of cooperation with some of our neighbours, especially in the Mediterranean and the Balkans, in the field of control and management of migration flows.
Our legitimate request for more effective cooperation from these countries in endeavours to prevent illegal immigration will be matched by willingness on our part to integrate citizens of third countries legally resident on Union territory.
Mr President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from my remarks just how sensitive and complex the challenges facing the European Union are, challenges to which our Presidency will endeavour to help find a solution in the limited time available, in a spirit of humility and service and in the full, firm knowledge that the security and prosperity of our future will depend increasingly on the process of European integration which has guaranteed us peace, freedom, security and well-being for half a century now.
The Europe of today is no longer the airy kite capable of playing the winds of history that it was at the time of the Treaty of Rome.
I have never pretended, however, that I was happy that certain reforms I consider indispensable - and which many have called for - have been tackled too timidly or not at all.
I am pleased that the strategy I proposed, the development of a ring of friendly countries, is starting to produce the anticipated results, and I welcome the unanimous support of the Heads of State and Government for this long-term European Union policy.
In this context, it is vital that we move on to the practical phase of the new neighbourhood strategy without delay, with specific action plans and new systems of assistance.
Perhaps the clearest example of this fact is the relationship between the United States and the European Union in the field of international trade.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, the toughest challenge we face is to restore the conditions for vigorous, balanced, enduring economic growth in the Union.
The situation is difficult: economic growth has slowed down significantly, although I do not believe there is any reason to speak of deflation.
At the same time, we must tackle the reform of Europe's social security system too.
The Commission is aware of how serious these challenges are and, in recent months, it has proposed two initiatives, which the European Council strongly supported.
Firstly, we proposed - and our proposal was taken up - to utilise all the flexibility in the Stability and Growth Pact so each country can adapt its fiscal policy to its own economic situation, without losing sight of the stability objectives and without overshooting the 3% limit laid down in the Pact.
At the same European Council, I voiced my concern that investment in research in the Member States has actually, without a doubt, declined compared with last year, while Europe's major firms are transferring a growing proportion of their research outside Europe.
In conjunction with the European Investment Bank, it is finalising an initiative to help to increase overall investment and private-sector participation in two key areas - trans-European networks and research and development projects - with a view to achieving the Lisbon targets.
The Commission is pleased to note that the Italian Government has recently expressed its firm support for this strategy.
The Commission is working to preserve and consolidate a strong and prosperous Europe that is also just and inclusive.
The greatness of the European project lies precisely in its capacity to foster and extend peace, democracy, justice, prosperity and solidarity.
In the autumn, we will be presenting our political project for the enlarged and reformed European Union for discussion at the December European Council under the Italian Presidency.
By 2007, the Union will have a new constitutional framework, in all likelihood 27 Members and a population of almost 500 million.
A time that calls for unity and a strong commitment to cooperation among all the Community institutions and between the institutions and the governments of the Member States.
Europe is the only way forward: without Europe, our countries and societies will be irreversibly relegated to a marginal role.
Think of the Treaty of Rome, think of the preparation of the Single European Act, think, on a more general note, of the enthusiasm and conviction with which Italy has helped to achieve the major goals of European integration, starting right here in this House with great Parliamentarians such as Altiero Spinelli and Emilio Colombo.
I hope that will be indicative of the success of the Italian Presidency that we all expect and hope for.
I would like to make a request to everyone, no matter what side of the House you are on, that certain debates taking place in all the Member States of the European Union should not be escalated to European level, and in that way prevent us from achieving our objectives at that level.
Just at the moment we cannot help thinking about 25 March 1957, when the Rome Treaties were signed on the Capitol in Rome.
I would like to repeat the sincere thanks I addressed yesterday to our representatives in the Praesidium of the Convention, Iñigo Méndez de Vigo and Klaus Hänsch, for the excellent work they have done.
My thanks to them also go to all the Members of this House who have participated in the Convention, including the chairman of our group in the Convention, Elmar Brok.
Yesterday, in the presence of the President of the Italian Parliament, Ferdinando Casini, of Helmut Kohl, Honorary Citizen of Europe, of the French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, and of many others, we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of our group, and it was made clear once again that we, in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, stand for a Community of Europe, because we know that a return to mere cooperation between governments would be a step backwards.
That is why Europe's institutions need to be strong, and in the final analysis that must be the outcome of the debate on the constitution.
We know at the same time that we Europeans have our roots in our home countries, in our own regions, and that our European citizenship flows from our nationalities and the countries from which we come.
If we can achieve that, it will for evermore be written in our history books that on 16 April 2003, 10 countries in Central and Southern Europe signed the accession treaties, and we will then have a European Constitution, signed in Rome, with effect from 1 May 2004.
The problem is when you tell us that the Commission must be abolished and that Russia and Israel must join the European Union tomorrow morning.
You have made a proposal on the participation of Parliament.
The Convention has taken place.
What we are also asking - and I hope that Parliament will approve this in its resolution - is that the Presidency should be obliged to provide information regularly, here and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, chaired by Giorgio Napolitano, and that we should be able to invite, as we do, representatives from national parliaments.
What we are proposing is the development of a constitutional right for all Europeans.
If you continue the work of the Greek Presidency with regard to transatlantic relations, we would consider that to be positive and we also believe that an important role can be played through the Quartet in the Middle East.
I very much appreciate what you have said in relation to Latin America, which is also a transatlantic issue, and above all in relation to Mercosur.
Your primary task will be to convene the IGC to examine the draft Constitution.
My group shares your ambition to finish this work as soon as possible, and in good time before next year's elections.
Yet the completion of the trans-European transport networks must be viewed as a means to an economic end - the smoother functioning of the internal market - and not as an end in itself.
As a British Liberal, I am delighted by the fidelity of your programme to John Maynard Keynes, and my delight is matched only by my surprise.
Your programme speaks much of consumers, but we are citizens first and foremost.
Market ideology tricks people into equating buying power with voting power, and it robs us of the civic freedom by which we control the social consequences of our private choices.
Where regulation is needed is where the gains from remedying market failure for citizens or the environment outweigh the costs of government intervention.
In Italian political debate this is the difference between liberalismo, in which we believe, and liberismo, which we very much reject.
My group supports the closer cooperation you propose with countries around the new borders of the EU, but we should not offer false hope of membership to our neighbours.
Closer relations with the Union must be linked to democracy, respect for human rights and development of a market economy.
Assistance in rebuilding the Palestinian economy must be conditional on action against terrorism, as improved cooperation with Israel must be conditional on progress in implementing the road map, notably on dismantling settlements.
You say very little in your programme about CAP reform and yet at present every cow in Europe gets a subsidy of EUR 2 a day, while one billion of our fellow citizens worldwide must survive on less than EUR 1 a day.
When you tell us you are concerned about Europe's reputation 'Cercheremo di fare bella figura per l'Europa', lei ha detto, please bear in mind that white Caucasians are in a minority on our planet.
We hope that you will be guided in justice and home affairs by the balanced approach of the Greek Presidency, rather than by the tenor of Seville.
Mr President-in-Office, your country assumes the presidency following a highly successful Hellenic Presidency, marked by the search for compromise and agreement.
Liberal Democrats in this House hope that in your tenure in the Chair you will, in your words and actions, respect the dignity of the office and honour Italy's traditional European vocation.
This other Europe is one emancipated from US tutelage and daring to make another voice heard in the great international institutions in order, together with its allies from the South, to tackle the open wounds that make the planet less and less safe and habitable and that go under the names of poverty, underdevelopment, environmental disaster and war.
Relying upon private capital to carry out such work that will only be profitable in the very long term is, however, to head towards certain failure in the areas of employment, growth and quality of services.
If the current constitutional process is to have any meaning, let us begin by ensuring compliance with Article 2 of the draft Constitution, devoted to the values of the EU and worded as follows: 'The Union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, liberty, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
These values are common to the Member States in a society of pluralism, tolerance, justice, solidarity, and non-discrimination'. (Applause from the left) Mr President, as we know, Europe is a continent of widely differing peoples and cultures, but one thing is certain: there is nothing surprising in the concern which has greeted your arrival at the helm of the Union.
Italy is tainted with a stain which could well spread to the rest of the new Union: an extraordinary concentration of power, primarily economic and media power but also political power, which has placed you in a position, inter alia, where you are now above the law.
It is not true that only three of the 14 projects decided on at Essen were executed because of a lack of funds: if there were not enough investors, one reason is that the appropriateness, socio-economic viability and - we would add -environmental sustainability of many of those projects were not guaranteed.
We must recapture the spirit of the Delors plan and two powerful principles contained in the Commission's White Paper on Transport Policy, which I am afraid we sometimes all appear to disregard: investments must serve not just to fill Europe with infrastructure but to promote economic and social cohesion too.
We must banish the idea that economic growth must of necessity go hand in hand with transport growth, for, otherwise, we will soon find ourselves stuck in a permanent traffic jam.
It makes no sense to invest 15 years of work in a 54-km tunnel for the Turin-Lyons link, drilling a hole through a mountain full of asbestos, when modernising and enhancing the present line would make it possible to absorb twice as much freight traffic in five years.
Your government, President-in-Office, has changed the laws on waste so as to make monitoring more difficult, even though 11 million tonnes of waste are lost without trace and the turnover of the ecomafia is estimated to be around EUR 2.5 billion every year in Italy.
For this year, it has appropriated EUR 56 million for protected areas, which is less than the cost of building 1 km of motorway tunnel.
In this matter too, as in the issue of the media, we feel that this is a situation specific to Italy.
President-in-Office, as regards foreign policy, we would all like to benefit from your excellent relations with President Bush, but certainly not to organise an impossible contest in military expenditure, maybe reducing contributions to development cooperation organisations in order to fund the Italian presence in Iraq.
We would like to know, President-in-Office, whether you are going to press ahead with and update the action plan for the Court, which was adopted in May 2002.
Then you are on excellent terms with President Putin.
We must adopt an initiative, and we will support you if you do so, with a view to convening a regional conference for the Caucasus in which all the current conflicts can be addressed without fail.
It is our hope that, with regard to the preamble, the Intergovernmental Conference will come to an agreement on the acknowledgement of the roots from which the Union has sprung to life.
The ancient history of Greece and Rome, the Judaeo-Christian traditions and the secular, liberal values which came gradually to be established cannot be disregarded because it is from them that the future of Europe is drawing cultural and moral strength.
We can see, moreover, that it would be appropriate to reflect once again on the need for there to be a European Commissioner for each Member State, in order to achieve greater cohesion between all the institutions.
The Italian Presidency has some extremely arduous tasks ahead of it and we are confident that, in the spirit of cooperation that it will foster with the other European institutions, with the Members of the European Parliament, the elected representatives of the people, it will give fresh impetus to the process of unifying Europe and to Europe's role in the world.
The urgency of the migration issue demands an overall view.
As I had occasion to write on the eve of the Thessaloniki Summit, only Europe, not least through a new Mediterranean policy and, at last, adopting a new principle of cooperation with the poorest countries, will be able to stop illegal migration of biblical proportions becoming a collective tragedy.
I look forward to the European border police corps and the new agreements with third countries, I look forward to reinforced cooperation in combating organised crime, terrorism and fundamentalism, but the issue of a European approach to the globalisation of the markets must be addressed too, to prevent cultures and traditions becoming fragmented and dying out.
A healthy social market economy cannot continue to accommodate unrestrained financial speculation such as that we have witnessed in recent years, which has broken out intermittently without there being any attempt to destroy its roots, to eradicate its causes.
The health of the economy also depends on the parameters governing our actions, and one good parameter is that the financial economy must move at the same rate as the real economy.
To combat the new forms of poverty which are emerging increasingly in the countries of the Union, we feel that it is vital for Europe to have a stronger energy policy which, based on seeking new sources and more efficient use of known sources, goes hand in hand with preserving those environmental values without which the very life of the planet would be endangered.
At the same time, the issue of funding for research must be addressed: without substantial increases European research will not reach a level of excellence, with all the predictable ensuing consequences.
Today, Europe is called upon not just to uphold the right to life of its citizens and of all human beings but to send out the message that all people have the right to a dignified life.
The relentless combating of terrorism and the consolidation of peace are dependent, not least, upon Europe's ability to deliver what it has promised over the course of recent years: the right to a dignified life, Mr President, not least in order to put an end to practices involving physical mutilation, to which many women are subjected in their countries of origin, suffering this abuse in Europe too.
We therefore call for the drawing up of rules to stop a tool which exists to facilitate communication between citizens being transformed into a tool for use by those who violate the laws of the national states of the Union.
To cite just one example: when the Treaty of Maastricht introduced common citizenship, it was expressly stated in writing that citizenship had no direct effect.
The people and the elected representatives should be aware of all the consequences of the Constitution before it is adopted.
It would be nice to know the answer before the Constitution is signed.
On 7 June, Mr Berlusconi, in Jerusalem, you said, and I quote: 'In the future, Europe must include Israel.
By the way, it is liberalismo, Mr Watson, not liberismo: here we have had liberalism for a century.
Giulio Tremonti talks of 'Colbertism' rather than 'Keynesianism', but when all is said and done ?
As far as the rest is concerned, I wish you and us all luck.
Europe has chosen Rome to be the venue for the signing of the first Constitution: this is a political result of great significance, an historic act of recognition for Italy and for its freely elected government.
This recognition will encourage and support it in its work over the coming months, Mr President-in-Office - work which I am certain will enable us to achieve the objectives you have set out in this House.
The text we approved at the conclusion of the Convention's work certainly leaves room for improvement but, as you said, it represents a fundamental working basis that cannot be misinterpreted.
Your programme, which we in the European People's Party endorse, is mapping out for tomorrow a reunified Europe, which is an ally of the United States but is capable of shouldering responsibilities that until now it has been unable to take on.
In defining a balanced system of Council, Commission and Parliament - we in this House acknowledge, Mr President-in-Office, that you have underlined the importance of the role that the European Parliament plays and will continue to play in the IGC - and in designating a President of the Council and a Minister for Foreign Affairs, the new Treaty will provide an answer to the question 'Where is Mr Europe?', which anyone looking for clear interlocutors in our continent might ask.
The Constitution is, however, merely an instrument: its provisions cannot produce an effect if the political will is lacking.
Mr President-in-Office, your speech clearly showed Italy's decision to give great weight to the Union's actions abroad.
If we so desire, Europe - with its attention turned towards the east and also the south - can play a leading role in promoting peace, progress, security, development and social justice, not least for the weak and those with disabilities, as you mentioned.
A Constitution and political will alone, however, are not enough to make reality the project of the likes of Konrad Adenauer, Robert Schuman, Alcide De Gasperi, Jean Monnet, Gaetano Martino and Altiero Spinelli.
I hope that the IGC will want to include an explicit reference to our Judaeo-Christian roots in the preamble to the secular Constitution of our Europe because, if we lose sight of our origins, we shall not succeed in treading new paths or looking towards those new horizons that tomorrow's Europe must reach.
The unresolved conflict of interests remains a legitimate source of concern that extends well beyond our own country.
This proposal can only make headway if it adopts a truly European perspective, if it is firmly anchored in the Community method and is financially viable.
In these matters, however, the method of consulting the social partners has to be followed, as laid down in the Lisbon strategy.
Friendship, however, is a relationship that must not fall into subservience.
After the difficult Iraqi crisis, it is therefore even more urgent to define a sound common foreign and security policy, backed by overthrowing the right of veto.
A clear framework for the Union's foreign relations was drawn up at Thessaloniki, distinguishing further prospects of enlargement from closer relations with our neighbours; in this context, after the contradictory statements that you and your Minister for European Policies have made regarding Turkey, we hope that what you told us this morning will stand.
In the next six months Europe must start moving faster; the constitutional treaty for a Europe of 25 should make the world realise whether our continent will continue to be a driving force for economic and social progress and, after the serious Iraqi crisis, whether it will equip itself with effective means to take a leading role in matters of security and freedom in partnership with the United States, in a new multilateral cooperation.
As a European, therefore, I hope for a successful Italian Presidency working in close collaboration with the Commission under Romano Prodi and with our Parliament.
We need to be bolder, however, if we do not want our compromises to slip away, especially as regards control of the economy, foreign policy and the necessary new defence policy, so as to minimise the risk of paralysis due to the need for unanimity.
Over these six months we expect a radical change that can remove the reasons for all the criticism, scepticism and concern that have surrounded these first few days of the period with you at the helm.
The spirit of Rome of the 1957 Treaty was based on a daring vision of the future, and it constructed fifty years of democracy, prosperity and peace.
I think there is a rhetoric surrounding the six-month presidency of a nation, which cannot hide the political reality: the reality is that every presidency is the presidency of a government, not of a country; therefore, if people are against the Bush Administration it does not mean they are anti-American, and if people in Italy and Europe are against their government, it does not mean they are against Italy.
You are starting with a handicap: in Italy the country's consensus is split, a major part of European public opinion is contrary (and I believe the causes lie precisely in your politics), the bases for the economic crisis in the country have been distorted, as it has been under severe strain with the conflict of interests and the conflict between the established powers.
You, Mr President-in-Office, have put forward a proposal for a transatlantic, neo-liberal, post-democratic Europe.
We think this proposal goes against the vocation and historic mission of Europe today, of a Europe that needs another perspective.
That is why our hope is - and please do not take this as a sign of hostility - that mass movement action in Europe will grow in both numbers of participants and importance during the Italian Presidency.
How, for example, would you deal with the pressure which the United States is currently putting on Serbia not to sign the Treaty on the International Criminal Court, while at the same time Europe wants to offer the Balkan countries the prospect of accession to the EU?
Peace in the regions in Europe is also important.
Mr Berlusconi, I believe the most important task during the Italian Presidency will be that relating to the new constitutional treaty, which, let us recall, is not just concerned with ideas or concepts but addresses a territory and the people who live in that territory.
As for the problem of majority voting or unanimity in decision-making, we have to reconcile two needs: the need for efficiency and the need to respect the sovereignty and interests of the states that make up the Union.
Lastly, I should like to mention something which I do not think it will be possible to achieve but which I must highlight: the need for a reduction in the Commission's monopoly on legislative initiatives to the benefit of this House.
Parliament does not have the right to initiate legislation - the only case in the world, I believe.
Mr President, certain people should remember that we are debating today the programme of the Italian Presidency with which - and I am keen to point this out - I am essentially in agreement.
I hope that throughout these six months, at all times in fact, we will be able to distinguish between domestic ideological differences and the institutional responsibilities such as those which the great country of Italy is now taking on.
The main task of the Italian Government is to successfully organise the Intergovernmental Conference (IGC) and to employ all its capacity for dialogue in order to bring the positions of the Member States together.
Time periods here, Mr President, are very important so that the countries which decide to hold a referendum on the ratification of the Constitution of Rome, allowing it to coincide with the European elections on 13 June 2004 - and I wish that were all of them - are able to do so.
We would also like during this six-month period for strong impetus to be given to the negotiations for the accession of Romania and Bulgaria and we call on the Presidency to do everything possible so that these negotiations may end within the time period of the current European legislature.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, never before has a presidency attracted as much criticism and scepticism as this Italian Presidency.
In the interests of Europe, we wish the Italian Government a successful presidency; there is too much at stake to do anything else.
The problem lies, Mr Berlusconi, in the fact that we have heard so many contradictions from Italy in recent months.
As regards the important issue of economic and financial policy, the statements made by the Italian Presidency so far have once again been contradictory.
I have in mind in particular the proposals the Commission adopted when Karel Van Miert was in the chair.
If you can achieve that, Mr President-in-Office, if you can bring forward a coherent and precise proposal, you will also have the support of the Social Democrats.
and I hope that you will do your utmost during your presidency to make it crystal clear that you are not speaking as an Italian Prime Minister with a political axe to grind, but as the President of the Council of the European Union.
I feel embarrassed at all the criticism, censure, sarcasm and derision levelled at my country for what has, I regret to say, quite rightly been called the Italian anomaly, or the serious conflict of interests that involves our Prime Minister.
I also feel humiliated, because I recognise indeed that, whenever our Prime Minister expresses an idea, illustrates a proposal or presents a measure on the economy, finance, information or especially justice, we never know whether in doing so he is thinking of our interests or his own and those of his friends.
I am worried because I do not want the conflict of interests virus that is humiliating Italian democracy to spread to a European level, because this is the real cancer for democracy, Mr Berlusconi, not the work of the judges, as you foolishly stated the other day.
I am, however, also proud - yes, proud - because, thank God, Italy's institutions are not just made up of the Prime Minister and the friends he has brought in with him, especially in the Italian Parliament.
That is why I am sure that Italy's leadership of the European Union will, as a whole, with the involvement and collaboration of all the institutions, including the oppositions, rise to the occasion despite the Italian anomaly, which I am glad to say is transient.
Mr President, Italy, which so long ago was among the founders of the European Community, today has the great task of taking Europe fully into its historic continental enlargement and the launching of its first Constitution.
This is our hope and also our commitment but, frankly, it is bad for Italy and for Europe that the person who is to represent us during the coming six months is Silvio Berlusconi.
An immense weight hangs over him and his actions because of the ongoing conflict between his own personal interests and those of the people of Italy and Europe as a whole.
He is the richest man in Italy: his immense economic power and his private affairs, which are present in every field of activity, conflict with the laws, the standards and the very principles of the State; they conflict with justice, and that is the truth.
It is very sad for Italy and for Europe to have to read fierce criticism of him in the most respected newspapers in every country.
For this very reason, we shall oppose him and his politics.
You subordinate the constitution of the European Union to relations with the United States.
You are unaware of the chaotic and tragic situation in Iraq, caused by governments friendly to you.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, having welcomed, as is only right, your taking over the reins of the European Union, I must immediately express profound disagreement with the main emphasis you intend to give to your Presidency: that of positioning the European Union in the wake of the United States of America.
The peoples of Europe do not want this and demonstrated as much during the war in Iraq.
Mr President, given that this treaty is to be signed in Rome at the beginning of May 2004, I hope you will be very keen to propose to your colleagues in the Intergovernmental Conference that the peoples of Europe, as sole wielders of sovereignty and, therefore, as those who alone are in a position to relinquish such sovereignty, should vote on this Constitution in a referendum.
In the same spirit, I do not want this meeting to be the opportunity for our old Europe, to which we are ultimately rather attached, to sacrifice its cultures, its ways of life and its Community on the altar of unrestrained free trade.
Already, our agriculture has been more or less remodelled in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation.
Mr President, Prime Minister, first of all, I should like to apologise today for the many insults which the Belgian ministers and party chairmen have levelled at the Italian Government and its Prime Minister.
The Italians should know that a large majority of Flemish people feel nothing but embarrassment about these gentlemen, who wanted to act as universal moral knights, while they would be better off putting their own house in order.
My party, the Vlaams Blok, hopes nevertheless that under the Italian Presidency, work will be done on a stringent immigration policy, a bold policy against ever-increasing illegal immigration and all the problems of crime and social corruption that it brings with it.
If the Italian Presidency manages to draw up concrete European policy in all these areas, you will be able to count on our support.
We need real action on the Lisbon strategy rather than empty rhetoric.
Turning then to the IGC and the prospective new constitutional treaty, I urge you and your fellow Heads of State to return to the objectives that were set out in Laeken.
Our political élites have always assumed that the only way that Europe can succeed is by regular, institutional change.
But our enlarged Europe of 25 states should be a place where proper respect for the diversity of nation states is upheld and defended.
Imposing a straitjacket of uniformity can only damage the true interests of unity in the EU.
I also applaud the statement that you made in your priority objectives, in which you say your desire to complete the work of the IGC is dictated by respect for the values of democracy and transparency.
The accession countries will be affected by the outcome of the IGC in the same way as the current 15 EU states.
Surely it should mean that the accession countries have a full and equal right to vote in the Council on the outcome of the IGC?
I also welcome your clear commitment to revive and reinvigorate the transatlantic relationship.
In a newspaper yesterday, you said that the West must be united.
We must ensure that the European Union in the defence field does not pursue objectives that lead to antagonism with the institutions of the NATO Alliance.
He is also a member of the Italian Government, and the least utterance from this man is far worse than anything that inspired this House to censure Austria and oppose the Freedom Party's inclusion in the Austrian Government.
The comments made by Mr Bossi, your Minister for Immigration Policy, which you mentioned in your speech, are totally incompatible with the EU's Charter of Fundamental Rights.
If you were to implement that reform in your own country, the European arrest warrant could then come into force much more quickly.
Rebuilding a real partnership with the United States must start with a direct relationship with the European Union, with Europe gradually taking on responsibility and leadership in NATO, with a moderate, rather than antagonistic or subservient view of the relations.
Mr President-in-Office, if there is one thing that worries me about the situation in Europe - and we have had a few examples this morning - it is a type of politics that all too often appears to be self-referential.
I am therefore sure - and the facts will confirm this - that your commitment to respond to the expectations of your European citizens every single day will mark out your Presidency.
The rule in our speeches is to try to make a contribution to the reports.
In this context, I think the Italian Presidency should remind the European Union of a number of specific responsibilities, which are: to strengthen economic and social cohesion; to reduce the disparity in the development levels of many regions, which is still present in our Union and will be even more accentuated with enlargement; and to implement ideas of geographical solidarity, and in this respect we are thinking of the remoter regions.
This is based especially on three principles: that without resources the cohesion policy will be difficult to implement; that the sectoral policies that the Union is developing - just think of the effects of the reform of the agricultural policy - should contribute to a great ideal of European cohesion; and that the new idea of European cohesion should also include the flexibility criterion.
Well, I believe a reference to the founding values of Europe, an explicit reference to Christian values, would be a contribution to our history.
Mr President, I have been a Member of this House for 14 years.
In that time, every six months, I get mounds of documents from the incoming presidency telling me about its priorities - but not this time.
I wonder whether this is the worst-prepared presidency of my time in Parliament.
I am also concerned by contradictory statements within the government about migration.
Quite frankly, we cannot run the important issue of asylum and immigration on knee-jerk rhetoric that only upsets and fuels the anxieties of our population.
We have to show political leadership and a balanced approach, both in looking at the integration of migrants - something that the European Parliament will look at for the first time during this presidency - as well as the management of migration based on our economic needs and the needs of migrants themselves.
I hope the presidency will show exactly that political leadership on this issue.
One of your own ministers, mentioned earlier in this House, demands that the police use live ammunition upon refugees seeking freedom in your country.
Your own role as Italian media proprietor has led to the government directing the content of both the private press and of public television.
The gloomy question we now have to ask ourselves is whether Italy is a country that fulfils the political Copenhagen criteria.
I nonetheless wish you good luck over the next six months.
We know that you will be able to combine political will and the spirit of conciliation in order to take European integration one stage further.
Issues such as environmental protection that are the subjects of conflict between the two sides of the Atlantic, should be approached on a more pragmatic basis.
We share the opinion of the Italian Presidency on the need for a short IGC, examining, if possible as it stands, the draft constitution of the European Convention and, above all, not re-opening the Pandora's box of national requests.
May we succeed in seizing this unique opportunity, and let us get ready for the new constitutional Treaty of Rome.
We are therefore in favour of the European Union taking initiatives in the area of growth.
We can only encourage the new Presidency, in the run-up to the Euro-Mediterranean Conference in Naples on 2 and 3 December 2003, to develop its relations, particularly in the field of trade, agriculture, infrastructures and migration, in order to ensure that the Barcelona process does not run out of steam.
Finally, we would keenly encourage any European or national policy designed to promote linguistic diversity.
A Europe rich in 20 languages and as many cultures must not be reduced to a Europe of just one language.
That requires effort on the part of everyone, however, and we await practical initiatives in this area from the new Presidency.
That is the ambition of Parliament and of my political group, in the service of a European democracy that operates at all levels, be it at European level or in each of our Member States, a democracy that respects this Charter of Fundamental Rights that we have just incorporated into the draft Constitution.
I am delighted, because I think Jacques Delors was right.
Mr President-in-Office, among the points on the agenda for the Italian Presidency, this Parliament has naturally paid particular attention to the Intergovernmental Conference, which should approve the Convention's draft.
The Italian Presidency has the opportunity to incorporate the trans-European networks - which the Commission's priority projects have marked out as an objective for strengthening European territorial cohesion - into a broader programme.
This Presidency should, finally, put into practice the initiative outlined at Thessaloniki for an immigration policy that finds a steady balance between legality and reception; that is, one that upholds the values we read of in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
Lastly, to reinvigorate Europe's Mediterranean policy, we must be aware that no initiative involving the southern Mediterranean countries can be successful unless it is based on a strong peace policy that guarantees the security of Israel but also a homeland for the Palestinians.
Mr President, the Italian Presidency is proposing economic policy initiatives that are interesting and disconcerting at one and the same time.
In fact, the Italian Government seems to be practising a gelato caldo, or 'hot ice', strategy.
The fortunate increase in life expectancy, together with shorter working lives, have led to a decrease in the number of people actively employed, as compared with the number of retired people.
That obviously presents a problem of funding for the public systems operating on a distribution basis.
The Presidency must clarify its real intentions in this matter as quickly as possible.
The proposals by the minister, Mr Tremonti, in favour of trans-European transport systems comply with a political priority defended by my group for years.
As the concept is not very clear and as the funding is by no means assured, it is difficult, however, to see what might be the impact upon the European economic situation of bringing about future trans-European networks.
As President Ciampi said - and I shall conclude at this point - there will be no stability without growth and no growth without stability.
I support what has already been voiced by a number of other speakers, namely the wish to allow a new constitutional treaty to see the light of day during this Presidency.
This fundamental text must, however, be a point of departure for a new Europe and not an end in itself.
I also think that the next elections will be an opportunity for our fellow citizens to affirm their desire to go further in common European policies, whether it is a question of coordinating economic, budgetary, fiscal and social policies, of creating a Europe of defence and research or of defining a common foreign policy that can finally count for something in the world.
The Italian Presidency will also have a great responsibility for making advances in the fields of education and culture.
You will have to give further impetus to a Europe of knowledge, and I want us to be able to adopt the Erasmus Mundus programme as quickly as possible so that it might be put into effect no later than 2004.
Finally, I would take the liberty of drawing your attention to the meeting of UNESCO's General Assembly in October 2003, which should tackle the draft international convention on cultural diversity.
In conclusion, I want to express the wish that this Italian Presidency might be informed by the spirit of the signatories of the Treaty of Rome.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, our timetable means that it falls to you to hold the Presidency during a six-month period which is key to the implementation of the European arrest warrant, a request of this Parliament, a request of my country, Spain.
The European Union must contribute its own approach to the fight against terrorism, particularly since we have seen recently that the military approach has its limitations.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is nothing easier than to criticise the immigration policy of the current government.
Do not bring the Italian debate on immigration here.
We need to establish an admission policy, a policy on border control, on integration - a word which has disappeared from your programme - and dialogue with third countries, not on illegal immigration, but on immigration, on all aspects of immigration.
Mr President-in-Office, you spoke of a great Europe and, indeed, with the arrival of the new countries, we are experiencing a moment of Europe's reconciliation with its own history and its own civilisation.
If, today, there is a ghost haunting Europe, it is the risk of losing its competitive ability on a world scale.
I therefore applaud your mention of the Lisbon strategy and also the reference in your programme to competitiveness in the service of shared prosperity.
It is also necessary to bring the subject of a sustainable pensions system to European Union level.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, the Italian Presidency's programme is not really available.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the House for allowing the President-in-Office to present his important message uninterrupted.
I agree, and I welcome strengthening the links with Ukraine and Moldova in particular.
Nevertheless, the absence in Chisinau of a European Commission delegation and the fact that Italy, unlike Britain, France and Germany, does not have an embassy in Moldova - in spite of links with the Romanian-speaking peoples - is regrettable.
Lastly, I welcome Italy's efforts to robustly secure Europe's southern frontiers against illegal immigration.
However, how can this be reconciled with the Commission's communication on a wider Europe, which seems to controversially promise eventual freedom of movement to people from the Euro-Med partnership countries?
Mr President-in-Office, I, like everybody else in this House, would like to wish the Italian Presidency success over the next six months.
However, in terms of what we must do now, the most important issue that you must address is the Intergovernmental Conference.
The Convention on the Future of Europe has met in public, has debated in public, all the issues have been thrashed out in public.
It is therefore an extremely important responsibility of your presidency to ensure that the documentation of the Intergovernmental Conference is made available in public, as well as all responses to that documentation.
The public needs to know, the national parliaments need to know and the European Parliament needs to know the debate that is going on in the Intergovernmental Conference.
We cannot ensure the support of the electorate of Europe for the outcome of the Intergovernmental Conference unless people are fully engaged in the debate that takes place there.
In foreign policy there are four objectives: the Middle East peace process; restoring the transatlantic relationship, which has been damaged by the Iraqi crisis; launching new operations in the Balkans run by European forces under the European flag; and lastly the dialogue with the southern Mediterranean countries, which is one of the strong points in the line of action of the European Commission, under the excellent leadership of Romano Prodi.
Since your first appearance in this House, you needed to clarify not only the priorities of the Italian Presidency but also the methods it intended to use, and you have done so clearly, coherently and with a sense of true democracy, especially when you announced greater involvement for the European Parliament.
It is therefore important to acquire detailed knowledge of the new Presidency's concrete proposals, from the launch of a broad-based programme of investment in infrastructure, backed by the European Investment Bank (EIB), to a reopening of the debate on the flexibility of the Stability and Growth Pact, which forces European economies into a strait-jacket of budgetary constraints, even when, as now, their growth rates are negative or very close to zero.
As Parliament's rapporteur, I wish to offer the presidency an early conciliation procedure in the context of the second reading in Parliament, so that we can complete the second rail package by the end of the Italian Presidency.
Mr President-in-Office, I would like to take the liberty of calling on you, as a former member of our group and as a friend of our group, to help us in expediting these two important transport projects, that is opening up rail networks and opening up port services to increased competition and greater efficiency, by working quickly and effectively with us.
Mr President-in-Office, as I have the fortune to take the floor at the end of this debate, I should first of all like to express my satisfaction as an Italian at the recognition, shown by so many, of the historic role played by Italy in the process of European integration: a role, I may add, that has always given particular value to those original supranational institutions, the European Commission and the European Parliament.
I am sure, Mr Berlusconi, that you, as an Italian, will share this satisfaction and understand that any reservations, concerns and demands directed at you reflect everyone's expectations for the Presidency of a great founding and federating country of the European Community.
The Convention on the future of Europe has been an innovation of extraordinary importance.
The draft Constitution it has adopted will certainly be referred, under the Treaty, for final decisions by the Heads of State and Government, but it would be foolish to call into question the most significant innovations in it after sixteen months of hard work put in by the representatives from the governments, the national parliaments and the European Parliament.
You, Mr Berlusconi, have talked about differences of opinion and hence the need for negotiation, but significant efforts at negotiation have already been made in the Convention, and in its Praesidium in particular.
Negotiation by the Italian Presidency in the preparation and running of the Intergovernmental Conference must aim at further advancement of the draft Constitution, clearly addressing those essential options that have remained unresolved, which the President of the Commission pointed out today and also yesterday morning in this House.
We are shortly going to vote here on a resolution tabled by members of the PPE-DE, PSE and ELDR Groups, calling for a courageous formulation of Parts III and IV of the Constitution and, in particular, further extension of qualified majority voting.
I too naturally welcome the way you have taken a position and I hope it will be extended to the other aspects suggested by Mr Barón Crespo.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I sincerely welcome the Italian Presidency's programme and believe that, with the necessary caution, with the humility that marks the Italian people and with the almost unique ability to place our inspiration and intelligence at the service of the many, we shall be able to make port in the new Europe.
The true aim of politics must be the noble government of people's needs, in a society that is constantly changing at an ever-increasing rate.
The Euro-Atlantic partnership with all the Americas is not just an economic and political need or choice; it is a cultural fact that arises from our common roots and shared values.
Therefore, in the discussion on the Union's financial perspective, we should boldly and decisively set ourselves the target of increasing our contribution to 2% of GDP, because opening up our markets and reforming our institutions is not enough for the international agencies.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, many Members have highlighted the extraordinary nature of the events and turning-points of European politics that will occur during your Presidency, from the Constitutional Treaty to the Middle East roadmap, the preparations for enlargement and the relaunch of the Lisbon strategy.
I certainly mean to recognise the historic importance of these events, but I should like to call your attention, Mr President-in-Office, to the very ordinary nature of the work done by the European institutions.
This sector is in a happy situation, with the arrival of the Van Miert proposal, which has finally given us a new programme of new projects that are equal to the challenges facing us as a continent; your government's proposal of an ingenious way to finance these projects; and the Commission's proposal to increase European funding to 20%.
The Council has been a little remiss in the matter of liberalising port services, in the matter of the railway package and as regards the thorny, age-old problem of the Alpine passes.
Tomorrow, Parliament will be voting for the umpteenth time on a call to shelve the ecopoints idea, and I hope this time the Council will agree to follow our lead.
Just an example, then, Mr President-in-Office, to remind you of the commitment which, I am sure, your presidency will be ready to demonstrate in these areas, particularly because every time we manage to make some progress with these files we shall be showing our fellow European citizens tangible proof that Europe offers greater opportunities, well-being and prosperity for all.
Mr President-in-Office, the vulgar and tendentious attacks by certain elements of the foreign press - and some Italian elements too, I have to admit - which have been echoed in this House in some Members' speeches and then in that pathetic demonstration, have given the start of this Italian Presidency an unnecessarily polemic tone.
Paradoxically, I believe all of this is a good sign, Mr Berlusconi: remember that malice of this kind was loudly voiced in 2001 and only contributed to your resounding victory in those elections.
As a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, I am sure that in this area, the area that concerns me, some problems can be resolved, such as mending the damaged relations with the United States.
Competitiveness, social cohesion, solidarity across generations, the valuing of human resources, solidarity towards the countries in the many southern parts of the world are not just many objectives within our reach, but they are also the founding values of the best episodes in our peoples' histories.
Today, we are faced with a great opportunity: to combine the constitutional process with the will and the need for reform - reform as the steady, day-to-day implementation of that work in progress that is, and will be, our formal Constitution.
The action plan you have proposed, Mr President-in-Office, for developing the great trans-European infrastructure networks through public and private investment, is a step in this direction.
As is well known, investment in infrastructure produces higher returns through Keynes's multiplier, greater competitiveness, and more economic and social cohesion in the north, south, east and west.
The same may be said for the objective of making our welfare systems sustainable through reform, not by taking away but by giving more with fairness (not least to our children), guarantees and security.
Mr President-in-Office, you won the Italian elections with a modernising programme, just as the programme you have presented today is modernising.
I no longer know whether the President-in-Office will preside over the IGC in Rome in the fullness of his prerogatives or whether, as Enrique Barón Crespo claims, he will be an occasional guest of the mayor of that city.
Indeed, this reference is not a contribution to the clerical concerns of certain social groups but the historical memory of the truest meaning behind our institutions.
Our democratic institutions are in fact the result of a freedom pact with the citizens, who transfer some of their own sovereignty to them in exchange for guarantees and services.
From this viewpoint, the states and especially the supranational institutions, are guarantors of the attempts that we citizens make to respond to our needs - they are guarantors, not masters - and they are such because they are well aware that they cannot be the final answer to people's heartfelt desires.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Poettering for his words of support, encouragement and best wishes, and all the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats who, in their speeches, have made demands of us on one point or another but who have shown us a token of the support that they will give us in these busy months to come.
I should like to tell him that I am still convinced that the great Europe of the future, if it genuinely wants to be a leader in world politics able to sit at a table on equal terms with the United States, will have to be a great Europe that can also include Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, Israel, the Russian Federation and its military strength.
What has happened in the world since 11 September?
Italy's proposal is that Europe, through one of its institutions, the EIB, should raise those private capital funds that are on the market and can be had at low interest rates, in order to try to boost demand through transnational infrastructure works, through the need to invest in new military technology, and through investment in research and education.
In fact, it inherited a country in which none of the previous governments, which were only able to work for less than five years on average, was, of course, able to do this.
I remind you that my government has drafted a record three hundred and fifty bills and decree-laws, two hundred of which have already been passed by our majority in parliament.
Therefore, while I do not admit you are right, I can say that those three bills were a response - using a democratic method, a parliamentary vote - to a person who takes advantage of their position as an officer of justice to use the courts to attack their political enemies; although I believe that this has happened, it has only happened in three cases out of 350: 1%, Mr Barón Crespo.
I confirm, however - God forgive you if you did not know - that we shall be keeping Members of Parliament and Parliament itself informed on the progress of our negotiation operation, which it will not be at all easy to complete in the short time available.
We shall be using the time between now and about 15 October to contact the Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers of all the other 24 European Union Member States so that, at the opening of the Conference, we can already present some possible solutions on which everyone can agree.
I invite them to come and enjoy something that the Berlusconi government has clearly not succeeded in eliminating, which is Italy's sunshine, its beauty, its 100 000 monuments and churches, our 3 500 museums, our 2 500 archaeological sites, the 40 000 historical houses in Italy, which we have not managed to destroy over the last two years.
I have recalled several times that I see Europe as a joint protagonist in maintaining security and peace, for the development of well-being throughout the world, but to do this Europe must not be just an economic giant but an economic giant that can also find a way to express itself with a single voice on foreign policy, and one that can also invest more in its military forces.
With regard to the United States, I think we should be friends of the United States, but I do not believe there has been anything in the Italian Government's conduct that could be seen as subservience.
I repeatedly tried to dissuade the person who has been mentioned here as being my friend, President George Bush, from launching a military initiative in Iraq.
On immigration, I should like to remind you that, if there is one country that is rooted in Christianity, a generous country, open to those who have the least and to those who suffer, I am proud to say that this country is mine, Italy.
We want to fight this new form of slavery which is emerging through numerous international organisations: no more than that, and there is nothing in that which might cast doubt on Italy's generosity.
It has been practically my only hobby since football left me behind.
Finally, I should like to say to my adversaries, with a smile, that they should not make a tragedy out of our Presidency.
Well, I believe that there are only successes in my record and only good intentions behind my actions.
Therefore, we shall also make these six months bear fruit and try to reach a conclusion that enables Europe to be a positive factor for world peace, security and prosperity.
This is our hope; this is our undertaking; this is our goal.
It is very clear that a Member is entitled to make a contribution in a debate and to have it responded to with some serenity.
During his statement, if the translation was correct, Mr Berlusconi said that a director is currently shooting a film in Italy about the concentration camps, and was inviting me to take the role of the Kapo ? ?
I should now like to invite the President of the European Commission to close this debate in some serenity and then to proceed to the vote. (Sustained applause) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Members of Parliament, this morning's debate has most of all highlighted the extent of the tasks and difficulties of the six months that lie ahead: six months of crucial importance for the great initiatives that must be completed and the new paths that are to be opened up.
The objective that stands out above all others is the Intergovernmental Conference, which is to give us a Constitution that should not only contain an architecture for our institutions but also constitute a set of visions, values and models of society.
We expect a lot from the Italian Presidency, because this is our great challenge and because this Constitution will dictate the rules of this Europe of ours for a long time to come.
At these moments the Commission will carry out its mandate - a mandate that is not only executive but also one of instigation and proposal - I repeat, leading on in terms of the policies and collaboration that we have built up over these years together with the European Parliament and the various Presidencies.
We shall do so in the field of institutional reform, as we have said, in the drive for economic revitalisation, for the normalisation of friendly relations with the United States in a position of dignity and equality; we shall do so by furthering and speeding up the difficult, complicated process of the accession of the Balkan countries into Europe and with the gradual achievement of the project of the ring of friendly countries, thus putting our vision into practice.
I should like to dwell just a little more on some of the points I have listed because I consider them key points for our future work.
The Lisbon process, which has emerged today as a strong point, is our point of reference, because Europe must overcome the worldwide challenge, but it must overcome it through balanced and socially sustainable development.
The increasing differences between the citizens of the various European countries in almost all our nations over the last decade concerns me at least as much as the lack of growth.
We are working on this side by side with the European Investment Bank, and we shall be making the same effort in the field of research, without which Europe will be a lost continent.
With regard to international relations, lastly, the Commission maintains its commitment to peace and a multilateral approach to resolving conflicts.
Moreover, the Union's humanitarian commitment will continue to provide the long-term aid that is by far the greatest priority to every country in the world.
WRITTEN STATEMENT (RULE 120) The Italian Presidency has cited immigration policy and the fight against illegal immigration as being among its priorities, and we assure it of our support.
Although it devoted a large proportion of its conclusions to immigration policy - seven and a half pages, compared with the one and a half that came out of the Convention - the Council was particularly obscure, even impossible to understand, defining, in particular, its objective in terms of a 'two-way process', aimed at simultaneously fighting illegal immigration and exploring 'legal migration channels'.
We are relying upon the Italian Presidency to make progress on this issue.
Mr President, if I have observed correctly, you have not yet taken a vote on Amendment No 75 tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats.
This would correspond to what we decided under Amendment No 32, whereby we can still use all the labels, and it applies to both Amendment No 88 and Amendment No 89.
In other words, I am tabling an oral amendment designed to remove the word 'European'.
Parliament has done some good work to increase the number of acts that support sustainable development in legislation regulating production.
In that case it should not just protect the public's financial interests but one also has to think, for example, about protecting the health of the general public.
On the other, they are intended to bring to an end the production and provision of services by companies that are owned by the government itself, and so to enable private companies to access new markets.
While it is true that these directives are very important for the equilibrium of the internal market and crossborder awards, the greatest benefit of these directives does not reside in this fact, but in the opportunity they provide for promoting sustainable development.
The same applies to concerns regarding discrimination.
For deliveries and services in these areas, private companies preferred to depend on a reliable government monopoly than on the uncertainty and lack of continuity that characterises the free market.
The compromise on GMOs in favour of which the European Parliament has just voted means simply that it was impossible to take the negotiations any further.
The moratorium on GMOs will therefore be lifted, as desired by the Member States.
Nonetheless, there are significant benefits to this compromise, because there has also been a vote in favour of greater traceability, which will enable consumers to be more vigilant, will make for tough regulations when it comes to detecting GMOs and will make precise labelling possible, as well as the ability to distinguish clearly between GMO and non-GMO production.
Transparency has won the day, even if the precautionary principle looks a little the worse for wear.
It is not a victory, but the amendments voted in favour of are important markers that will need to be further augmented in the future.
The compromise reached, though far from perfect, does ensure that all food and feed containing, consisting of or produced from GMOs will in future be regulated by a more coherent and uniform authorisation process, with authorisations lasting no longer than 10 years.
On the other hand, though, I would not want my position to be understood as standing in the way of scientific progress, which is always desirable and should not suffer from excessive legislative obstacles.
The Cartagena Protocol on biodiversity recognises this right.
Let us make full use of it in order to retain, in Europe, our expertise in the area of GMO culture.
In exchange for these compromises, Parliament is abandoning its requirements concerning stricter threshold values for GMO contamination (0.5%), values which, in fact, would not be supported by everyone in either Parliament, or the Council.
Consequently, it seems more important to us to have certainty about an agreement on co-existence, because without such measures, not a single Member State would be able to enforce the threshold values.
With this legislation, even with the compromise, Europe is the first to introduce stricter legislation concerning the permission, traceability and labelling of GMOs.
With our vote today, we are trying to give people the right to make a genuine choice about GM products.
Organic regulations allow for the presence of up to 5% non-organic ingredients.
Contrary to my political group's decision and to that of the majority of the European Parliament, I have voted against compromise Amendments Nos 44 and 45, concluded with the Council.
It turns out that the only purpose of this legislation is to enable the European moratorium on GMOs to be lifted as quickly as possible.
Since, however, wine is treated as a food, bottles of wine too would need to be labelled in the name of the right to information concerning the risks of intolerance, particularly to the eggs and fish cited in Annex 3b, which lists the 20 ingredients that present risks.
In fact, one vet-inspector, Karel Van Noppen, was killed on 20 February 1995.
These EU packaging rules require a step change in recycling activity from British business, consumers and local councils.
Introduction of the necessary changes in an efficient and cost-effective way needs a little more time.
The Member States have also achieved different results in meeting the targets laid down in the 1994 directive.
That is why the Council has to date only managed to reach a common position which the rapporteur considers very inadequate.
We cannot deny reality, even if it does not correspond to our ideals.
In the real world in which we live, however, every decision has consequences and involves costs that have to be met by taxpayers and consumers, by us all.
It would have been counterproductive to have voted today for measures that have never been costed, and which impose unrealistic obligations on all our Member States. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137 (1) of the Rules of Procedure) The first essential requirement for a waste recovery and recycling policy is prevention.
For this reason, I support the targets set in the common position and dispute those suggested by the rapporteur.
It is an established fact that protecting the environment is our only long-term guarantee of protecting our citizens and consumers.
We hope that this instrument will result in all Member States actually presenting their national allocation plans in spring next year, making this a genuine economic instrument that I hope will help climate protection.
Nevertheless we also need new arrangements in future, and we need an action plan for CO2 emissions from road and air transport, which are increasing dramatically.
Recent United Nations figures, moreover, suggest a tendency towards a rise in emissions from industrialised countries.
I am not particularly in favour of this world system of selling 'pollution rights'.
Specific experiments that I have been able to conduct with manufacturers in my sector in fact show that these economic agents can make consistent efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions.
This text makes no reference to the technical links that exist between the activities of different operators.
In the particular case of the iron and steel industry, inclusion of such a reference could have prevented the rights corresponding to blast furnace gases that are sent to electricity companies to be converted into energy that is used by iron and steel plants from being granted to the electricity companies under the national allocation plans when, without them, those companies could replace those energy sources with others such as natural gas.
It must do so to protect the health of its citizens, to meet the Kyoto targets, to set an example to the world and to avoid looming catastrophe: the latest report from the International Energy Agency's climatologists predicts that energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions will double by 2030.
Undertakings that exceed their quotas will be fined: EUR 40 per tonne excess, then EUR 100 per tonne after 2008.
This system of trading quotas is therefore a real breath of fresh air that will enable these emissions to be cut by more than 20% from 2010, not to mention EUR 2 000 million in energy savings.
If I may, Mr President, I would like to introduce my statement on Chechnya by expressing my full personal commitment and my determination to continue as of now attending the House and playing a full part in the work of the European Parliament, my intention to pay heed to the considerations expressed in this and other debates and to keep Parliament fully informed, insofar as it is in my power, regarding the Council's dossiers and activities.
Turning to the subject of Chechnya, as you all know, the situation in the Republic of Chechnya, one of the components of the Russian Federation, has been the object of the European Union's attention for some time now as a result of the serious acts of military violence and terrorism that characterise it and of the likely consequences for Europe.
The 1997 Peace Treaty laid the groundwork for a broad-based de facto autonomy under the Presidency of Chechen leader, Aslan Maskhadov, while guerrilla groups continued to be active throughout the country.
In 1999, Moscow intervened in Ingushetia and North Ossetia while, in Chechnya, Russian troops occupied the capital city of Grozny.
After 11 September 2001, Russia stepped up its anti-terrorism efforts, even though the connection between Chechnya and Islamic fundamentalism - which does exist - appeared to be quite indirect.
Although, in September 2001, a channel of dialogue opened up between the Russian authorities and one of the main exponents of the Chechen resistance, it remained uncertain and unclear whether a political solution to the conflict could be found.
It was against this backdrop that the serious terrorist incident at the Na Dubrovke theatre occurred, followed by the numerous, and equally violent, attacks of recent months.
The situation on the ground is extremely difficult: the local economy is falling apart, there is contention within the pro-Russian administration, there are terrorist threats from the separatists and brutality, and violent military action from Russian militias.
While, in the past, Chechnya had a flourishing economy, due, of course, first and foremost, to oil production and to a highly developed metal and mechanics sector, it is now considerably reduced; unemployment is at 42%, there are 64 000 Chechen refugees in the nearby Republic of Ingushetia, 8 000 displaced persons in reception camps and 290 000 homeless.
Ladies and gentlemen, the major institutional reform initiative launched by President Putin with the adoption of a new Constitution, to be approved by local referendum, has been grafted onto these bases.
The political plan consists of the concession of broad-based autonomy and greater powers to local organisations in the context of the Russian Federation, whose territorial integrity is thus safeguarded.
The results of the referendum of 23 March - which saw an 89% participation rate - were, as we know, highly favourable to the draft Constitution.
In accordance with the recently adopted Constitution, it is possible to foresee Chechen presidential elections by the end of October, while parliamentary elections will take place no earlier than three months after the election of the future President.
Nevertheless, despite this positive outcome, the referendum is only a first step in the political transition underway.
A large number of unresolved issues remain, including the definition of the powers held by the Chechen Republic and the Russian Federation, the provision of compensation to those who have lost property and the adoption of measures for combating crime, including the crimes committed by the Federal Forces.
On 6 June 2003, the State Duma adopted an amnesty law for Chechnya to be applied to both rebels and members of the police force, on condition, of course, that they have not committed violent crimes.
Nevertheless, despite the amnesty, attacks on the ground are continuing, prompting, as a result, harsh responses from the police force.
The international community has been actively following the developments and the initiatives of Moscow.
While, in March, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution that contemplates the possibility of setting up an International Tribunal in order to bring those guilty of serious violations of human rights in Chechnya to justice, more recently, the political and institutional process begun was examined in depth in the course of the talks of the Commissioner for Human Rights in Moscow.
In the context of the OSCE, the Presidency is laying the foundations, in agreement with Russia, for the resumption of the organisation's activities in the Republic, based on specific programmes agreed regarding elections, good governance, the judicial system, the media, the police and humanitarian aid.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Council has noted the European Parliament's views on the situation in the Republic of Chechnya and will endeavour to ensure that the political process recently set in motion leads to the reestablishment of the rule of law and the reconstruction of the region's economic and social fabric.
The Union is united in its overall positive judgment of the start of the institutional process launched by President Putin with regard to Chechnya.
The European Union's continuing attention was made clear through the recent visit in April to Chechnya itself of the Troika of Heads of Mission in Moscow as well as through support for the resumption of the OSCE's activities in the region, which I mentioned earlier.
The EU-Russia Cooperation Council of 15 April last was the Union's first opportunity to send a high-level political message of vigilance, interest and general availability.
The St Petersburg EU-Russia Summit expressed the hope that the political process recently set in motion, along with economic and social reconstruction, will lead to the reestablishment of rule of law, to the promotion of human rights and to genuine reconciliation.
By supporting the process begun by President Putin, this initiative could extend Community intervention from the field of humanitarian aid, on which we have all been focusing up until now, to the different - but equally important, if I may say so - area of institution-building and the promotion of socio-economic development, placing a number of practical initiatives in the framework of the existing cooperation between the European Union and the OSCE.
In conclusion, with regard to the institutional process launched by Moscow, the Italian Presidency will be committed to facilitating a definitive political solution which, if possible, involves all the representatives and segments of the Chechen population not compromised by terrorism.
This means that the defence of human rights is an absolute and that, if the main violation of human rights is terrorism itself, which does not respect the basic right to life, that does not mean that we must not always be aware, in any action or fight against terrorism, that human rights are a fundamental element which must be respected at all times.
Having said all of this, and moving on to the areas which are more directly related to the Commission's activity - which is what I am going to focus on in order not to repeat what has already been said - I would point out that it is necessary to make progress on the possibility of providing humanitarian aid in Chechnya.
Since October 1999 we have provided more than EUR 110 million in aid to the victims of the conflicts in Chechnya.
Furthermore, although the Russian authorities have assured us that they will not repatriate the thousands of displaced persons in neighbouring areas to Chechnya by force, referred to a moment ago by the President-in-Office of the Council, the truth is that ECHO has informed us that it is observing that the possibility of replacing the deteriorating tents and building more solid shelters in neighbouring Ingushetia is being denied.
With a view to the future, the Commission will continue to monitor how the situation develops, including the work under way, with a view to the signature of a treaty intended to clarify the status of Chechnya within the Russian Federation, as well as the preparations for the presidential and parliamentary elections in the Russian republic, scheduled for October and December.
The Commission is now stressing that all these actions, all this progress, should take place with the utmost transparency, entirely in accordance with international rules, and, above all, that they should be carried out in a way that helps to resolve this conflict once and for all.
The fact is, however, that many citizens in Chechnya, on account of the action taken by the Russian troops, tend, in their desperation, to veer to the anti-Russian camp.
This is why I should like to urge both the Commission and the Council to employ all political and diplomatic means available to us in order to curb the violence in Chechnya.
Firstly, I wish to raise the matter of Russia's change of strategy.
This is a positive approach and one that the European Parliament has been calling for for a long time.
Secondly, it is obvious that all parties are tired of war and want peace.
It is to be feared that after the elections the situation may go back to what it was before.
The Russian Government has put together a kind of politico-economic package to normalise the situation.
The European Union is already the biggest external provider of assistance.
The Commission recently also granted EUR 16 million in humanitarian aid, which is only right.
It is also essential that the office of the OSCE in Znamenskoje can be got fully up and running without delay.
I have not named the guilty parties in my speech because now is the time to seek peace.
We thus support the Russian Government's attempts to stabilise conditions in the region on the basis of the recently conducted referendum.
On the other hand, Russia is holding on tightly to its regional unity, which is something the international community has also given its clear support to.
The solution arrived at in Kosovo might perhaps serve as a model in principle.
Russia itself must decide what sort of policy it wants to put into effect in Chechnya.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I regard the referendum on 23 March as a first step in attempting to stabilise the situation in Chechnya.
Against that background, I hope that the elections in December 2003 or March 2004 will lead to political stabilisation in Chechnya.
The European Union should be prepared to provide whatever assistance is needed to hold free and fair elections.
As has already been mentioned, the refugees' plight remains precarious.
I am concerned that since 11 September the Council and the Commission have effectively stopped discussing the actions of the Russian army in Chechnya, which have chiefly resulted in enormous suffering amongst the civilian population.
Commissioner, the fight in Chechnya is not a fight against terrorism only.
The situation is far more complex.
Human rights are being violated, and the Russians have indeed changed strategy and switched from a military strategy to a political strategy, which involves a referendum and elections being held soon.
I think that we will need to do a great deal in order to remedy this situation.
As far as the humanitarian situation is concerned, I can fully support what the Commissioner has said.
Arjan's father is in the public gallery, together with representatives of Médecins sans Frontières.
We have a delegation meeting of the Russian delegation in Moscow next Monday and Tuesday and as the chairman of this delegation, I can assure the relatives that we will bring up their son's case for discussion during our delegation meeting in the Duma next Tuesday.
We need to be quite clear that Yelena Bonner, Andrei Sakharov's widow, is right when she says that what is happening in Chechnya is genocide.
The referendum was an illusion of normality.
We must ensure that Russia is involved in this peace process and that it shoulders its responsibility.
If we continue today to talk about the possibility of Russia acceding to the European Union, without considering this ongoing conflict as an element which is already causing difficulties in our relations with Russia, we will certainly not be facilitating the peace process.
The information we have obtained to the effect that 30 000 Russian soldiers took part in the referendum is mirth-inducing.
At the same time, we in the EU, too, must contribute to the reconstruction.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
This must also be the objective at Cancun in September.
In accordance with the provisions of the common position, a large-scale awareness campaign has already been launched in this regard, particularly in the context of political dialogue with non-Member States.
I should like what he said to be put into practice; in other words, at the first opportunity and taking account of the friendly attitude of the Italian Government towards Israel, which was even expressed in the wish that Israel should one day become a member of the European Union, for this matter to be raised as a matter of urgency, so that a solution is found quickly to the very unfortunate situation they face.
The attacks in Casablanca are a brutal confirmation that terrorism is a growing threat to democracy, peace and international security, from which no country can consider itself free or safe.
The struggle against terrorism calls for maximum determination from the international community and the strongest will to co-operate and initiate concerted action.
The European Union will continue - and I consider this to be an absolute priority for the Italian Presidency - to do its part to prevent and eliminate this threat.
An updated report by the Presidency on activities related to the fight against terrorism was, as you know, submitted to the Council during the June 2003 part-session.
Internally, the Union is using political, economic and legal instruments; at the same time, the Union is taking steps to incorporate the fight against terrorism into all aspects of its foreign policy.
Lastly, at the same time the European Union is continuing to foster dialogue and exchanges between cultures, religions and civilisations.
This is a considerable task, being carried out chiefly within the Barcelona Process framework to create a Euro-Mediterranean Foundation for the dialogue of cultures and civilisations, a measure which can help eliminate the causes of all forms of fundamentalist violence which may lead to terrorism.
Mr President, Minister, on the subject of suicide attacks, I am reminded of a recent book by the French sociologist and thinker Emmanuel Todd which is entitled After the Empire.
In it he discusses how societies, as their education improves, develop towards democracy to become a political system which guarantees freedoms and justice, and, in this process, the West appears to be the great promoter of democracy, progress and development of peoples, while at the same time being leader and arbitrator of conflicts.
Having said that, it is clear that the structural causes of terrorism must be tackled, and those causes may also be found in despair, poverty and in the difficulties of dialogue between cultures.
This is why the global European strategy must consist, on the one hand, of a no-holds-barred fight against all forms of terrorism and, on the other, of in-depth dialogue between civilisations and cultures.
Believe me, Minister, I also vigorously condemn terrorist activities and the crimes committed, but I would like to point out that the American professor, John Esposito, an expert in Islam who heads the centre for understanding between Muslims and Christians, has stated that Washington has always based its relations with the Gulf countries on oil interests, and not on an understanding of their culture and their people.
Question No 4 by Sarah Ludford (H-0354/03): Subject: EU Member States and the terrorist attack in Morocco which claimed 41 lives What does the Council think about the terrorist attacks in Casablanca which killed 41 people, including a number of Union citizens, and injured many others?
I will certainly provide the Council Secretariat with information in this respect so that it can take it into consideration should this intention exist and should this pilot project be prepared in the future, something which - I repeat - I do not believe to be the case at present.
Question No 5 by Patricia McKenna (H-0361/03): Subject: Illegal occupation of Iraq The United Kingdom, a member of the Council, is illegally occupying Iraq.
The Council was extremely pleased to see an end to military action and the unanimous adoption of Security Council Resolution 1483 on post-war Iraq.
This is proof of a new spirit of cooperation in the international community, on which we must build the future.
The Resolution and the appointment of a Special Representative in Iraq has given the United Nations an important role in the reconstruction process in Iraq, in accordance with the European Union's own recommendations.
The Union is committed to carrying out a major role precisely in the political and economic reconstruction of the country.
Humanitarian assistance is already underway: the Commission and Union Member States have contributed over EUR 700 million in appropriations for humanitarian aid.
In 2003, the Commission and the Secretary General/High Representative, Javier Solana, are remaining in close contact with the United Nations Special Representative in order to explore possible further European Union action precisely for post-war Iraq, so that we can help at this stage, in whatever way and unconditionally, with the Iraqi people's immediate needs.
There are two things I would like to ask the Council.
The country is in crisis: there are a huge number people that are food dependent; law and order has broken down; people in Iraq are saying that now that they come out on the streets people are dead; the whole structure has broken down.
That is the first thing I would like to know from the Council, in relation to the current situation in Iraq, which definitely cannot be left in the hands of the British and the Americans.
Secondly, what is the Council going to do in relation to a number of EU citizens who are imprisoned in Guantanamo Bay, as it is clear that the British are too scared to stand up to the Americans and defend their own citizens?
They are citizens of the EU as well and it is up to the EU to do something about this and also about the illegal occupation of Iraq.
Looking to the future means looking after the people suffering in Iraq and ensuring that conditions are created so that in the future, hopefully the not too distant future, the Iraqi people can again take control of their own destiny and then their own country.
The Council closely follows developments in human rights in the Russian Federation and regularly raises issues related to human rights and the rule of law in meetings with the Russian authorities.
We must remember that there are Member States of the European Union which have not yet ratified the protocol.
This is a problem we should be aware of in the European Union, with its share of world trade, with its economic weight in the world and with the political clout that it undoubtedly has.
In this regard, the Italian Presidency intends to seek solutions on issues which are still unresolved, such as increasing the level of consumer protection through the obligation to respect harmonised technical requirements for all products placed on the market, the position of marks with a higher information content with regard to identification, the responsibility of manufacturers and inspection bodies, and, lastly, the completion of the free movement of products in the internal market for this sector.
However, I am concerned that, from the point of view of my own country, the United Kingdom, the current proposal tabled by the Commission would seriously undermine a proven system of consumer protection that has existed for hundreds of years.
I would put it to the presidency that we already have an International Convention on Hallmarking of precious metals, which the European Union could accede to and which would provide a proven system of consumer protection without the necessity of moving in a direction that, as he knows, many countries oppose.
I can send him a statement from the assay offices in Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which are seriously concerned about this proposal and are alarmed that the Italian Presidency is pushing for a conclusion to this directive before they have a chance to accede to it.
Question No 8 by Lennart Sacrédeus (H-0377/03): Subject: Report on freedom of faith and religion in the world The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, USCIRF, performs an advisory function for the US Government on issues of religious freedom.
In its annual report, USCIRF expresses concern at the fact that the Saudi Arabian regime is investing money abroad in order to disseminate its extreme interpretation of Wahhabi Islam - thereby increasing religious intolerance in other countries.
The European Union Annual Report on Human Rights illustrates, inter alia, our clear position on freedom of religion and action taken on this basis.
Concerns over the freedom of religion are regularly expressed to all the governments in question, both in bilateral and multilateral forums such as the annual meetings of the United Nations Human Rights Commission and the Third Committee of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Nevertheless, in this respect the Presidency would remind you of the principles enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union: Article 1 lays down that human dignity is inviolable and must be respected and protected; Article 3 lays down, moreover, that, in the fields of medicine and biology, the prohibition on, inter alia, eugenic practices must be respected, in particular those aiming at the selection of persons, the prohibition on making the human body and its parts a source of financial gain and the prohibition on the reproductive cloning of human beings.
I can answer that - apart from a deep-rooted value that I personally feel inside - the prohibition on the reproductive cloning of human beings is clearly laid down by Article 3 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
Question No 10 by Linda McAvan (H-0381/03): Subject: Human rights workers in Indonesia The recent abductions and murder of human rights workers in Aceh are a cause of great concern.
According to the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, five of the six international NGOs and four UN agencies operating in Aceh have been advised by the Indonesian Government to cease their activities for their own safety.
Since the breakdown in peace talks and the subsequent declaration of martial law in this province in May 2003, the Indonesian security forces have launched a significant joint operation against the Free Aceh Movement.
The Union would remind you of the recent Resolution on Human Rights Defenders, adopted by consensus at the 59th Commission on Human Rights in Geneva.
This resolution calls on all the States to adopt the necessary measures to protect human rights defenders and in this regard, I can assure you that the European Union will urge the Indonesian Government to allow Hina Hilani, Special Representative of the Secretary General of the United Nations on Human Rights Defenders, to visit that province.
With regard to what I said a few minutes ago - I believe with regard to Question No 5, again on Iraq - Europe has recently begun initiatives in order to participate in the humanitarian aid programme for the country, but we do not have this information, which can, of course, be discovered in other ways, for example by asking the organisations and the States present in Iraq which presumably have this data.
I am sorry, but all I can say is that the Council does not have this information.
Bearing in mind that we are talking about a war which violated international law and did not enjoy the multilateral support of the United Nations, I would ask you - and please reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - do you condemn the violation of the right to life which has been suffered by the victims of this illegal war?
Clearly looking to the future means looking ahead to the conditions which will enable the Iraqi people to again govern their own country following the fall of the dictatorship.
In fact, the Council will be unable to initiate its work on the future of the cohesion policy until the Commission has tabled its proposals.
I also said that, given the importance of the matter, the Italian Presidency will also address this issue and that the competent Italian minister will present the relevant information to Parliament's competent committee.
on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation on the provision of air navigation services in the Single European Sky ('the service provision Regulation') (15853/2/2002 - C5-0137/2003 - 2001/0235(COD)), 2.
on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation on the organisation and use of the airspace in the Single European Sky ('the airspace Regulation') (15852/3/2002 - C5-0139/2003 - 2001/0236(COD)), 3.
A year ago, Parliament commendably took up the Commission's challenge at a difficult time, following 11 September, at a time when discussing safety in our skies required increased sensitivity, reasoning and attention.
Another fundamental point is sanctions: a system of sanctions - which will, of course, be deferred until the various States have fully defined them - which can be used to punish the airlines and other parties concerned in the event that these rules are violated.
The word 'sanction' is always an unpleasant word, a word which should always be spoken with great restraint and great care, but it is a necessary word in this case.
This is a system of rules which does not allow exceptions, apart from in certain very special cases; it is a system of rules based on respect, for otherwise the concept of a single sky would not be fully realised.
The third point is cooperation between civil and military users.
Cooperation between civil and military authorities is the distinguishing point: to this end, a single sky committee is provided for, in which the military are also to participate; there is also a safeguard clause which gives Member States the possibility of deferring certain single sky regulations should special situations or special emergencies arise, and this naturally lies first of all within the role and function of the armed forces and the military.
Well, with regard to all these points, the common position may well have been affected by a climate which, following 11 September, is giving much greater consideration to national sovereignty and national security.
It is, in any case, a position which we consider to be quite conservative.
Cooperation between civil and military users is essentially pushed aside.
The single sky is losing one of its major distinguishing characteristics.
Cooperation between civil and military authorities should be considered not as a restriction on Member States' sovereignty but as a great opportunity, an opportunity which, moreover, is guaranteed by an extended safeguard clause, which we have only prevented being extended to cover simple training too for otherwise the very concept of a single European sky would be undermined.
I hope that, in the coming weeks and months, in a balanced trialogue with the other institutions, Parliament will be able to contribute to the swift definition of a set of regulations which will be a credit to the work of the Commission, the Council and, of course, Parliament, so that we will, at last, be able to provide the European citizens with a single, safe sky.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I speak for the majority of my colleagues when I say that our main reaction to the Council common position on the Single Sky was a sense of disappointment.
In the field of safety, the Council fortunately sensed the feelings of the European Parliament accurately.
It also introduced greater clarity to the original Commission proposal.
In addition to the decisive priority of safety, airspace management is also an economic sector.
Fifthly, I do of course understand the sensitivities of the Member States regarding cooperation between civil and military airspace management.
I also respect the legal constraints that the EC Treaty imposes on us in this area.
However, Commissioner, I do not believe that the Council has achieved the maximum possible in this field.
On top of what is known as the flexible use of airspace, there are certainly other possibilities for improving cooperation between civil and military airspace managers without contravening the EC Treaty or jeopardising Member States' defence competences.
They still differ on one small point, and my group has therefore requested a separate vote for Amendment No 14.
I would therefore like to thank the two rapporteurs and all the Members, who I know have participated very actively throughout the discussions in committee, and to remind them of something that we all know: until 2000 this sector has developed systematically, in the intergovernmental field, by means of Eurocontrol or the International Civil Aviation Authority.
The objective is therefore to make the organisation and the management of the air space coherent with mobility in the skies, to create a single sky before the end of 2004.
And the honourable Members know that this is one of the emblematic initiatives of this Prodi Commission.
I would also like to say that, in the meantime, events have taken place, which certain Members have referred to, such as the crisis in the aviation sector relating to certain factors, 11 September, the war in Iraq, the Uberlingen accident, which have undoubtedly affected our work, but that, in no case have they undermined either the importance of the initiative or the urgency of implementing it.
I would like to point out that, regrettably, it does not appear that your reactions to the Council's common position are going to allow an agreement to be reached at second reading.
The discussions in the Council have demonstrated that balancing the needs of the transport policy and the demands of defence policy require coordination mechanisms which go beyond the possibilities offered in the first pillar.
In order to support the creation of the single sky, despite this obstacle, the States of the Union have committed themselves, in a declaration, to developing military cooperation as a complement to the initiative in the context of the first pillar.
I believe we must take advantage of this opportunity and proceed pragmatically in this field.
Amendment No 29 of the report by Mrs Sanders-ten Holte establishes that transport policy has primacy in the use of the single sky, and this does not sufficiently reflect the legitimate needs and concerns of the Member States from the point of view of defence.
The creation of these blocks affects the military aspects, which I referred to in the first part of my speech.
In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the proposals we are discussing today are the result of one year's work by a high-level group, made up of civilian and military representatives from the Member States of the Union, and of a social group consisting of the various agents in the civil aviation sector and also with participation at all levels of this field.
We agree in many respects, but I would insist that what we need is a realistic position which allows us to move forward.
I thank you for your support, and in particular the work of the two rapporteurs, and I hope that in the conciliation stage we can rapidly achieve a positive result which allows us to create the famous Single European Sky before the end of 2004.
Nobody, after all, can grasp how it is that we still have almost forty blocks of airspace in the skies above fifteen Member States long after land borders have been abolished.
The issue of whose decision this should be is of the utmost importance, as the Member States have had enough time over the past decades to take the decision to create cross-border airspace blocks.
Join forces with Parliament, so that we may have a common European sky, in the interests of the people in the countries from which we come.
We have three times as many control centres as an area of comparable size in the USA, with a patchwork carpet - a product of the Sixties - in the skies above us.
With the number of journeys by air continuing to mount over the coming years, the whole thing is more and more a safety hazard, and, at the same time, highly inefficient; one in every four flights is delayed, and 350 000 flying hours are wasted every year.
Mr President, the legislative package being discussed to create a Single European Sky is a very challenging one.
I would like at this stage to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation and in taking this matter forward.
The problem with European airspace is congestion.
Nevertheless, in sparsely populated Member States, such as Finland, there are not very many problems of this sort.
One might wonder whether this is necessary to achieve the objectives or whether cooperation between the Member States would suffice.
If air traffic control services were charged based on average values it might well mean that charges would clearly rise in some areas.
A more delicate problem is the integration of military aviation and air defence with the European system.
Traditionally, military matters and questions of defence do not fall within the scope of the codecision procedure, involving the Council and Parliament, in the EU, and there is no justification for that now either.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after the first reading in Parliament, the Council's common position is, in my opinion, an important stage in the construction of a Community policy for air navigation.
The requirement for a separation of functions between service providers and the national monitoring authorities is, like the requirement for certification of service providers, a structuring measure.
In any case, I think it is reasonable for each Member State to retain the choice of how things operate in their countries.
I am even more convinced of this approach after spending two days last week at the annual conference of the 'air navigation' group of the ETF unions.
We can always reduce the staff in control centres, but it is not acceptable for one section of airspace to be managed by only one or two controllers: there are also human limits.
At the same time, in terms of airspace, progress has been made in that a single European flight information area in the upper airspace has been created and in that the Commission has produced a common publication on aeronautical information in that area; these are established facts.
Regarding the organisation of airspace and service provision, everyone agrees that safety requires anticipation, research and agreement between States and the service providers concerned.
In this way, it is the States that decide whether or not to give financial incentives to their service providers or users through taxes; this is the approach that I, personally, prefer.
What matters, then, is that we recognise the central role that Eurocontrol must play in preparing measures delegated to the Commission, which are part of the responsibilities of that organisation; in my opinion, this is a step forward.
Finally there is the recognition of the exclusive competence of the States in determining their defence operations, including processing them, which, I agree with you Commissioner, is not desirable.
I would lean more towards putting civil before military in peacetime, which is undoubtedly the situation today.
Having said this, the common position incorporates a large proportion of the amendments proposed by Parliament at first reading.
I thus find it regrettable that my group's proposal to double the control apparatus to ensure that operations continue if there is any failure, and the proposal to evaluate the correct implementation of the Directive, were not retained.
There are those employed in the sector who are already working in the European and world airspace and are determined to move Europe forward, and I think that we should listen to them.
Europe will be made using people from different sectors and will require their active participation; I do not think that there is any future without them.
Mr President, obviously the technical issues relating to this specific matter have been adequately analysed; consequently, I shall focus on the political aspect of the matter and say that the question of the Single European Sky is inspired by two different and somewhat contradictory philosophies.
The first philosophy considers that delayed flights, which are a very extensive phenomenon in Europe, are a serious blow to the airline companies, the passengers themselves, the environment and the economy as a whole.
One of the most basic reasons to which this situation is ascribed is the constant increase in air traffic and, more importantly, the lack of a common system for managing the airspace of the European countries.
The other philosophy reflects the concern of certain Member States who would like to secure their airspace rights, mainly in relation to their defence obligations and needs, and the corresponding facility to carry out military exercises in that space.
As in numerous other sectors of European policy, the choice of a real Community policy and uniform regulation have been judged more efficient.
If the Council agreed with the objective of the Single European Sky, it should have adopted a different strategy.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think that the reason why we have before us today a Council common position differing considerably from the initial Commission proposal and from what Parliament worked out is because, as we all know, this matter has arisen from a misunderstanding between the desire, on the one hand, to substitute the Commission for Eurocontrol, and on the other hand, to give the air traffic controllers too much responsibility for delays, particularly in 1999, which was marked by exceptional military constraints.
Although I am aware of the legal constraints that they imply, I approve of and encourage the efforts that the Commission is making so that the military authorities at least agree to have a discussion.
Mr President, before I go any further, I would also like to reiterate my complete readiness to implement all proposals genuinely geared towards improving cooperation and ensuring the best possible use of our airspace, while guaranteeing higher safety levels.
As Mrs De Palacio in particular has already emphasised, however, this is a delicate matter in technical, institutional and political terms, and it demands a high degree of realism and common sense.
So, Commissioner, as we come to the reports' second reading, let us, who are the majority in Parliament, and the Commission, be more courageous if we are to have a European added value in the skies above Europe!
I can support most of their amendments, but I have strong reservations about 10 out of the 51 amendments.
This compromise solution was arrived at after careful negotiations over many months.
Amendments that bring the military into the scope of the Single European Sky regulations will clearly be opposed by some Members and, I fear, by many in the Council.
Reopening the debate on this issue will clearly be counterproductive to the whole process of the Single European Sky.
In conclusion, there is a real danger that, by seeking to amend the common position in this regard, we might jeopardise the entire Single European Sky project, something I am sure that we all wish to avoid.
Mr President, the European Parliament rapporteurs would like to make us think that creating the Single European Sky would be a noble cause and a big step forward that Europeans should welcome.
The European Union is an association dominated by rival States that hold on to their borders, even in the sky.
The European authorities have already authorised the privatisation of the British body responsible for air traffic control.
Some of the Eurocontrol rules have also been modified to enable private companies to make profits in the air traffic control sector.
Air traffic control unions in Europe are rightly condemning this rampant privatisation and its consequences both for the safety of flights and for the staff's working conditions.
We are therefore once again expressing our opposition to this increased privatisation of the sky, which is damaging both to users and to air transport employees in the broad sense, and to the people in the flight path.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs and their shadows for all their hard work in dealing with this very technical report.
With regard to Amendments Nos 29 and 30, the Council's position on the flexible use of airspace, which has been practised in the UK for many years, in my view offered important benefits and greater effectiveness across Europe.
On other matters, Amendment No 3 - which refers to the establishment of a reserve - is questionable on the issue of charges as this could create a provision for Member States' subsidies and would not, therefore, be a legitimate measure under Community law.
Concerning Amendments Nos 24 and 31, which concern the automatic move towards a single lower airspace flight information region: placing an automatic requirement on states to put one in place within five years is, quite frankly, premature and unrealistic.
With regard to Amendment No 21 on functional blocks of airspace, which proposes a centrally-planned top-to-bottom approach: I believe this overlooks local requirements.
Mr President, Commissioner, we are evaluating today, at second reading, a package of measures designed to create a Single European Sky.
The first relates to what I view as the Commission's attempt to communitise the Member States' airspace through the immediate creation of a single European flight region, on the basis of which the so-called 'functional blocks' will be established.
I give my full support on this point to the Council's common position, according to which the delineation of the functional blocks falls within the exclusive competence of the Member States and cannot be changed by the European Union.
Secondly, moving on to military matters, the Commission proposals allow for the possibility of subjecting military activities to rules for airspace management and use.
Finally, I would like to refer to the question of airspace management, and express my total disagreement with any approach seeking to make airspace management out to be just another economic service comparable to the liberalised telecommunications or transport markets supervised by a European regulatory body.
I would like to remind you that in the field of aviation we have been taking giant steps over recent years in terms of creating common areas amongst the Member States of the Union, which until now were the exclusive competence of those States.
For example, in the field of air safety, through the European Air Safety Agency, which will allow us for the first time to provide a common certification of aircraft in Europe and which will allow us, amongst other things, to be able to certify the Airbus 380.
For example, when we propose new safety standards in the fight against terrorism and other types of attack, which are shared and common for all the States of the Union, with reviews and controls which guarantee that these common standards are applied by everybody.
And, for example, when we finally achieve a mandate for negotiation with the United States with regard to a common aviation zone between the United States and the European Union.
The STAR 21 initiative is a key initiative for the future.
Eurocontrol is taken into account and is going to participate - we have said this since the outset.
It has participated in all the meetings we have held on the Single European Sky in the high-level groups and throughout all this time, as a source of knowledge, in its capacity as a group of experts.
But we cannot allow the Commission to legislate on the basis of decisions by a body like Eurocontrol, which is in no way a Community body, but which is an intergovernmental body which includes a series of countries which do not belong to the European Union.
It is one thing to employ, contract and even reach agreements with Eurocontrol, so that it may act as an expert to which we refer and which provides us with certain types of information, documents and even proposals, but it is quite another to commit ourselves to legislate or act on the basis of what is said by an intergovernmental organisation containing third countries.
It was the Council that withdrew it from its common position and the Commission is pleased to reincorporate it because we believe we have to provide common training and qualifications for all air traffic controllers at European level, although there must then be specialisation in the specific area in which they have to operate and work.
With regard to liberalisation, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how to say this, because I have said it so many times ...
But we are talking about a question of possibilities, realities and urgent issues in a complicated area in relation to which we are all aware that the first pillar is one thing and that defence aspects are quite another, since we have no capacity to intervene in them.
I believe that the Council's compromise - and some of the honourable Members have said this - with regard to flexibility in terms of civil and military use, is a very acceptable compromise.
That would endanger the whole agreement, which is very fragile, as the honourable Members are well aware, on an initiative which is absolutely necessary and urgent.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
For these reasons, a majority on the Committee on Transport has decided to re-table all the amendments from first reading.
It is in everyone's interest that a transitional system enters into force by Christmas.
This sensitive dossier calls for a firm stance on the part of the European Parliament.
As you know, the objective of reaching conciliation quickly has the full support of the Commission, since the current system ends on 31 December 2003.
In this situation, the Commission must act in accordance with the commitment made on 31 December 2002, and confirmed on 28 March 2003, and must therefore reject the majority of the amendments presented by the European Parliament.
The paradox is that the Council proceeded to the common position as if Parliament did not exist.
Thus, of necessity, things are moving towards the conciliation procedure.
And this Treaty talks about the free movement of persons, capital and goods.
This is the position of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
This second extension demonstrates the flexibility and willingness, the good political sense of Parliament, of the entire Parliament.
As for my second point, Mr President, I would like to stress that there have been attempts in this debate to establish, often surreptitiously, a false distinction between those who defend nature and those who pollute.
Another important point is that we considered it necessary to prevent a further derogation for particularly tolerant treatment being offered to certain countries - Greece and Portugal - in this case on the proposal of the Council.
I will not add anything else, Mr President, apart from the fact that this lengthy debate, these lengthy discussions, where we have often been forced to repeat and go back over concepts, reasoning and even inflexible positions which were always the same, has been an important test, more for each of us than for Parliament: a difficult test because it involved - something which is not uncommon but, in this case, may have been more marked - casting off our civil clothing, that of the citizen of one Member State, which is a uniform but which, in Parliament, is often constricting, in order to put on the highly dignified and decorous attire of a Member of the European Parliament who must act, respond and intervene on behalf of the whole Parliament.
In this regard, the Caveri report is a perfect response to this request for dignity which Parliament made of its rapporteur, in that it is a report that serves, first and foremost, the interests of Europeans.
This applies to vehicles fitted with engines in European categories Euro 2 and Euro 3.
What this study now shows us is that it can be established that there is no scientific basis for the reduction of the number of ecopoints logged per transit journey for Euro 2 and Euro 3 as against Euro 1.
What the proposals by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism mean, as does the free run for HGVs in European category 3 that it is looking to implement, is that Austria is going, in the fullest sense of the word, to be overrun.
I therefore ask you to support Amendment No 19, which has been tabled by a number of Members of this House from different political groups, as it prevents the worst from coming to pass and will represent a workable compromise in negotiations with the Council.
Europe needs a directive on transport infrastructure costs; European policy needs instruments for a sustainable transport policy; Austria, in the meantime, needs a transitional arrangement.
The majority in this House may well turn a deaf ear to these concerns, but their doing so will mean that Europe will be doing the people of Austria a disservice.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think Parliament has done its homework very well, in that it has done everything it can to get through second reading as quickly as possible.
I would not want to miss this opportunity to extend thanks to the Commission for now having commenced Treaty infringement proceedings against Austria in respect of the unilateral steps taken by the province of Tyrol, and I hope that this will yield results before 1 August, when these rules enter into force.
That, too, sends a clear signal that we are a community founded on the rule of law, where it is not open to all to do as they please, but in which all share in drafting and enacting the law, which must therefore also be obeyed by all.
Therefore, as has already been mentioned, this is not about standing up for pettifogging local interests.
It would be a positive aspect of our decision if we, despite all the other points of criticism, could include category 3 as well.
I am not saying that the free movement of goods does not matter.
I simply think that what must surely count in the eyes of our electorate as a whole - and certainly in the eyes of those in Bavaria - is that priority should be given to health and to the environment.
Let us then proceed to conciliation: the positions of the Council and the countries concerned still differ, as everyone is aware, and that means that we have to find a satisfactory solution in conciliation by the end of this year.
I think we should give priority to the credibility of the European Union, to the fact that, when we go to our countries and talk to our citizens, perhaps asking them for sacrifices in various sectors, we need to be able to say that we are asking for these sacrifices because there is a higher common good, called Europe, called a community of rights, called freedom of movement, freedom of trade and the whole series of common values that we are putting in place.
If, however, we cannot go with this peace of mind and must then tell our fellow citizens that in Europe some are in Division One, and some are in Division Two, then it all gets difficult and it is the credibility of the European institution which will collapse.
The problem of living in a healthy, compatible environment is shared by all the citizens of Europe, not just Austrian citizens.
It must be clear that the scheme will end, that the derogations will end, that the rule of law will be restored, after which we will seek for the whole Alpine region, for both sides of the Alps, to establish the precautions which will take us to 2006 by cutting emissions, because this is what we all want, but no one must be under the illusion that we can make anything other than a very few changes.
I therefore hope that conciliation will offer us deadlines for a rapid end to an affair which we all, I repeat, want to bring to a close, but in accordance with Community law.
Mr President, attitudes close to Mr Berlusconi's lurk all over the place, including - as these developments show - in HGV transport, which is such an important sector.
It is unfortunate that Parliament, at first reading stage, did not see it as really important that the right to free transport should be balanced against the rights of people and of the environment on transit routes.
To these Members, we Austrians have made an offer in the form of Amendments Nos 18 and 19, to which reference has already been made, in the hope that they will vote for them.
If you travel through Austria - to Hungary via Linz and Vienna - in terms of the topography involved, that is exactly the same as when Swedes and Danes travel to Rotterdam via Hamburg.
There is, however, no privilege for Austria on the grounds of its citizens being of more value than the citizens of Italy or France.
The Council has not gone along with our idea of this broader spread, so now we are going through the same rigmarole with them all over again.
In December, it came up with this wretched compromise - which I will call a sham solution rather than a compromise - and, after ignoring our arguments at first reading stage, re-adopted the nonsense from December.
Austria cannot get on its moral high horse when no work has been done on building the Brenner tunnel since the 1996 decision on the trans-European networks was taken.
The Dutch transport minister, Mrs Karla Peijs, has recently tried to achieve a consensus with the Council - and what have we heard?
However, while we are here trying to reach a difficult agreement on ecopoints, what is the Governor of North Tyrol planning?
He is inventing a rule on the basis of which he will ban the transit of lorries of over seven and a half tonnes for a vast range of goods, practically all those in the construction sector, with effect from 1 August on the section between the municipalities of Kundl and Ampass: almost a joke in the debate we are having.
Fortunately, the Commission, this time, at least - congratulations, Commissioner! - took timely action: it immediately instituted an infringement procedure on 24 June, and we are now waiting to see whether there will be a judgment by the Court of Justice or whether the Tyrol will reconsider and withdraw this measure, which is directly in conflict with Article 38 of the Treaty on the free movement of goods.
However, it is important to act quickly because it is necessary to avoid another type of damage in addition to environmental damage: economic loss, which is detrimental to the interests of all haulage contractors, many of which have actually gone bankrupt in the meantime.
As an Austrian, I can say that we are very proud of what we have achieved where the environment is concerned.
It is a political problem, a real problem and the proof is that we are discussing this initiative, which is an initiative specifically designed for Austria.
The main objective of the 39 amendments adopted by Parliament was to bring the regulation into line with the real needs of passengers and to make it more practicable for airlines.
Subsequently, the Council's common position, although it significantly changed the initial form of the regulation, nevertheless incorporated a large number of concerns raised by Parliament: the Council has achieved a significant amount, but a few points remain unclear, particularly given the objective which we set ourselves, which is to draw up clear, transparent rules for passengers that are, at the same time, sustainable by airlines, which, as we all know, are passing through a very difficult period.
In fact, in my opinion, minimal changes are needed with regard to the definition of tourist operators and reciprocity of the right of redress - Amendments Nos 5 and 16 - but, on the whole, the Council's position has, from this point of view, put the problem in the right perspective, since it has placed overall, general responsibility on the carrier operating the service.
At first reading Parliament opted for a single distance criterion, in other words division into three bands of distance expressed in kilometres for compensation, delay and the placing of passengers in a higher or lower class.
In its common position, however, the Council adopted three different criteria for division, and even introduced a new criterion (inside or outside the European Union) with no clear justification.
That is why, in this case too, we propose to combine in a single criterion these three different proposals from the Council: a single criterion, that is three distance bands for all cases.
I feel that the Council's proposal, which is the result of a laborious compromise, does not offer us the necessary clarity in this case either and runs the risk of considerably complicating communication with passengers.
I would ask the House to support this position, which, as I said, attempts to make what we are trying to say clearer and easier to communicate to passengers and airlines too.
I am delighted that Parliament largely accepts the Council's common position, since it is a balanced text which has the objective of protecting passengers without, as a result, forgetting the interests of the industry, an industry which we know is not experiencing the best of times.
The Commission therefore supported the common position, although we would have preferred higher compensation sums, as the honourable Members are well aware.
Fortunately, Parliament is not proposing a reduction of this compensation since we believe they are at the minimum level necessary to provide air companies with the incentive to seek volunteers rather than directly preventing passengers from boarding against their will.
I would like to inform you that the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 8, 10 and 11, relating to cancellations and delays, which simplify the text and eliminate possible application problems while at the same time offering passengers a global level of protection similar to that contained in the common position.
We cannot, however, accept Amendments Nos 1 to 7, 9, 15, 17, 18 and 21.
Specifically, I would like to say that Amendment No 1 and Amendment No 9 would mean excluding passengers on package tours from the scope of the regulation.
The directive on package tourism does not offer this level of protection and to exclude package tours would lead to two different levels of protection for passengers who are facing the same difficulties and who might well be sitting next to each other.
Secondly, to say that passengers, thunderstruck to learn that they cannot travel even though they have a ticket or whose flight is cancelled at the last minute, obviously need adequate legal protection from the European Union and from our legal framework.
At first reading, the European Parliament took an overall position, looking at this need but also not ignoring the individual interests of the airlines and tour operators, especially at this crucial stage for both air transport and tourism.
There is also, however, the issue, to which the rapporteur referred, of Amendments Nos 1 and, especially 9, relating to tour operators; in other words, as to whether they are included within the framework of the directive or are treated separately.
When these things happen, they will get substantially better assistance and twice as much by way of compensation, not only on regular services but also on charter flights and in respect of various services offered by travel operators.
It is, unfortunately, only next summer that this good news for passengers will be for real.
While this is, on the one hand, attributable to the difficult situation in which airlines currently find themselves, it also represents an opportunity - an opportunity to supply all passengers, in good time, with comprehensive information, comparable, for example, to the charter of passengers' rights displayed at all airports.
After all, the best laws are of no use if they are not known about and if they cannot be implemented in a consumer-friendly way.
No account is taken of the differences and the business practices of the various aviation niches in the European market.
The extent seems to me to be particularly limited: only 10% of cancelled fights are eligible for compensation in actual fact.
In the event of flight cancellations, passengers have the right to know when they are entitled to compensation and when they are not.
Compensation does not apply in the case of force majeure.
In fact, similar rules should apply to all providers of transport services, then we would see a great deal fewer dissatisfied passengers on public transport.
The helicopter shuttle to the Isles of Scilly provides an essential public service and is the mainstay of the islands' economy.
I am equally sure that these regulations cannot have been intended to apply to them with the same rigour as to fully-fledged airlines.
If this happened, it would of course have a devastating effect on all Scillonians, whether or not they actually use the service.
Firstly, I thank God that the passengers are not going to have to bear the brunt of the great disputes that I can foresee, on the basis of the current rules, when it comes to defining whether an airline should or should not bear responsibility for a delay.
Mr President, this new regulation is - as has been said - very important for passengers.
It is very much awaited too, as the fierce competition between companies means the quality of services is still, it has to be said, a cause for considerable criticism.
I understand that this is not about over-regulating, but providing a clear framework for dealing with claims and compensation, because passengers are generally ill-informed of their rights in relation to powerful and influential companies, and I support the many speakers who have expressed that point of view.
I also know that those same companies are going through a difficult period, particularly since 11 September 2001.
However, I would like to ask one or two questions on the problem of refusing boarding.
During the plenary debate at first reading, the Commission stated that this overbooking was a marginal phenomenon compared with the general flow of air passengers.
I would like to know whether we are really certain of that.
The Commission says it has figures close to 250 000 passengers refused in 1999, that is, 1.1 per thousand.
The reason I am asking these questions is that I had a problem less than a month ago on a Nice to Brussels flight with SN Brussels Airlines.
One case among 250 000 others, I imagine.
I am therefore not so certain that this phenomenon is as marginal as that and I can only welcome, like other speakers before me, the increase, in this new regulation, in the protection of passengers' rights.
The vote will be at 12 noon tomorrow.
WRITTEN STATEMENT (RULE 120) The regulation under consideration aims to protect air passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights.
The proposal we are debating, however, does not fully comply with that objective, and the amendments tabled weaken the Council common position, which was already, in some ways, a retrograde step in relation to the Commission's proposal.
The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0220/2003) by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the Council common position with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation on the granting of Community financial assistance to improve the environmental performance of the freight transport system ('Marco Polo Programme') (5327/1/2003 - C5-0225/2003 - 2002/0038(COD)) (Rapporteur: Philip Charles Bradbourn).
Due to health reasons he cannot join us and, therefore, I am reading, on his behalf, the speech he prepared earlier.
As Mr Bradbourn has reiterated on many occasions during the formulation of this programme, it must strike a balance, and he firmly believes this common position would do just that.
The common position will mean that the programme remains market-driven, thus providing an excellent opportunity to show that the European Union is prepared to help not hinder business, as is often the case.
The sooner the Marco Polo Programme becomes active, the better for Europe's transport sector.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, in general, to thank Parliament for its constructive attitude, which, thanks to a tripartite and informal meeting which took place last November, has allowed us to reach an agreement which will mean that we can implement the Marco Polo programme quickly with a contribution of EUR 75 million in four years.
This project must facilitate the development of intermodality within the European Union.
Intermodality is absolutely essential if we want to make our transport systems more effective and efficient.
Intermodality consists of overcoming the unimodal approach to transport and taking account of all the different systems and modes in order to optimise the resources and possibilities we have within the European Union in order to achieve efficient transport.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for support under the Marco Polo instrument to be made available to European actors in the field of freight transport; the sense of urgency with which this is awaited is demonstrated by the large number of applications submitted in response to what was a small-scale announcement.
There is a vital need to reduce congestion and improve the freight transport system, especially from the point of view of the environment, as the volume of traffic grows.
Our group supports the Marco Polo programme and is satisfied with the Council's common position.
The aim must be to switch from the forms of transport that cause the most pollution to the other most environmentally friendly forms.
It has been agreed in the common position that minimum thresholds should be halved regarding all categories of action.
The programme's budget is quite modest and the objective very ambitious.
Mr President, Commissioner, we are dealing today with the Marco Polo programme, aimed at reducing traffic congestion and contributing to a more effective and sustainable transport system.
We are going to vote in favour of the text proposed by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, but we cannot say that we are completely satisfied with it.
To this end, and according to the data in the White Paper on transport, the railways and ships should absorb an extra 39% in terms of tonnes of goods per kilometre than it currently does, which when added to its own trend of increase, which is now 29%, would mean a 68% total increase in its capacity for traffic, which I do not believe can be financed with the reduced budget.
In other words, the objectives of the Marco Polo programme could not be achieved.
Neither are we pleased about the fact that the possibility of funding actions for the reduction and prevention of goods transport by road, without necessarily implying transfer to other modes, has not been included.
And finally, although this may be the subject of a different proposal, we believe that it is also necessary to consider reflecting on the current model of production and distribution of goods.
If we truly incorporate, without a single exception, all the external costs of transport, perhaps we will reach the conclusion that we should reconsider our theory of economy of scale in production and of the benefits of its concentration.
The vote will be at 12 noon tomorrow.
A year ago, the European Parliament presented to Commissioner Liikanen its opinion on the Commission's Communication of July 2001.
In its resolution, the European Parliament essentially made two requests: firstly, with regard to form, Parliament called for framework legislation to be proposed in this field, including a clear and realistic timetable for the application of mid-term and final objectives, as well as the methods for monitoring its application; secondly, with regard to content, it requested, as a long term objective, the application as from 2010 of the four tests recommended by the European Enhanced Safety Vehicle Committee or other tests which would offer the same level of protection for pedestrians.
The Commission's proposal for a Directive of 19 February this year is intended to respond to Parliament's wishes.
Amendments Nos 1, 2, 5 and 7 insist that the proposal is one element of a broader range of measures needed to guarantee a high level of protection for pedestrians, which includes active safety measures and changes to infrastructures.
The Commission agrees with and accepts these suggestions.
Amendments Nos 3, 6, 8 and 16 are intended to clarify that the problem of pedestrian protection can be dealt with through passive safety measures or combining active and passive safety measures, and we also accept these amendments because we share the rapporteur's approach.
I can say the same with regard to Amendments Nos 9, 10 and 11, which refer to the application of the directive, obliging the Commission to inform the legislator with regard to the monitoring of that directive within a specified time period and specifying the comitology procedure to be followed with a view to the modification of the directive if that modification is restricted to introducing passive safety measures.
Finally, we accept Amendment No 4, which requests that the Commission examine the viability of extending the scope of the Directive to vehicles of up to 3.5 tonnes in the future.
In summary, the Commission accepts all the amendments presented by the Committee on Transport, as well as Amendment No 16.
However, we cannot accept Amendments Nos 12, 13, 14, 15, 17 and 18.
Given the importance of this proposal to road safety and the timetable laid down for the application of the tests, as well as the consultation on the possible initiatives in the field of protecting pedestrians which preceded this proposal, the Commission hopes that it will be approved at first reading.
Active measures, and a combination of active and passive measures, however, must remain an option in this proposal, so that it offers even more guarantees of safety than the method currently laid down.
It does not apply here, because the test method proposed has been tested on vehicles in the category up to 2 500 kg for 20 years.
I am delighted that the Commission is accepting those so we can move ahead as quickly as possible.
I would like to make one or two comments on our two proposed amendments, one of which the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism was kind enough to accept, and also some broader points about the whole proposal.
First of all the recital that we proposed focuses very much on the importance of active safety measures, working with passive safety measures, in delivering the overall safety improvements that we want.
I declare an interest in this in that I am an automotive engineer and I have driven some of the cars with that technology.
It is important to emphasise the practical nature of this.
If we have technologies that will reduce collision speeds by sensing impending impacts, or even alter the direction of the impact, it will make a very substantial improvement.
Anybody who thinks that these Stage II tests are a pushover, or are easily attainable with current technology, needs to take a serious look at what is going on in the industry and not sit in this House drawing up unrealistic amendments.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, not always does the Commission make use of its opportunities to comply with the demands of the overwhelming majority in the European Parliament to such an extent as it has done with this framework directive.
We in this House must neither stand in the way of the EEVC tests being further developed on the basis of practice, nor fundamentally reject the development of alternative procedures that offer at least as much protection.
Road safety is important to the European Parliament, a fact that is clear from this report.
I think there are a lot of interesting aspects to it, and I am looking forward to being able to continue debating it here in Parliament.
The programme has been very much influenced by the road safety debate we have had in Parliament in recent years.
Then, there are also committee amendments concerning sports cars: the large cars that we know are extremely dangerous and to which the Commission has also drawn attention in its road safety programme.
This represents a great danger in populous urban areas, in particular, but also on narrow country roads with ribbon development.
The use of sharp decorative fittings was banned at national level as many as 40 years ago, but there are still manufacturers and drivers who consider outward appearance more important than other people's safety.
I have been pressing for legislation against the trend - still predominant at that time - for a long time in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
In plenary conclusions a year ago, Parliament demanded a framework directive in addition to the voluntary agreements with European and Asian automobile manufacturers.
Today, I am arguing in favour of the amendments to it that afford maximum protection to non-motorists, instead of continuing to place our hope in motorists switching on their headlights in daylight, for example.
This directive relates to the protection of vulnerable road users in the event of a collision with a motor vehicle.
We support this approach, but we are of the opinion that it is necessary to impose quality requirements on active systems, too.
The vote will be at 12 noon tomorrow. (The sitting closed at midnight) We have tried to seek a compromise.
The alternative measures to the effective EEVC tests (which have proven to be effective for more than 20 years) should not therefore differ from the latter by more than 25%.
The common position is, in effect, completely disproportionate in requiring all the substances used in the manufacturing process to be displayed on the labels.
We are in favour of transparency to inform consumers of the ingredients in products, but we are opposed to over-labelling, which would be disastrous for the agrifood chains which are vital for France and many other countries.
