The European Parliament has been calling for European directives on equal treatment between persons ever since 1995, and the Treaty of Amsterdam gave us a legal basis for this at long last.
Parliament has always opposed the hierarchy of grounds for discrimination that has arisen.
After all, why should it be possible to refuse someone a loan for being homosexual, but not for being black?
I am really proud of the compromise adopted by a vast majority in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
For example, insurance companies are still permitted to differentiate according to age or disability, provided they can give an objective justification for this.
I would like to applaud the supporting role played by Parliament in submitting the draft directive.
Nevertheless I would like to say that this draft requires unanimous consent in the Council and we must therefore remain realistic.
In the Commission Communication on non-discrimination of July 2008 we committed to launching a discussion on this issue among the newly-established groups of government experts.
I could agree to a reference to multiple discrimination in the areas covered by this draft directive.
The directive will not change the definition as such, but our aim is to achieve the greatest possible degree of legal certainty.
The positions of the Commission and Parliament are very similar here.
I agree with some of the other ideas that were expressed, but in my opinion it is necessary to ensure that Article 4 is concise and intelligible.
We have worked very closely together, not just on this report, but, as she knows, along with other people, we have both been working on this issue for many years now, for the 10 years since I came into the European Parliament.
Now, eventually, we have got to the situation where we are debating an anti-discrimination directive, a possibility at long last that we might push through anti-discrimination legislation on all grounds not covered - disability, age, religion or belief, and sexual orientation.
We could not just go forward with a disability directive, and then an age directive, because I thought sexual orientation and religion would be left behind.
I am also very pleased we got such a large majority in Parliament for that own-initiative report.
A wheelchair user or a guide-dog user should have free access anywhere within the European Union.
We were founded on human rights and anti-discrimination.
Access to healthcare is a fundamental right confirmed by Article 35 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and it is one of the chief tasks of the public authorities of the Member States to provide equal access for all to a quality healthcare system.
In particular, the amendments that we as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety have highlighted are those on encouraging the promotion of health literacy programmes, continuing to promote action to combat violence against women, fighting the denial of medical treatment on the grounds of old age, but above all - and I come back to this issue - promoting equal access to quality services in all Member States.
This directive should represent an impetus to improve national legislation, above all in countries such as my own, where the tide must be turned.
Of course we are all against discrimination, but one dare not question the route we are taking here for fear of being pushed into a corner.
It is possible to raise these things, even if one is committed to fighting discrimination.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is opposed to discrimination, and will always work to combat it, but we must be allowed to argue in this Parliament about how to do so.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Tomorrow, we shall have a unique opportunity to take a historic step in the fight against discrimination by saying 'no' to this phenomenon.
There is no reasonable explanation for the fact that the law against discrimination offers protection beyond the workplace to a black homosexual on grounds of skin colour, but not of sexual orientation.
Therefore, we call on Parliament to retain these important provisions.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I should like to start by adding my heartfelt compliments and thanks to the rapporteur, who has done a fantastic job.
A single European area where everyone is equal before the law, enjoys equal opportunities in society and is treated with respect.
This Directive is about Europe as a community of values, and values cannot be negotiated by 27 governments in the course of the usual trade-off of national interests.
We determine values together as citizens, in an open debate, and the European Parliament is the appropriate arena for this.
We have a responsibility towards all our European citizens, however, we cannot let Europe turn into Animal Farm: 'All Europeans are equal, but some Europeans are more equal than others'.
Freedom of religion must not be misused as a licence to discriminate against others, however.
It is a disgrace that, in 2009, millions of people are still having to fear discrimination, hatred, violence and even murder in Europe, merely on account of their sexual orientation.
Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote in favour of this report, in the interests of the citizens we all represent.
It is true that each Member State has its own issues, but the European Parliament has shown that differences can be bridged and that we can agree on rights for all European citizens.
The Buitenweg report rides roughshod over these limits in every respect.
It overturns guarantees for national family and adoption legislation in Amendment 50.
Amendment 52 of the report undermines the guarantee of freedom for religious communities themselves in Member States.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank our rapporteur, Mrs Buitenweg, for all her work.
In addition, ladies and gentlemen of the PPE-DE Group, it cannot have escaped your notice that Article 10 of the EU's Charter of Fundamental Rights treats the religion and beliefs of every single person as equal.
The Netherlands leaves scope for an admissions policy that is in keeping with a school's fundamental principles.
However, Amendments 29 and 51 restrict the freedom of schools to make these choices on the basis of principle, and furthermore I share the view of Mr Weber and others.
It has to go, not only because it entails far too much red tape, but also, in particular, because it essentially infringes the principle of subsidiarity.
Unfortunately, we all know that this amendment does not stand a chance, as this House never loses an opportunity to show its most politically correct side and always opts for more bureaucracy and more decision-making over the heads of European citizens.
As much as I support realistic measures to combat any form of discrimination, I must also criticise the points being discussed here, because they are simply not justified and will not have the desired effect.
Article 13 of the Treaty is our cornerstone, and I must emphasise that Member States can guarantee a higher level of protection.
This is because, to be even more precise, some Member States have a very high level of protection; such cases do exist.
From a very young age our children suffer discrimination that traumatises them, and they carry the burden of this discrimination for the rest of their lives.
I must draw your attention in particular to multiple discrimination.
In conclusion, I must add that we hope that, for 2010, there will be a Commission proposal putting gender discrimination on the same footing, as this would put an end to any hierarchy of rights. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like those who have spoken before me, I would like first of all to thank our two rapporteurs, Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Lynne, for the outstanding work that they have done in what was, I would point out, a context of enhanced cooperation.
Recent statistics show that in Europe, where society is so advanced, a minority of citizens say they have suffered discrimination.
That is why - I shall finish here - our fear is that this proposal for a directive tends towards unnecessary reverse extremism, and the cure could prove worse than the original problem. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this directive finally closes the gaps in anti-discrimination law, and allows the European Union to meet its international obligations to protect human rights, as well as its obligations under the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
Thus, to me, it is an unnecessary directive infringing basic rights, particularly of people of faith and conscience, and illustrates all that is over-reaching, meddling and wrong-headed within the EU. (RO) The Commission's initiative to extend the application of the principle of equality of treatment to other areas of social life as well, using a global directive which bans discrimination outside the workplace, based on disability, age, religion or belief and sexual orientation, is, in principle, necessary to be able to finalise the anti-discrimination legislative package.
The European People's Party has always supported the promotion of diversity as an important objective of the European Union and the fight against discrimination.
Nothing in this report undermines subsidiarity or proportionality.
This directive defends human dignity.
I have to say that this directive, as it has been submitted to the Commission, is one which came into being organically, out of a profound debate in Parliament and countless debates at Commission level and therefore it is a directive which is well thought-out and which expresses a firm and clear approach to values.
This question has already been resolved in previous directives, so there is no new discovery in this case either.
Irrespective of the fact that in many legal systems the burden of proof is already transferred for far less important reasons or for reasons of comparable importance.
In my opinion there is nothing more significant for the European Union than the concept of non-discrimination.
The Commission text allows discriminatory access and I am not persuaded that Amendment 51 resolves the problem.
I will probably vote against both. (LV) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think anyone in this Chamber is in favour of discrimination.
Similarly, I think that people in this Parliament are opposed to discrimination.
Religion is certainly important to many Europeans, and I respect that, but we live in a secular society.
The expectations on us are high and I hope that everyone has the courage to vote in favour of this tomorrow and not against it as you have advocated. (NL) Mr President, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur.
Therefore, we must be careful, because the statement made in Article 3 according to the wording proposed by Amendment 52 of the report by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs introduces a principle diametrically opposed to Declaration 11 in Article 17 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
In short, I am convinced that if we want to defend the person from the outset and in their entirety, we must also defend those aspects that characterise the person from a religious point of view.
Mr President, the Chair of our Committee, Mr Deprez, spoke for so many of us in this House when he said that this was not a report about sectional interests or a report of the Left, but a report by Mrs Buitenweg, which was full of thoughtfulness, sensitivity and compromise where people were concerned.
That is what this report is about.
Let us not add further exceptions to those that already exist. (PT) Mr President, Mr Barrot, ladies and gentlemen, I, alongside my colleagues from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, voted for this report in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
As in all compromises, there are points on which we successfully make our opinion prevail and others which we find harder to accept.
We are talking about a compromise which has to take into account the legislation, accepted practice and various cultural traditions existing in the 27 Member States.
The same applies to Article 8, which Amendment 90 of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats aims to remove because, given the existing legislative traditions in many Member States, it is not possible to accept the inversion of the burden of proof as that will cause insuperable legal problems.
If these key points are adopted in plenary session, I will be unable to vote for this report.
I am fully in favour of a Europe that ceaselessly fights all forms of discrimination. (ES) Mr President, the proposal for a directive which we are debating today projects the principle of equality as a brand mark of the European project.
We must also achieve an adequate level of protection against all grounds for discrimination listed in Article 13 of the Treaty.
This initiative should arm us with better tools for fighting possible discriminatory behaviour, which to our shame, is still a reality today, as highlighted in yesterday's report on homophobia by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights.
The citizens of Europe, and most importantly, the most vulnerable, would not forgive us. (HU) Pursuant to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, every citizen enjoys equal rights and freedoms and equal protection of the law without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.
But I would like to emphasise that decisive and effective action is required against every form of discrimination, for discrimination is still strong in Europe and affects many different layers of society.
We need independent institutions working at European level that can monitor and guarantee that States commit themselves to the principle of equal treatment not only in theory, but also adopt concrete steps in order to implement this directive effectively. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I want to ask you if you consider the fact that I am talking to you sitting down back here and have not risen like all my other fellow members an insult to this House.
In any event, I consider that we should support the report, thereby sending the Council a clear message that we must, at long last, have effective European legislation which puts an end to the discrimination which undermines confidence in the fundamental European values of equality and the rule of law. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a journalist, I would like to draw attention to a change in this directive that is of great concern to me personally.
On the contrary, as a Christian believer I call upon the European Parliament and each individual to not only stop discrimination but to help those who are being discriminated against because of their disability.
As Europe continues to integrate, it is paramount that we remember that we are all different yet perfectly equal in all regards. (BG) Mr President, Commissioner, we are discussing an extremely important directive, which will provide an opportunity to resolve issues which are still controversial in the area of non-discrimination.
I feel it is especially important that it reaffirms the right and freedom of religious beliefs and the application of the principle of non-discrimination in this area.
The right is also recognised of Member States to draft and implement specific provisions in this area.
Relations must be made clear so as to avoid infringing anyone's rights, including the rights of those who belong to the churches sanctioned by legal regulations. (DE) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, since I am the one who has been quoted the most in this debate, I would like the opportunity to respond once again.
All the speakers who have vehemently spoken against discrimination have talked about the principle.
There are issues about private contracts that you are concerned about, but on public duties you are far ahead of the game.
In the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supported this report, because it represented a reasonable compromise.
Yet there are already a great many directives that have provided protection on the labour market for a long time now, and protection against discrimination on a great many other grounds is also provided outside the labour market, but the protection for some people lags behind, for example in the case of disability, age, sexual orientation and religion.
These are the very specific points that are mentioned in the report.
The vote will take place on Thursday 2 April 2009.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (IT) Human dignity and equality are the two great values on which the modern culture of human rights is founded.
I have the impression, however, that an attempt is being made to latch on to this established movement in order to impose discrimination against the family founded on marriage between a man and a woman and against religious freedom, especially as concerns religious schools.
Discrimination of this kind has no place in a modern society and I reject the efforts of some political groups to weaken the legislation in this regard.
in writing. - I am a Socialist, which means I believe that all human beings are equal.
Indeed, there can be no hierarchy among discriminations.
The purpose of the directive is to implement the principle of equal treatment between persons, irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation outside the labour market.
It sets out a framework for the prohibition of discrimination on these grounds and establishes a uniform minimum level of protection within the European Union for people who have suffered such discrimination.
This proposal supplements the existing EC legal framework, under which the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, applies only to employment, occupation and vocational training.
The European Parliament has waited more than four years for the proposed directive.
The latter represents an attempt to implement the principles of equal treatment of individuals regardless of religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation.
A significant number of Member States of the Union have already introduced provisions guaranteeing a varying degree of protection beyond the labour market against discrimination on the grounds of religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation.
The present draft directive will allow the introduction of cohesive European provisions in this area.
Freedom from discrimination is a fundamental right and should be enjoyed by everyone in the European Union.
Freedom from discrimination is a fundamental right and should apply to every citizen of the European Union.
Article 13 of the Treaty on European Union sets out the aim of combating discrimination based not only on sex and ethnic origin but also religion, belief, disability, age and sexual orientation.
The proposed directive is intended to fill this gap and we hope that, in addition to prohibiting discrimination, it will provide a legal remedy for those suffering disadvantages in all 27 Member States.
in writing. - (DE) The legal basis used, Article 13(1) of the EC Treaty, is not appropriate considering that, in the opinion of the German Free Democratic Party (FDP), the principle of subsidiarity is not being adhered to.
We therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - (FI) When it is implemented, the Equality Directive will be one of the most important steps forward this electoral term for a social Europe and a Europe of the people.
In this regard I would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
This should not be possible in today's society, where there is respect for human rights and equality: everyone should have an equal opportunity to participate in society.
in writing. - (ET) The European Union is based on the joint principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Article 21 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights states that any discrimination based on any ground such as sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion, membership of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation shall be prohibited. [this is a direct quotation from the legislation] The recognition of the uniqueness of each individual and their equal right to the opportunities offered by life is one of the attributes of Europe's united diversity, which is a central element in the union's cultural, political and social integration.
The above-mentioned framework will probably lead to the implementation of the principle of equal treatment in Member States more widely than just in the labour market.
Thus a great deal of effort is still required on our part in order to eliminate discrimination in Europe.
The right not to be discriminated against is a fundamental right which has never been questioned in terms of its applicability to EU citizens.
I would also like to stress the importance of comparing this new directive with those already in force for combating discrimination.
