Kidnapping in Gaza of the journalist Alan Johnston The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the kidnapping in Gaza of the journalist Alan Johnston.
Such is the case with BBC journalist Alan Johnston, abducted in Gaza 46 days ago.
This has resonated among his audience, 50 000 of whom have this week signed the online petition asking for his release.
We call upon the Palestinian people to redouble their efforts to secure the release of Alan Johnston.
In this isolated area, a large section of the Palestinian population live like sardines, with no job, with no income and with no adequate housing.
All Palestinian leaders, President Mahmoud Abbas, Prime Minister Ismail Haniya and the PLO's imprisoned party leader, Marwan Barghouti, unanimously condemn heinous acts of this kind.
We now have a duty to ensure that that record is not beaten in 2007, and we have an obligation to help bring about the release of Alan Johnston.
We know that they understand that Alan Johnston has done more than anyone to report on their suffering over a period of 16 years.
Finally, to Alan Johnston's family and friends, I express my sincere support on behalf of the PPE-DE Group in this Parliament.
The kidnappers who have been holding the journalist for 46 days and President Abbas must know that they are holding back the whole of Palestine on its path to development and are consigning it to isolation.
I wish to emphasise that Alan Johnston's release is vital to the safety of all journalists working in the Middle East.
Madam President, Alan Johnston has been a BBC journalist for 16 years and has worked in a variety of countries, including Afghanistan and Uzbekistan, so he has not exactly chosen a comfortable life!
The year 2006 saw the highest death toll since 1994 when 103 died, in particular in Rwanda, Algeria and the former Yugoslavia.
I thank all those in Gaza - journalists and citizens of all kinds - for their vocal demands for Alan Johnston's release.
The BBC correspondent, Alan Johnston, was abducted in Gaza on 12 March.
Commissioner Michel also repeated those requests in his meetings with other Palestinian interlocutors during his trip to the region.
