I believe that it is largely because of his efforts that the 2007 budget is innovative and based on the 'value for money' principle.
It is this delegation's view that the amendment is incompatible with the regulations currently in force, for which reason we have felt obliged to vote against it.
The Danish Liberal Party believes in reforming agricultural aid, but does not believe that this is the way to achieve such a reform, nor that the report on the annual budget is the place to state one's desire for proposals to that effect.
In 22 years as a Member, this is the shortest budget vote I can recall.
Such a reduction would start from the top, with a EUR 40 000 ceiling per legal entity, as I proposed in my amendment to the budget.
in writing. - (FR) I feel that Mr Langen's report on a strategy for biomass and biofuels successfully describes all of the advantages and disadvantages of using renewable energy sources.
The group of the Greek Communist Party in the European Parliament voted for the proposal to amend Article 4, paragraph 3 of Regulation (ΕC) No 417/2002, both during approval in the Committee on Transport and Tourism on 22 November 2006 and in plenary in the European Parliament on 14 December 2006, so that heavy grades of oil are only carried in double-hull tankers.
Only the peoples are unvanquished when they decide to claim and impose their rights in return. (SK) The principles of non-discrimination and gender equality are democratic cornerstones of the European Union.
I am convinced that, through our interventions and the active promotion of Slovakia in the European Parliament, fellow MEPs Mrs Záborská, Mrs Bauer, Mrs Belohorská and myself contributed substantially towards efforts aimed at establishing the Institute in Bratislava.
Finally, following the Commission's proposal to set up a European Institute for Gender Equality, Parliament adopted its position at first reading on 14 March 2006, with the adoption of 50 amendments to the Commission's proposal, which was published on 8 March 2006.
I wish to congratulate Mrs Gröner and Mrs Sartori on their timely report on the Recommendation for a second reading on the Council common position for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Institute for Gender Equality, to which I lend my full support.
The proposed agency would be small, with a staff of 10 or so.
As usual, however, the Commission and the European Parliament are attempting, in their zeal for regulation, to control the Member States' rules in this area in detail.
in writing. (DE) I have voted in favour of the adoption of the European Driving Licence System since this overhaul represents significant progress as far as I am concerned.
The establishment of a database of traffic offenders who have had their driving licences taken away in their home countries is particularly important in this connection.
However, I sense that the 26 year period during which all driving licences which are valid today have to be withdrawn from service, is overly long.
If these proposals find their way into law they should end the practice of driving licence tourism, where an individual banned in one Member State obtains a licence in another Member State.
I know many motorcyclists are concerned about the minimum age of 24 years for access to more powerful machines.
I welcome this directive which will replace over 110 different driving licence models currently in circulation throughout the EU.
The net effect of this will be that Member States like Ireland can refuse to issue a driving licence to an applicant whose permit was restricted, suspended or withdrawn in another Member State.
in writing. - (FR) In 2032, our grandchildren will all have the same driving licence: one licence for all Europeans, in the form of a credit card, a 'made in the USA' driving licence.
There are 110 different types of driving licence in the European Union today.
Harmonising national laws means fighting against 'driving licence tourism', that is, against the opportunity for European citizens who have been stripped of their driving licences in their countries following a serious offence to obtain another licence elsewhere in the Union.
Whilst it is true that the borders of each Member State fall exclusively under the competence of national sovereignty, it is also true that these borders are at the same time the external borders of the EU.
in writing. - (FR) On reading the title of the report, I thought that the European Union was proposing financially to help the Member States repatriate to their countries of origin illegal immigrants that are subject to an expulsion measure, or even to help them along, when their legislation provides for aid to resettle legal immigrants in their own countries.
The assistance provided to them has contributed substantially towards increasing the safety of nuclear plants in these countries.
The Slovak Republic has also received extensive assistance towards increasing the safety of the Jaslovské Bohunice and Mochovce nuclear power plants, and therefore they now enjoy the same safety levels as similar nuclear plants in Western European countries.
I voted in favour of the report which deals with assistance and cooperation in the area of nuclear safety between the Community and third countries, mainly states in Eastern Europe and Central Asia.
The Chernobyl accident in 1986 highlighted the global importance of nuclear safety.
I therefore welcome Parliament's decision to keep up the pressure on these regimes by taking the decision to create a mechanism for monitoring cases in which the winners have been prevented from receiving their deserved prize or from returning to the European Parliament, as in the cases of Oswaldo Payá, of Aung San Suu Kyi, who is still under house arrest in Myanmar, and of the Women in White, who were winners in 2005 and who were prevented by Fidel Castro's regime in Cuba from receiving the prize.
in writing. - (FR) I would like to congratulate Mrs Morgan for the initiative she has taken in drawing up a report on the Green Paper presented by the Commission on a European strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy.
This report puts forward crystal-clear objectives: 20% of the energy produced in the EU to be from renewable energy sources by 2020 and 50% by 2040; and a 30% reduction in European carbon emissions by 2020 and a reduction of at least 60% by 2050.
The Union's energy markets are increasingly interlinked and interdependent, and it is right that an EU framework be created to ensure that our consumers benefit from our common market.
in writing. - (FR) I would like to congratulate my colleague Mrs Morgan on her own-initiative report on the European strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy.
in writing. (FR) Whatever hopes we place in biomass and biofuels, they cannot be more than a partial solution to our countries' problems of energy dependency and to the search for clean and renewable energy production.
