Strengthening the European Neighbourhood Policy - Situation in Georgia (debate) The next item is a joint discussion on: the report by Raimon Obiols i Germà and Charles Tannock, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on strengthening the European Neighbourhood Policy; and the Council and Commission statements on the situation in Georgia.
The report supports the Commission document of December 2006 on the assessment and future development of the European Neighbourhood Policy and, having regard to the consensus reached, we can currently say that Parliament and the Commission share the same vision, the idea that the European continent and the Mediterranean are interdependent realities which cannot be viewed in isolation, and that the neighbourhood policy offers new channels for relations and for cooperation with societies facing common challenges and problems, as well as major opportunities for joint progress.
I shall quickly go through five of them: First, the principle of a broad policy schema in a framework of differentiation, a principle of differentiation, so that the European Neighbourhood Policy is viewed not as a standardised, mechanical routine, but as the means by which the European Union can organise relations with its neighbours while being flexible enough to respond successfully to different situations.
Yesterday we heard the French President speak, and I think he introduced some very positive nuances in that he noted that his proposal for a Mediterranean Union excludes no one, first of all, secondly it must be added to the acquis of the Euro-Mediterranean policy and, thirdly, it must try to go beyond it.
But, of course, of utmost importance are the shared values and in particular reinforcing democracy, the rule of law and human rights as our main priority.
Certainly, matters in terms of visa facilitation, readmission and, post-Ukraine's WTO accession - which we hope will happen next year - a deep EU free trade agreement, these are all progressing well with a country such as Ukraine, and I hope these will be extended to Moldova and eventually to other South Caucasus countries in due course.
Nevertheless, these Eastern European ENP countries need to know for sure, by the EU Council and Commission, that membership is ultimately available to them and that the ENP is not just a delaying tactic to frustrate these countries' membership ambitions.
The report also recognises the suffering of the people of Belarus and the bravery of the country's democratic forces.
I am personally convinced that EURO-NEST would strengthen democratic institutions in Eastern ENP countries.
The EU has become far too dependent as well on Russian energy resources, so we all agree that we must develop alternative sources.
That is why our report, when it went through the Committee on Foreign Affairs, proposed the idea of bringing Kazakhstan potentially one day as a possibility into the ENP.
Ladies and gentlemen, the European Neighbourhood Policy, to which from now on I will refer simply as ENP, is an essential policy for the EU.
The Member States agree that the offer of intensified relations applies to all partner countries, while maintaining an overall balance between the East and the South.
The ENP's policy framework obviously needs to remain sufficiently flexible to take into account the needs of each partner and the extent to which they effectively and visibly make and are prepared to make progress on the reform track.
EU support should therefore be tailored even more to the needs of partners and their priorities as set out in the ENP action plans.
We must therefore be cautious and not amalgamate two things which are different.
Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union provides that any European State which respects the principles of the rule of law, freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms may apply to become a member of the Union.
I would now like to refer to the strengthening of the ENP.
The increase in funding for partners under the new European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument is already a sign of the Union's enhanced commitment.
This new mechanism will be fully compatible with existing financial instruments, particularly the Euro-Mediterranean investment and partnership facility.
The Commission is negotiating the necessary protocols on the general principles for participation in these new Community programmes with the first group of ENP partners.
Israel, Morocco and the Ukraine are likely to be the first countries to benefit from this measure.
As a clear and tangible sign of the Union's openness to its neighbours and in line with its common approach on visa facilitation, we concluded visa facilitation and readmission agreements with Ukraine and Moldova.
Finally, I would like to refer to the commitment we recently assumed in relation to the Black Sea and countries in that region.
The Black Sea Synergy initiative aims to strengthen cooperation among the countries of the region and deepen the EU's relations with it at all levels.
Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I regard the European Neighbourhood Policy, the intensification of which we are discussing today, as a key strategic policy, and I would like to record my sincere thanks to the two rapporteurs for their report, a truly important document which will also serve to fill our sails for the next leg of the ENP voyage.
We want to use this neighbourhood policy, of course, to project our stability and to encourage reforms.
The results of the major European Neighbourhood Policy Conference on 3 September also show that our partners and our Member States are now fully in agreement with this prioritisation.
The conference was a real success, because it brought all of our ENP partners and all the Member States together for the first time, along with representatives of the various authorities and of civil society.
A clear consensus emerged on the substantive priorities of the neighbourhood policy, from economic integration to greater mobility, and from energy policy to political cooperation.
One need only consider how much we have intensified our cooperation with Ukraine in the ENP framework since the Orange Revolution.
The fact that Ukraine has now held free and fair elections for the second time undoubtedly constitutes a success.
The neighbourhood policy, then, is working, but we must go further, of course, in our efforts to make it even better, even more effective and even more comprehensive.
For example, our eastern partners lacked a regional dimension, but now we have launched this Black Sea Synergy programme as a tailor-made process for the East.
It gives the East what the South has long possessed in the form of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership, and the first meeting in the Black Sea Synergy framework will take place in 2008.
This means that we must also ask ourselves whether we are prepared to do that.
This relates to the frozen conflicts we see in the partner countries on our eastern borders, conflicts that seriously impede our neighbours' progress towards reform and, in some cases, threaten our own security.
In the Mediterranean region, I shall naturally continue to press for progress in the Middle East, especially in the Quartet framework, and I very much hope that the meeting in Annapolis and the subsequent donors' conference in Paris will materialise so that further genuine progress can be made in the Middle East.
We are also prepared to help the parties to the conflict in the Western Sahara in their quest for a long-term solution.
As I have said, however, we can make a good deal of progress on the basis of this differentiated approach.
I merely want to add that we are very concerned about the latest developments in Georgia.
Draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development. - Mr President, the Committee on Regional Development views a strengthened European Neighbourhood Policy as a key tool first and foremost to bring our neighbours closer to the European system of values.
Therefore, the conditionality principle in the EU approach should provide workable mechanisms to encourage necessarily economic and democratic changes in our partner countries, in accordance with their own willingness and progress.
The Committee on Regional Development stresses the crucial importance of cross-border and interregional cooperation programmes in implementing the ENP.
We also call on the Commission to develop guidelines for local and regional authorities on their specific role in implementing the ENP action plans to develop the ENP further.
In today's world, each of these phenomena has a global impact and these challenges are our challenges.
We shall therefore give Mr Lobo Antunes the opportunity to deal with the latter topic now, with the change of speaker.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) I really did not understand why this debate should cover both neighbourhood policy and Georgia.
From our point of view the current situation remains a cause for concern, but we very much welcome the Georgian Parliament's announcement that the state of emergency will be lifted on 16 November next, the day after tomorrow.
This is an important step towards restoring democratic normality in Georgia, since presidential elections have been announced for the near future and all the democratic conditions necessary for those elections to take place must naturally be guaranteed.
I assume that the Georgian people and the Georgian authorities are aware of that.
This is the idea of the EURO-NEST Parliamentary Assembly.
This is to supplement the policy of neighbourliness pursued by the executive bodies of the EU.
It is not just a matter of strengthening contacts between the European Parliament and the national parliaments of Ukraine, Moldova, Azerbaijan, Armenia and Georgia, as well as with representatives of democratic forces in Belarus.
For us, the most important issue is that our neighbours should have dialogue and cooperation among themselves, that they should get to know each other better, develop trust in each other and benefit from the best examples of democracy, free speech and respect for human rights.
The compromise formula, replacing amendment number 11 and emphasising the need for better intergovernmental cooperation, will make it possible to delineate this form of cooperation in the proper way.
I am convinced that EURO-NEST will provide an additional impetus to strengthening partnership with our eastern neighbours and will complement relations with regard to our southern neighbours as part of the Barcelona process.
The situation in the countries to which the report relates (I am speaking mostly about the eastern area) is a very dynamic one, bringing, as can be expected, many new experiences.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament supports the development of a European Neighbourhood Policy, a strengthened European Neighbourhood Policy, provided that it is prudent and effective.
During work on this report we avoided many unnecessary disputes.
It cannot be the same towards all countries, because these countries have different degrees of democracy and are interested in implementing this policy in different ways.
Cooperation is needed in all directions.
As all the EU Member States are involved as well as 16 partner countries, it is also understandable that people should have strong misgivings in the development of this policy as to how the different partner countries can be included in the collaboration.
The ENP policy's strength, however, lies in the fact that it provides the EU with more resources to aid the partner countries than would be the case if each country were approached separately and from totally different angles.
This country should have a special status within the group of countries included in the ENP and should be given priority treatment, first and foremost because of its role in Europe's cultural heritage and its historical ties with neighbouring countries.
Granting Ukraine privileged status is also particularly important because this country has a pivotal role to play in ensuring energy stability and security for the whole European Union.
The issue of Ukraine and opening the way for its full membership of the EU should therefore be considered on an individual basis, taking into consideration that it is Ukraine that is the EU's principal partner in the east European neighbourhood.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, I should like to say, firstly, that I am sorry this is a joint debate because the crisis in Georgia ought to have been the subject of a debate in its own right.
Before talking about Georgia, however, I should like to welcome the latest arrival among the European Neighbourhood Policy countries, namely Mauritania - a country which I recently visited as head of our election observation mission there.
What I can tell you, colleagues, is that, four years on from the non-violent Rose Revolution, the communities in Georgia are truly shocked by the violence of which we saw something on our television screens: the violence directed against Georgia's people and the violence used to close down Imedi TV.
It is now time - and I am addressing the Council here, for I believe it has been somewhat harsh with the Georgian authorities - for us, with our European Neighbourhood Policy, to demonstrate that we can be useful.
We therefore believe that from that point of view we would have liked the European Union to take a much more rigorous position when establishing the neighbourhood policy.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, this report clearly demonstrates how the Europhile political elite in this place are completely out of touch with reality and the wishes of their constituents.
Ukraine has a population of 46 million and, as EU citizens, they would all have the right to enter Britain.
That is why I will be re-elected in London in 2009, and Mr Tannock may not be.
Mr President, recital C of the report says that the European Neighbourhood Policy 'should remain distinct from the process of enlargement, whereas participation in the ENP does not preclude, for the eastern neighbours which are clearly identifiable as European countries, any perspective of EU membership in the long term'.
The neighbourhood policy also gives us a solid instrument for active involvement in matters relating to the conflict in the Middle East, as Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner indicated.
That is an important exercise, which we must repeat in the coming year.
Both are equally important, but the method need not always be the same, because the eastern neighbourhood policy also has this dimension of the European perspective, which means that there can be different starting points and, to a certain extent, different prospects too.
Europe's influence is not the same in all these countries, and Europe is not equally attractive to all of them.
Lastly, stronger parliamentary cooperation with the ENP countries to the east is only useful if it is accompanied by multilateral cooperation by the region's governments.
In our view there could only be a parliament of this kind if the Council and Commission also created an intergovernmental counterpart. (FR) Mr President, as rapporteur on the South Caucasus, I should like to use the opportunity of this report by Mr Tannock and Mr Obiols i Germà - whom I congratulate, by the way, on their work - to tell you my impressions of the situation in Georgia, based on a visit I made there on 5 November, at the height of the demonstrations.
The events of 7 November - the declaration of the state of emergency, the violent police crackdown on demonstrators and the closure of the television station - underscored the extremely worrying nature of the situation.
We must hope that the presidential election scheduled for 5 January will allow democratic debate to return to the fore.
The path of democratisation and reform often means internal political crises, especially in this situation, where they are provided by a large neighbouring state.
There has been much talk of human rights, but it is all about asserting the interests of the EU.
These are things that we do not support, and so, as my colleague Willy Meyer-Pleite has said, our group will not be voting for the report. (NL) Mr President, the Commission's commitment to the state of Israel under the European Neighbourhood Policy is a matter close to my heart.
This idea must be a basic premise for the European Neighbourhood Policy, a policy which should encourage and help our neighbours to undertake the reforms necessary to make the values I referred to above effective.
The issue of political, economic and social reforms is, for me, an essential part of the report which we will approve tomorrow.
A second reason why the neighbourhood policy needs to be strengthened is undoubtedly this whole discussion regarding further enlargement.
This is not the time to anticipate subsequent rounds of enlargement, but rather to strengthen relations with our neighbours, and some of those neighbouring countries, in so far as they are situated in Europe, will have the chance to join the European Union at a later date, though some will not.
I believe that such abstruse ideas, if you will pardon the expression, as a Mediterranean Union that would draw a line right across the European Union, a Mediterranean Union in which, as President Sarkozy suggested yesterday to the Conference of Presidents, the other Member States of the EU could have observer status, should and must be prevented, to which end we must have a common neighbourhood policy and work together to strengthen relations.
It is legitimate to envisage an EU-Black Sea community and an EU-Mediterranean community, but it will always be the task of the European Union as a whole to maintain and strengthen relations with these neighbours, a task which also involves supporting the efforts of the Commission. (HU) Mr President, the Union's objective is to create an area of prosperity, stability and security with its neighbours.
Political and budgetary balance needs to be created as soon as possible between the eastern and southern dimensions of the neighbourhood policy.
The European Neighbourhood Policy must be a tool to exert influence on the authorities of those countries where political freedom and democracy are no more than a show, where journalists from independent media lose their lives in unexplained circumstances, and where opposition is systematically and often brutally removed from public life.
The last three years have proved that the European Neighbourhood Policy is a very important instrument for ever closer cooperation with the states concerned and for increasing the stability and security of our Community.
The neighbourhood policy also puts us under an obligation, mainly if the fragile system constructed up to now in one of the countries concerned is at risk.
I would like to draw your attention to the situation in Georgia, where the democracy, constitutionality and vigorous economic development that have been built jointly are threatened.
Georgia, led by Saakashvili, is a committed partner to the EU, and despite numerous problems it is showing significant progress in the areas of reform and economic growth.
The EU, that is, the Commission, the Council and Parliament, in cooperation with the OSCE, have taken an interest in resolving this tension using peaceful means.
In any event, dialogue with the divided opposition, which cannot be excluded from this process, is inevitable.
What has happened has happened, but it is now our responsibility to use the neighbourhood policy to help ensure that the elections in January are free and fair.
We, the European Parliament, must be heavily involved and must participate in overseeing the elections with the OSCE through the observers we must send, because the area concerned is the one where most progress towards democracy is at stake in one of the most conflict-torn areas in our neighbourhood. (FI) Mr President, I too want to thank the authors of this report for the excellent job they have done.
I would like to point out how important the role is of local and regional authorities and civil society in the implementation of the European Neighbourhood Policy.
I would like to draw your attention to two countries, Ukraine and Belarus, which may be included in the ENP.
Ukraine must be a priority for us, and current negotiations with that country should lead to the conclusion of an association agreement and then make it possible for that country to become a member of the EU.
We should bear in mind that this country is still under the dictatorship of Lukashenko, breaching human rights and the rights of ethnic minorities.
Europe is in a very peaceful process.
The Council and Commission received a non-paper reflecting on the simple fact that Israel wishes to enhance our bilateral relations, to have the EU and Israel meeting annually, to have regular high-level cooperation.
Recent developments are very unfortunate and regrettable for all those who are in favour of the democratic development of Georgia.
The reports of organisations such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch and the Georgian Ombudsman's report are very disturbing.
The fact that President Saakashvili has already called presidential elections on 5 January 2008 is a positive step that has already helped to ease the tensions in the country.
But the Government has to hold a democratic and free election in accordance with international standards in order to show to the world that the country is moving on.
Today, in the European Parliament, we are sending a clear and positive signal to our eastern partners, and now we await their reaction, not only in political declarations, but also, most importantly, in practical economic and social measures.
I am convinced that a democratic and wealthy Ukraine, Moldova and - let's hope - one day also Belarus would be good not just for the inhabitants of those countries, but also for the whole of the European Union. (PL) Mr President, the neighbourhood policy is one of the mechanisms aimed at supporting the creation of an area around the EU where cooperation without conflict is possible, as well as avoiding the formation of a cultural and economic divide at the EU borders.
I agree with the concerns expressed by the authors of the report that it would be a mistake to include the countries around the Mediterranean in this same policy.
The second point I would like to emphasise concerns relations among EU neighbour states.
EURO-NEST would provide new momentum for more efficient implementation of the European Neighbourhood Policy while substantially increasing the parliamentary dimension of this policy, within which the European Parliament would be able to fulfil its honourable mission. (PT) The European Union's role in the world is now absolutely vital if we are to achieve certain balances which are essential to the pursuit of global peace and justice.
The logic of associating with some countries through bilateral agreements in particular must therefore not undermine the development of a multilateral approach that a global vision requires of us.
The undeniable influence of universal human rights and the guarantee of fundamental freedoms in the EU's relations with the world must underpin any dialogue with any partner in the world, especially in connection with the Mediterranean region.
I therefore congratulate the rapporteurs for the importance they attach to this in their report on the European Neighbourhood Policy.
It is not our role to foster the slow-down our partners take refuge in, or to foster divisions.
Regarding the situation in Georgia, President Saakaşvili's decisions to organize early presidential elections, a referendum for establishing parliamentary elections and to lift the state of emergency are salutary.
All these actions will contribute to the restoration of a democratic climate favourable to resuming debates and negotiations for the viable settlement of the sensitive situation in Georgia.
The party now governing is the one that, beginning with 2003, has initiated and supported a coherent system of reforms in key fields that, in their turn, have generated visible economic development, propelling Georgia towards a functional market economy and an authentic democracy.
Under the same government, the creation of mechanisms for more efficiently actually implementing the action plan with the European Union has been supported and the evolution towards a European direction has been intensified.
At the same time, Georgia has become a strategic partner in the neighbourhood policy, which is indispensable for solving the frozen conflicts in the region, a good mediator, an important partner within regional cooperation and a strategic ally in energy cooperation projects and transport.
The claims and attitude of the opposition should be taken into consideration, but evaluated in the context of the entire political and economic situation, both internally and in the region.
We do not want to see rivalry developing between eastern European countries and our southern neighbours.
I therefore need to highlight two points.
In conclusion, I should like to see these aspects addressed in the report because they are necessary to the definition of a clear Mediterranean policy based on a strategic long-term vision of development and stabilisation in this region. - (EL) Mr President, let me congratulate the rapporteurs on their thorough examination of the topic.
However, I must point out that if one of our basic aims is to create an area of peace, we must pay attention to the political future of the countries in question.
I do not want to repeat here, yet again, the proposal I made last year in the previous debate on the report.
I suggested the creation of a commonwealth among these countries in order to strengthen relations in the political neighbourhood.
For this reason, the European political neighbourhood must remain unified, geographically cohesive and balanced between its eastern and southern parts.
The Georgian Government has to fully restore the normal democratic process in the country and strictly abide by the principles of the rule of law in all its actions.
What is needed in this situation is resuming the political dialogue and finding a compromise in the interests of the people and democracy in the country.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, because of the time I will be very brief, though that is in my favour since I will be present at question time.
This has been a long and intense debate, which I think has covered every essential aspect of the neighbourhood policy.
I also believe that broad consensus has been reached on fundamental issues such as the need for the neighbourhood policy to be a comprehensive and inclusive policy geared towards the North but also towards the East and the South.
We must of course take our partners' specific characteristics and needs into account, just as we must also use the necessary instruments in line with those needs and specific characteristics.
The European Neighbourhood Policy has a single objective which is valid for all the partners, which is to establish a partnership leading them towards economic and social progress and towards strengthening the rule of law and their democracies.
As I have said, the single and most important objective is obviously for these partners to be able to experience a development which is also in the European Union's interests.
I will just say that I think it was a very fruitful debate and I wish again to thank the two rapporteurs.
Firstly, it is true that Mauritania is now a partner country in the Euromed process, but it is not a Neighbourhood Policy country.
But, of course, it takes time and we are working particularly with those countries on the question of the judiciary and the justice system, which is, of course, a basis for making differences on the ground.
And that is highly important: in Israel and Palestine, when we speak about the Maghreb and when we speak about the countries of Eastern Europe.
The ideas on the table are very ambitious, particularly from the Israeli side.
A last word on Georgia: many colleagues who have spoken on Georgia, including my friend Lydie Polfer, have said that the situation is very complex.
We all know that, on the one hand, there are great tensions between the opposition and the government, but, on the other hand, there might be also other tendencies there.
But, of course, we will try to do everything to support Georgia.
I would like to remind you that the Raimon Obiols i Germà and Charles Tannock report will be put to the vote tomorrow morning, and that the texts submitted to close the debate on the Council and Commission statements will be put to the vote in Brussels on 29 November 2007.
in writing. - (PT) I congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work.
For that very reason it is important to approve amendments 1 and 2, which I thank Mr Tannock for presenting.
We must also therefore reiterate our request to the Commission to propose and to develop specific policies to expand the European Neighbourhood Policy as far as possible to our island neighbours in the Atlantic, close to the European continent, insofar as they highlight not only our geographic proximity but also our cultural and historic affinity and the common interest of mutual security.
Along the same lines, I would also like to take this opportunity to applaud the recent communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on the future of relations between the EU and the Republic of Cape Verde.
