The EU's Aid for trade (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Martin, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the motion for a European Parliament resolution on the EU's Aid for Trade.
Finally, I should like to thank Pelayo Castro Zuzuarregui, the Parliament official I worked with on this report.
The WTO ministerial meeting in Hong Kong in December 2005 set out an ambitious work programme for Aid for Trade and called for more assistance to help developing countries into the global economy.
Within developing countries we must also ensure that the private sector and civil society are engaged with the process.
Regarding the integrated framework, I am glad to confirm what I announced in Hong Kong.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, for a long time, we supported developing countries in all kinds of areas, except for that of trade.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the way he has dealt with this report.
The G8 summit in Gleneagles where the Commission and EU governments both pledged EUR 1 billion in aid to the world's poorest people was preceded by a hugely popular campaign.
Whilst Aid for Trade is a long-term driver of development, meeting short-term targets, such as the Millennium Development Goals, must remain central to the EU's international development policy.
There too we must do better: some USD 50 billion more a year rather than the current commitment over a five-year period.
We have to clarify the Aid for Trade concept itself by taking on board the conclusions of the WTO Aid for Trade Task Force on fundable projects and by integrating development policies and actual trade policies as much as possible, as envisaged in the integrated framework, not least with a view to reducing poverty. (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, much has been said within the European Union about a balanced multilateral system of trade and about enabling developing countries to become involved in trade and benefit as a result.
For this reason, aid for trade is of decisive importance in encouraging these countries to respond to new obligations and to apply multilateral trade rules, to mitigate the cost of their adapting to reforms and to integrate trade into their development policies more effectively.
Aid for trade thus helps to make international trade an instrument for reducing poverty through economic development.
Finally, if it is to be effective, aid for trade must meet several urgent needs: it must be accompanied by practical commitments, not least those promoting technical assistance; its implementation must be controlled and monitored and it must strengthen local ownership and results-focused management.
Mr President, I would like to welcome and commend all those who have spoken on this subject this morning.
