New Flame shipwreck and its consequences in Algeciras Bay (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the New Flame shipwreck and the pollution in Algeciras Bay.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, I am pleased to be here today to inform you of the Commission statement in connection with the resolution that you are going to adopt on the New Flame shipwreck and its consequences in Algeciras Bay.
The New Flame shipwreck has had serious consequences, but it has not caused a disaster of such magnitude.
The Commission has very closely monitored this accident, which occurred in August 2007.
The Commission's services, in particular the Monitoring and Information Centre of the Environment Directorate-General, responsible for civil protection, have been in contact with the Spanish authorities, the ASMAR Sociedad Estatal de Salvamento y Seguridad Maritima and the British authorities.
It is thanks to the support of the European Parliament that EUR 154 million have been allocated to combat pollution for the period 2007-2013.
The arrival of the specialist barge Big Foot 1 in late March suggests that further attempts are being planned.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, it is eight months since the shipwreck of the New Flame and there is still a risk of further oil spills, especially oil emanating from the cargo contained in the wreck.
The spillage from the New Flame has only amounted to 24 tonnes to date, compared with more than 70 000 tonnes from the Prestige.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the oral question that underlies this debate smacks to me of atavistic resentment of a constitutional nature.
There are indeed legitimate concerns over maritime safety and the danger of pollution, not just at sea, but also of the air and of groundwater, in the busy, heavily-populated industrial area in which Gibraltar and its Spanish hinterland are found.
We are not just talking about the New Flame, we also had the Sierra Nava and the Samotraki, and these are incidents which obviously threaten maritime safety, the safety of persons and the natural environment.
The Commission replied saying that it was carrying 700 tonnes of IFO-380 fuel but we still do not know what type of scrap metal.
I call on the Commission to tell us once and for all what type of scrap metal the vessel was carrying. (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in this debate because the situation of the New Flame, shipwrecked in Algeciras Bay and Gibraltar in August 2007, has yet to be resolved.
As is well known, there were several spillages of fuel and oil from the vessel between August 2007 and February 2008.
Therefore, I believe that Spain's recourse to the Forum of Dialogue on Gibraltar as a measure which can genuinely enable us to manage such situations and prevent further undesirable incidents should conclude this matter for us all.
The wreck is now at the bottom of the sea along with 42 500 tonnes of scrap whose nature and potential for pollution is unknown.
Commissioner, what Andalucía demands is that legitimate bunkering and maritime activities in the Bay of Alegeciras, which generate wealth and employment for the area, should go hand in hand with strict respect for environmental protection. (ES) Mr President, this accident is certainly not comparable to other incidents involving oil tankers, or even container vessels such as the Napoli, on which the IMB still has to take a decision.
Mr Watson also asked me a few questions.
I should like to say to him that the wreck of the New Flame is, indeed, located in the territorial waters of Gibraltar.
However, the 2005 directive does not lay down the legislative framework for imposing criminal penalties on persons responsible for maritime pollution.
Mr Hammerstein, the open-sea transfer of oil is a very common practice in maritime transport.
Mr de Grandes Pascual, in 2005, as part of the third package of legislative measures on maritime safety, the Commission tabled a proposal for a directive laying down a minimum set of common rules on civil liability and insurance.
I should like to say that, in order to prevent shipwrecks such as that of the New Flame, it is imperative that we have legislation that is, as we have proposed in the Third Maritime Package, comprehensive and capable of effectively eliminating, at any stage, the risk of accidents at sea and pollution.
The Commissioner referred to the waters of Gibraltar.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, I did not wish to take a position on this.
This is in the territorial waters of Gibraltar, and it should go on the record that neither the incident nor the sinking of the New Flame was in the Bay of Gibraltar or Algeciras, however you call it.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 24 April 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (NL) The matter of the New Flame shipwreck off Gibraltar seems to be centred primarily on the dispute between the United Kingdom and Spain over Gibraltar.
