One-minute speeches on matters of political importance The next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. (EL) Mr President, the adverse impact of the global financial crisis can now be seen in international trade.
One need only note that the rate of growth in global trade fell from 8.5% in 2006 to 5.5% in 2007 and was in the order of just 4% in 2008.
In fact, the citizens' vote must not be invalidated by the dictatorship of the majority. (PL) Mr President, last week an informal delegation of MEPs visited Palestine and Israel.
According to the Agency's estimates, Tehran has increased the number of uranium-enriching centrifuges by 34 times in less than three years.
We shall send a message to all our fellow Members to explain in detail the nature of these infringements and to ask for your support and assistance. (PL) Madam President, once again in this Chamber I am forced to speak up for the rights of national minorities in Lithuania, which are being ruthlessly broken and violated by the Lithuanian authorities and judicial system.
The local government in Vilnius has implemented this decision - the Polish street names in the region where most residents are from the Polish minority have been removed.
The workers are obviously determined to defend their rights and have adopted as their standard the words of the 22-year-old worker Nikos Nikopoulos in his open letter to the public prosecutor to the Supreme Court of Appeal in Greece, in which he says, among other things: 'There are certain things in this life for me which cannot be bought or sold.
However, President El Béchir has just increased the evidence against him by taking a decision which is ill-conceived on two counts: first, because it adds to the grievances already lodged against him and, secondly, because this on its own could be brought before the International Criminal Court as the consequences for Darfur are extraordinarily serious on a humanitarian level.
Certainly, it is legitimate to criticise the policies of the state of Israel, but this criticism must not turn into hatred towards Jews in general, in other words into anti-Semitism.
At the same time, I am surprised and saddened by the fact that the date of the debate has been set for 12 March.
I would like to remind those who have forgotten that the Tibetan uprising began on 10 March.
Perhaps 10 March marks an anniversary, related to this subject, which I do not know about.
I would like to highlight the important role that the state Babeş-Bolyai University in Cluj-Napoca plays in the provision of Hungarian-medium education.
The multi-cultural organisational system set up through Babeş-Bolyai University's Charter in 1995 ensures complete, independent instruction in Romanian, Hungarian and German, as well as Jewish studies, at every level of academic qualification.
The price of a litre of milk has fallen to between 22 and 24 cent, and there has been a sudden drop in worldwide demand for dairy products, particularly in Asia and in China as a result of the melamine scandal.
There has also been a 3% increase in production in the United States alone, as well as an increase in production in Brazil.
In 2007 the European Parliament adopted the report on the role of sport in education.
This is precisely why I am calling on the European Commission to monitor more closely the transposition into national legislation of and compliance with the compulsory requirement for a minimum of three hours of physical education a week in schools, as well as the increase in the number of sports halls and improvement in their basic equipment. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the book by Albert Camus, the plague is announced futilely by a rat who comes and dies at our feet.
We are fighting, we are not troubled. - (SK) In my speech I would like to focus the attention of the European Parliament on 15 March, which has been declared International Consumer Rights Day on the initiative of the organisation Consumers International.
Over the last two weeks we have been hearing reports from the Republic of Macedonia where certain church authorities expressed a desire to exhume the bodies of Bulgarian soldiers who died on that country's territory in all wars throughout the 20th century.
