The response of the Chinese authorities to peaceful protests in Tibet last year and Xinjiang this year was completely out of proportion, to say the least.
Instead of this, we had a violent and brutal reaction from the Chinese authorities against the protesters and hundreds of people killed.
In 2008 alone, at least 1 718 people were executed.
This means that Chinese people can be executed for committing more than 68 crimes.
That is why we are calling in this resolution for China to suspend its planned executions and introduce a moratorium on the death penalty immediately. (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my position regarding this motion for a resolution is similar to the ideas of a man who belongs to those minorities that are discriminated against, a man who has won the Nobel Peace Prize and who presides over the world's leading power: Barack Obama.
Of course, I, like all members of my group, call for fair trials for all those detained. (PL) Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) endorses the draft resolution.
This is so, irrespective of whether we are talking about a world power, or about small countries such as Laos and Vietnam.
For this reason, I cannot understand why my fellow Members do not want paragraph 9 to be included in the resolution, because this would encourage peaceful dialogue rather than the prevailing oppression.
In order to be recognised as a player on the world stage as well, China must ensure that human rights are respected.
This must not only be included in the constitution, it must also be put into practice.
This is why we must make our opinions quite clear in this regard. (DE) Mr President, I take it for granted that the European Parliament will speak out when it is possible to save people from execution and, therefore, I support the call for a moratorium on the death penalty.
My group had proposed that we discuss the imminent executions of the Uighurs in China and the participants in the protest demonstrations against the fraudulent elections in Iran who had been condemned to death, because these are two countries where executions are likely to take place very soon and, therefore, an urgent debate is needed.
It is good that Parliament introduced a moratorium on the death penalty in 2007 and we must do everything we can to keep this subject in the forefront of people's minds while the death penalty is still in place. (PL) Mr President, as a Pole, I always feel my heart beat faster when there is talk of human rights in China.
On 4 June 1989, Poles regained their liberty by voting in the first free election, in which we returned a non-communist Prime Minister.
The same day, 4 June 1989, the Chinese regime crushed protesting students under the caterpillar tracks of its tanks in Tiananmen Square.
A key goal of the 12th EU-China Summit, to be held on 30 November in Nanjing, will precisely be to work together to ensure success for the Copenhagen climate summit and to address EU-China relations, including human rights, the financial and economic crisis and other international issues.
Human rights issues, including the death penalty and respect for the fundamental rights of ethnic minorities, are systematically raised during our regular political contacts and, in particular, during our human rights dialogue with the Chinese authorities.
This was the case during the recent 28th round on 20 November in Beijing, where we had a frank discussion on these issues.
We have always supported the dialogue between the Chinese authorities and the representatives of the Dalai Lama.
The EU has raised these concerns repeatedly with the Chinese authorities and reiterates its concerns in the two declarations published on 29 October and on 13 November, as it always does in such situations.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I understand the displeasure felt by some Members here that our resolution on China was actually scheduled for a date after the visit by the Chinese delegation and hence might, by chance, give an impression of an unsuccessful journey, although the atmosphere was, in fact, excellent.
The government's achievements in this area have been significant: the country has approved a 5% quota of public offices reserved for minorities, religious festivals for minorities have been made official, minorities are to have their own special day of celebration on 11 August, and the Senate is planning the same 5% quota for that institution.
