I would ask you to have this matter investigated, and also to consider whether this allowance can be withheld, as it has led to the taxpayer yet again having to cough up between EUR&#160;50&#160;000 and EUR&#160;100&#160;000. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Martin.
It is good to see familiar faces and new faces alike.) Mr President, I see that some Members are having difficulty receiving their Irish language interpretation.
I would also like, President Borrell, to congratulate you on your election to the post of President of the European Parliament and to wish you well.
In Ireland, and particularly as outgoing presidency, we are very conscious of the crucial and constructive role played by the Parliament in the work of the European Union.
During our presidency we enjoyed an immensely cooperative and mutually supportive relationship with the European Parliament, which was an essential element in the realisation of many of our presidency goals.
Without it, Europe could not have created a vibrant single market and a strong and stable single currency.
And, of course, without it we would not have been in a position to embrace and support the Europeans who have suffered half a century of totalitarian oppression.
The second principle that has underpinned our approach to Europe has been the principle of fairness.
The European Union has created a zone where the concerns of all can be respected, the identities of all can be strengthened and the fundamental interests and rights of all can be protected.
I am also delighted that it was possible to reach agreement on other important appointments.
Javier Solana, who has been outstanding in his present functions, will continue in the post of Secretary-General of the Council, and Pierre de Boissieu will continue as Deputy Secretary-General.
The new Constitution is a tribute to the commitment and political will of all of the participants in the European Convention and the Intergovernmental Conference.
Throughout the process, in the European Convention and the IGC, Parliament has shown a deep sense of commitment to the European Union and to the citizens whose interests it directly represents.
The Convention outcome in particular - the great bulk of which was unaltered in the Intergovernmental Conference - reflected much that was brought to the table by the representatives of this Parliament.
I want to acknowledge especially the hard work that was done to find solutions to issues of particular concern to Parliament, and which was essential to finding an overall agreement.
A final deal would not have been possible without the assistance and commitment of Parliament.
They gave enormous help, assistance and commitment to me and Mr Roche, my Minister for Europe, who is with me today.
We have enhanced the democratic legitimacy of the European Union by extending the powers of the European Parliament.
We have also strengthened the role of national parliaments and opened the Council of Ministers to more public scrutiny.
We have clarified the division of powers between the Union and the Member States.
The principles of subsidiarity and proportionality have also been strengthened.
We have agreed an institutional framework that fully respects the rights of all Member States in all of the Union's institutions.
Each Member State will nominate a member of the Commission until 2014.
We have thus provided the basis for an effective Commission into the future which, I know you agree, is of crucial importance for the Union.
The principle of double majority voting, enshrining the dual nature of the Union as a Union of States and citizens, will be implemented in a way that respects the concerns of all IGC participants and enhances the efficiency of decision-making.
The new team presidency arrangements bringing three Member States together to implement an agreed programme will help the Council to become more effective and efficient.
The new permanent President of the European Council, Foreign Minister and External Action Service will enhance coordination and allow the Union to play a more effective role in the wider world.
Irrespective of the choices made by Member States, it is incumbent on us all to explain what is in the Constitution, and why it will be so beneficial for the Union, the Member States and especially our citizens.
The questions posed at the European Council in Laeken in December 2001 - how to make the Union more effective and efficient; how to prepare it to play a more effective role in the wider world, and how to bring the Union closer to its citizens - have been well answered.
The Union has undergone a lengthy and exhaustive process of Treaty change in recent years.
It is now time for us to have the confidence to see the new Constitution as the Union's bedrock in the same way that the Treaty of Rome has served us so well over the course of more than half a century.
The European Council noted with great satisfaction that Bulgaria had provisionally closed negotiations in all outstanding chapters.
In addition, Romania made significant progress, provisionally closing negotiations in three chapters of the .
The June European Council welcomed the significant progress which Turkey has continued to make in the reform process, and the sustained efforts of the Turkish Government to meet the Copenhagen political criteria.
The Union has reaffirmed its commitment that, if the December European Council decision on the fulfilment of the political criteria is positive, accession negotiations with Turkey will be opened without delay.
Also in June the European Council decided that Croatia is a candidate for membership and that negotiations should begin early in 2005.
Our presidency had responsibility for managing the initial phase of negotiations on the future Financial Perspectives which will determine funding for the Union from 2007 to 2013.
Our aim was to examine the Commission's ideas in detail and to offer feedback to the Commission in preparing its legislative proposals.
We also reached political agreement on the admission of third country nationals for studies and related purposes which recognises the positive contribution that legal migration makes to the Union.
In June the European Council agreed that the time had come to launch the next phase of the process and the Commission will now prepare proposals for consideration in December.
In the related area of terrorism, and in the aftermath of the appalling terrorist attacks in Madrid, the March European Council adopted the Declaration on Combating Terrorism.
The next steps are now mapped out in the revised plan of action, which was also adopted in June.
I believe that our efforts in this area were very successful.
We worked to strengthen and develop key partnerships, including the transatlantic relationship, on the basis of our shared interests and values.
We have circulated a report on Ireland's presidency of the European Union to each Member of Parliament which sets out the key developments in the external agenda for our six-month term, as well as developments in relation to the Union's internal agenda.
At the beginning of the presidency, when I addressed this House, I said that our overall objective was to secure outcomes that would have a positive impact on the lives of Europe's people.
I strongly believe that, with the successful enlargement of the Union, the agreement on the European Constitution, the good progress made over the last six months on the Lisbon Agenda and Justice and Home Affairs, as well as in our relationships with key partners, the Union has made a great step forward.
Thus, for the last 18 months I have been dealing with the leaders of the groups in Parliament.
We do not have 800 officials to bring to European Council meetings, nor three planes.
We have Ambassador Anderson and her people, who worked very hard in Brussels for us, and our people who worked here in Parliament.
Lastly, as I said at the outset to you, President Borrell, you have a difficult job - a very demanding task - both within Parliament and internationally.
I congratulate the Irish Presidency, and Bertie Ahern in particular, together with his colleagues, on their diplomatic skills, political sense and great commitment to the European cause.
First, the Intergovernmental Conference closed during the last term with agreement on the European Constitution.
As everyone knows, the last stretch on the road to a constitution is always the hardest, and the Irish Presidency directed the Conference with respect for everyone’s positions and attention to every detail.
We must not underestimate the work of the , who made a great personal effort to overcome the obstacles on the most sensitive issues.
Now, however, it seems obvious to us that not only does it exist but it is also needed, and the reason is simple: the Constitution enables the Union to operate more efficiently in the interests of our citizens.
The Constitution strengthens democracy, transparency and the sense of responsibility.
It contains our values and our principles, and it provides a solid legal basis for our policies.
The Commission, as you well know, would have preferred stronger powers for the Union in certain areas, particularly economic governance.
In this respect, I welcome the recent European Court of Justice decision clarifying certain rules in the Treaty and the Stability and Growth Pact.
Even so, the Constitution is clearly a great step forwards along the road to European integration, and in the near future we must all work together and focus on the ratification process.
We must launch a thorough debate on the Constitution and what it means for the future of Europe.
We must ensure that the referendums or parliamentary votes are not just a reflection of the political situation in each Member State but provide an informed and considered response to the real issues at European level.
My fear, in effect, is that national questions will overshadow the real issues in the European debate and that short-term vested interests will end up jeopardising the step forwards that the Constitution will enable us to take.
That means that first of all we have to raise the right questions in the national debates in each country.
In particular I want to reply to a criticism that has been circulating for some time, according to which the Constitution is a step backwards in the European social dimension.
The Constitution retains the Union’s common policies substantially unchanged, but creates a frame of reference within which the institutions can act for the common interest with greater focus.
This applies both to measures involving the internal market and to social policy.
Full employment and social progress have become the Union’s goals, while gender equality and minority rights are recognised as common values of the Member States.
Overall, therefore, the Constitution is more ambitious, more coherent and more comprehensive than the current Treaties even in the social sphere.
These are essentially political rather than technical points, and we must continue our political work in order to make progress in this direction.
Voting for the Constitution also means voting for this diverse European social framework.
The Constitution is certainly an achievement of historic dimensions, but it is not the only decision taken by the last European Council.
Now that the Council believes that Croatia meets the Copenhagen criteria, negotiations can begin early in 2005.
The Macedonian Government has also now submitted its own application to join and is working hard for its request to be accepted.
In the area of justice and home affairs, the action plan for the fight against terrorism has seen plenty of progress but also some uncertainties.
We are still moving forwards on the Tampere programme, which now, however, must enter a new phase of implementation.
This is a complicated item on which the steps taken and the progress made have been insufficient and, above all, do not meet the expectations we had in Lisbon when we approved this chapter.
I also congratulate it on the decision to appoint Javier Solana as the Union’s Foreign Minister once the Constitution has come into force.
To José Manuel Durão Barroso and Javier Solana I offer my most sincere felicitations, and to Bertie Ahern and his colleagues my very warmest thanks. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Taoiseach and outgoing President of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by very warmly thanking the Irish presidency on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
The Irish Presidency has been a great success, and I would like to thank you personally, the Taoiseach of Ireland, the outgoing President of the European Council, and also your Minister for Europe, Dick Roche, most warmly and on behalf of our group as a whole.
It was a happy time for us, and the former President of the European Parliament, Pat Cox, is now sitting over there; that is something else we have to get used to.
My dear Pat, I hope we will have another opportunity to work closely together, and the fact that you are in the plenary today shows that the passion for Europe will still be with you.
I would like to mention another Irishman, one whom perhaps not everyone will know, particularly not the new Members, but you know him – our friend and former colleague Joe McCartin, who was a Member of this Parliament from 1979 until the last European elections, and was the only member of our group to be honoured by the award of the Robert Schuman Medal.
As the outgoing President of the European Council, you spoke in terms of a great exercise in democracy.
As you said, Europe must function, but the most important thing is – and we are grateful to you for saying so – that we in Europe have overcome totalitarianism and the dictatorships, and that it is democracy that holds us together.
You spoke about the Intergovernmental Conference.
Even more than we have done already, we should be telling the public that it not only strengthens the European Parliament, but the national parliaments as well, and thus also parliamentary government and democracy in Europe.
The Council of Ministers is made more transparent.
We would also, of course, have preferred the Preamble to make reference not only to Europe’s religious heritage, but also to the Judaeo-Christian tradition.
That has not, unfortunately, been achieved, and we very much regret it, but many of our common values are to be found in the Preamble and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, so that, all in all, we can say yes to it, and it will be signed in Rome, that great European city in which, in 1957, the Treaties of Rome were signed.
There are two people whose appointments you mentioned.
You mentioned the former Prime Minister of Portugal, José Manuel Durão Barroso, with whom we will be having discussions this afternoon, and whom I knew both when he was leader of the Opposition, and then as Prime Minister.
We are also grateful, though, that you have again nominated Javier Solana, who, in both political and human terms, has done a tremendous job in recent years, as High Representative and then as the first Foreign Minister of the European Union.
In the family photographs, the President of the Commission and the President of the European Parliament are always standing somewhere well on the fringe.
The summit of Heads of State or Government is a Community institution, at which you cannot marginalise two important Presidents, the President of the Commission and the President of Parliament.
That is not just a matter of protocol, and I would like to say that to the persons responsible in the General Secretariat of the Council.
It was your astute, persistent and calm negotiation in the last six months that made this Intergovernmental Conference a success.
We did indeed have to make compromises, and some of them were hard for us, as representatives of the European Parliament, and for the governments of the Member States, to take.
It is also the case that some simple solutions that we arrived at in the Convention were made more complicated – there is a large number of supplementary protocols and declarations, restrictions on the one hand and exceptions on the other.
Although public attention has, over the past months, been focussed on a few contentious points, the Intergovernmental Conference adopted over 90% of the Convention draft, virtually without any debate.
That is the first great success, which also confirms the methodology that the Convention adopted.
The second is democracy; although there are some deficiencies in that area, the European Parliament’s new status as a legislator with full and equal rights, the fact that the election of the President of the Commission is to be proceeded with in future not only in the light of the European elections, but also following a consultation procedure before the candidates are nominated – that, too, I regard as a success.
You yourself know, Taoiseach, that we, as representatives of the European Parliament, had to draw a red line when it came to the Budget procedure of the future.
Let me just say two things in general terms.
It is something , and so we turn a deaf ear to the critics who keep on drawing comparisons between us and the American Constitution, saying that this draft Constitution is far too complicated, too long, and so on.
The Constitution must be judged by whether or not it can bring together on the basis of a shared constitution, twenty-five and more European states and peoples, all of which, while being bound together by their political destiny, want to retain their own identity, language, culture, and historical memories.
What matters now is that the peoples of Europe, through their parliaments and through referendums, should make the Constitution a political reality.
My group, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, will play its part in this, and we will make sure that Europe gets a Constitution that will take it into the new century. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my group also wishes to congratulate the Taoiseach and his team for their prize-winning presidency: canny, courageous and committed.
What we have achieved together is something rather remarkable: we have changed the political discourse in Europe, we have established a constitutional framework for a Europe that can stand on its own feet in world affairs and deliver effective common policy to address our shared problems.
The IGC accepted the same concept of constitutional fidelity that Member States show to the Union, a concept that informed the proceedings throughout the European Convention.
We trust each other more and are more trustworthy for the citizen and the outside world.
We can be proud of our own role inside the process so far and we must not be shy of marketing Parliament on the strength of the success.
This time Parliament cannot absolve itself of responsibility for the outcome of the IGC.
It will also be our problem to resolve thereafter. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I too thank the Irish Presidency for the cheerful and elegant way in which it steered the Presidency through a very complicated period, and I particularly acknowledge the charming courtesy of Minister&#160;Roche, who in all these months succeeded in never answering the questions I put to him.
The inconsistencies between the first and third parts of the Constitution, the limitations and full implementation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the potential conflict between the President of the Commission and the President of the Council, the retention of the power of veto in too many areas of competence, the exclusion of the European Parliament from the ratification process – these are all serious steps backward, courteously guided by the Irish Presidency.
In the same way, the Presidency conducted negotiations for the Commission without ever consulting Parliament, presiding over the naval battle – truly depressing for any Euroenthusiast – between small and large Member States for this or that supercommissioner and finally arriving at the appointment of a respectable gentleman, but one who emerges most of all as the Member States’ man at the head of what we would like to see as the government of Europe.
The sad experience of the 37 African citizens confined on board the German ship for weeks outside Italian territorial waters and today illegally detained shows quite clearly that Europe is still keeping silent on asylum and that asylum policy and control of illegal immigration, which Mr&#160;Ahern mentioned, are still being seriously and dangerously confused.
Mr&#160;Ahern, the rights of migrants have been a low priority for your Presidency, but also the lack of action over Guantanamo Bay and the silence over the passenger name records (PNR) issue show that your Presidency probably had other priorities.
Our group has enjoyed collaborating with your Presidency, but it is clear that, once again, the Council has shown that it wants to lead the European Union, while we would like it to share its power a little with the other institutions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, it was in a difficult situation that Ireland took up the Presidency.
According to Eurostat, some 70% of people in the European Union wanted the issue of unemployment to be at the heart of European policy-making and of the election campaign, whereas in fact the debates were dominated by national issues and institutional EU-speak.
What is feasible in France or the UK must be a possibility in Germany, my own country.
I therefore call on all Members of this House to work with persistence towards the holding of referendums on the Constitution in every Member State of the European Union and, above all, for in-depth dialogue with people on the future of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Thank you to the Irish Presidency for its splendid technical implementation of what is the largest planned loss of democracy to date.
The right to amend the Constitution is to be shifted from the electorate to the prime ministers who, in future, will be able to amend the Constitution themselves.
With the Constitution, a group of Heads of State or Government will obtain the right to give the EU more power without ever having to consult the electorate again.
In a long list of new areas, the right to amend the laws following subsequent elections will pass from the electorate to a majority of non-elected Commissioners and a qualified majority of officials and ministers behind closed doors in secret working parties and councils.
Without any participation by our countries, a majority of the Commission will be able to adopt a Commission law that takes precedence over each country’s constitution, even if there has not been a single person from that country present.
During its Presidency, Ireland has paved the way for having to lose that right again.
The electorate is entitled to a vote.
Put the Constitution to the vote in all the countries, preferably on the same day.
In this Parliament, we have created a group for independence and democracy that calls upon the electorate to reject the proposed Constitution.
The most moving sight during the Irish presidency was the raising of the flags of our ten new partner countries at Aras an Uachtarain, the home of the Irish President.
You were able to find a way for those countries to ensure that their vital national interests were not overturned or upset, in particular as regards the doctrine of conferral within that Treaty, clarifying the issues of subsidiarity and proportionality, as well as ensuring the continuation of equality between all Member States and in the application of the rules.
I would also like to mention - as I have on previous occasions in this House - the role of Ambassador Anne Anderson and the Irish civil service.
They have proven their efficiency and professionalism in bringing together different ideas and ensuring that there was a seamless run from the very start to the very end of the presidency, with full delivery of all the commitments and promises made.
These new roles – of selling the Treaty, of ensuring that the citizens understand its benefits and of ensuring that we show the peoples of Europe that it does not undermine their own national interests – will help us guarantee that the European Union functions smoothly.
The biggest and most important of all was the EU-US summit which took place in County Clare.
This was the first step in rebuilding the relationship between the US and the European Union.
It was difficult to find somebody who could encapsulate all the desires and wishes of all the Member States, someone who will also have the necessary degree of independence to give proper political leadership to the Commission in the future.
Finally, Taoiseach, you deserve a rest after all your hard work.
President&#160;Prodi spoke of increasing the Commission’s competence in economic affairs.
I should like to acknowledge the wonderful work that our former Irish President, Pat Cox, did while in your Chair by saying that you have a hard act to follow.
On behalf of all my colleagues in the PPE-DE Group I should like to add a few words to the summation of the sixth Irish presidency of the European Union, at what has truly been a historic time.
We use the word 'historic' glibly, but it has been a time when our central and east European colleagues, along with Cyprus and Malta, have rejoined the European family.
Whether it was responding to the tragic Madrid terrorist blasts in March, repairing transatlantic ties, or celebrating the historic enlargement of the EU by welcoming our new colleagues to the Community in May, the actions taken by our presidency were measured and appropriate.
On 14 January 2004, in welcoming you at the start of your presidency, Taoiseach, I warned that most businesses, particularly the SMEs in Europe, feel that time is running out - if it has not already run out - for Lisbon.
For the Irish Government I hope that the increased project management and organisational capacity that you particularly have demonstrated this year, Taoiseach, will now be taken home and applied to the domestic scene.
Indeed, the nomination yesterday of Minister McCreevy as our Irish Commissioner here brings a wry smile to my face.
We were very proud of your Irish presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to congratulate you on your election to your new post and I wish you well.
The Council and the Commission also ganged up in an appalling effort to push through the legislation on providing personal data records relating to air transport to the United States, in the face of opposition from the European Parliament.
Taoiseach, you are not here to answer for your domestic policies.
He is one of the finance ministers who sought to deny this Parliament its democratic right to control the budget of the European Union.
If we believe in a social-market Europe rather than in a supermarket Europe, we should not allow Mr McCreevy near the economic levers of this Union. (Mr President, thank you for the opportunity to say a few words on the Irish presidency.
For all nations, but perhaps smaller nations in particular, cultural identity is very important.
We can all be true Europeans and yet fully retain our cultural identity and language is a vital part of this.) So, moving on from language to what I consider to have been a very successful Irish presidency, I want to congratulate the Taoiseach, his ministers, and in particular Minister Cowen and Minister Roche, who is with the Taoiseach here today.
I also congratulate Ambassador Anderson and the Irish civil service.
The major achievement of the Irish presidency was to secure agreement on a Treaty that establishes a Constitution for Europe but, allied to this, a key priority was to communicate Europe better to its citizens.
Therein lies the opportunity and the danger: the opportunity to engage citizens from all of the 25 countries in the European project, but equally the danger of failing to achieve that objective.
For us and for Europe the centre must hold, because the very future of the European Union depends on our efforts to involve our citizens and to communicate our positive vision for Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I too welcome you here and wish to thank you.
While we are on the subject of mediating in disputes between tribal chiefs, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am grateful to you for your achievement in civilising Europe.
The governments, of course, have given us a lesson in who really wields the power.
What makes the lesson in power all the sadder is that Parliament could, now that we are dealing with the Presidency of the Commission, deliver an appropriate response, for it, formally speaking, has the right of final decision and could well show whether or not it is willing to make the decision more real than a formality and compel respect for the House.
Where the Convention envisaged decisions by qualified majority, unanimous decisions have been introduced, and the EU’s capacity to act has suffered thereby.
The social dimension, too – and that is an area where the Convention was not successful either – has been further circumscribed, with, instead of full employment, merely a high level of it.
Now, though, the governments will need us if people are to accept this Constitution and if their parliaments are to ratify it.
Let me express my particular gratitude to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for having held to the original concept of the Constitution and of the Convention draft. (Mr President, Mr President-in Office, Taoiseach, I am proud to be here today as part of the first Sinn Féin team in the European Parliament.) As Irish republicans, following in the tradition of Bobby Sands MP, we are committed to the politics of equality, justice and freedom.
Sinn Féin believes that the enlarged EU must adopt a new set of priorities.
We support EU reform that gives power back to the people, the elimination of poverty, support for public services, revitalised rural economies, and the reform and strengthening of the United Nations.
This, we believe, is the new direction for Europe.
This is the EU that we will work towards. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I can safely say that we in Ireland have been proud of our Irish presidency and of our Taoiseach in the role of President.
We have shared our Taoiseach with the world.
To Mr Ahern I say: now it is time to come home.
I also greet Mr Cox and extend to him as well. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President.
I should like to thank the Taoiseach and his team for their accomplishments.
The result gives grounds to refute, entirely, those speculations, which were voiced before the start of the Irish Presidency, that the Irish Presidency would be time lost for the European Union in matters of vital importance.
In reality the Irish Presidency turned out to be so successful that it makes one question the ineffectiveness that is imputed to the rotation of the Presidency of the European Union.
There was all-round pessimism regarding the possibilities of the draft European Union Constitution being accepted during the Irish Presidency.
I hope that the proposed candidate will also gain the support of Parliament.
As a representative of a country on the eastern border of the European Union, the Presidency's realistically founded position as regards the development of relations between the European Union and Russia has earned my respect.
This contrasts favourably with those opinions which, unfortunately, one often observes in the European Union's relations with Russia.
I hope that the quality of the Irish Presidency will set a standard and create a favourable spirit of competitiveness in those who work for the good of the European Union.
Turning to the Irish presidency, I am sure that Mr Ahern will remember my illustrious predecessor telling him six months ago in this House, with characteristic humour, that the most beneficial thing likely to emerge from the Irish presidency would be that Mr Ahern would have less time to meddle in the affairs of British Northern Ireland.
That apart, the legacy on the constitutional front which this presidency bequeaths to us is not, in my opinion, welcome or happy.
The new constitution is nothing to be proud of for anyone who believes in democratic control and its essential companion, national sovereignty.
I appeal for honesty in the presentation of this Constitution, for recognition that it is a charter designed to facilitate and build a European superstate with ever-diminishing national powers and ever-increasing centralised powers and all the apparatus of statehood.
Finally, I compliment and reassure Mr Ahern on his continuing mastery of the English language so that he might have the confidence to abandon the foolish notion of wasting millions of euros of taxpayers' money on making Irish an official language of these institutions.
From the bottom of my heart, I want to thank you, Taoiseach, your Foreign Minister Dick Roche, your team, but also a number of people sitting further back in its second, third and fourth rows, whose extraordinary dedication and expertise have made it possible for us to have a European Constitution.
This constitution does not bring about a superstate; instead, it creates balance by allocating competences, a role of which national parliaments fight shy.
It is meant to create a fair balance between the levels.
I hope that the governments – and oppositions too – in all our countries will be strong enough to embark upon this ratification process with a sense of responsibility for us all and not with a view to showing their party to its best advantage in domestic politics.
My friend, Mr De Rossa, has just expressed the Socialists’ regrets about the Irish Presidency’s performance on social matters.
Of the ten points tested, six are regarded as somewhat negative, including, in particular, the failure to take action to achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Agenda, the lack of interest in protecting public services, and certain directives of a social nature.
Mr Savary will refer to other failings in the performance of the Irish Presidency, in particular the scandalous decision taken by the Council to supply the Bush administration with personal details about transatlantic passengers.
Finally, Mr President, let me finish by mentioning an event which is not directly concerned with the performance of the Irish Presidency, but which will have important consequences.
I want to talk about the judgment, by the Court of Justice, on the Stability and Growth Pact.
However, in that respect I have to admit that the judges at the Luxembourg Court have resisted the temptation to meddle in the Union’s economic policy.
In a Solomonic judgment, the Court has reminded the Commission that the Ecofin Council does indeed have the power of assessment, but that the Ecofin Council does not necessarily have to follow the Commission’s recommendations.
At the same time, however, Ministers have been called to order for failing to observe the rules which they themselves laid down.
The Commission’s right of initiative is thus upheld, but all rights, President Prodi, also include obligations.
The Commission now has an obligation to make proposals to turn a ‘stupid’ Stability Pact into a really intelligent pact. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Irish Presidency for the diplomacy, method and correctness with which it approached its difficult work, eventually achieving the objective of approving the Constitution.
I also thank President Pat Cox and the President of the Commission, Romano Prodi, who, through their constant, determined action, have brought the term to a close and achieved two great objectives together: enlargement and the Constitution.
They have been inspired by a different vision of Europe, which today presents us with a great Europe, strengthened through the democratic legal basis represented by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Constitution together: Europe as a civil power.
For this reason, Mr&#160;President, I dare to suggest that a specific heading should be inserted in the budget to provide timely and necessary funding for the initiative, in order to make the people of Europe more aware and to bring them effectively closer to our institutions. (Sinn Fein stands for change in Ireland and across the EU and we look forward to working with others who want to see a Europe of equals and a globally responsible EU.) I look forward to building support for the Irish peace process and Irish unity and independence.
It makes sense for Ireland to be treated as one whether in employment, agriculture or human rights.
In Ireland we are engaged in a peace process to which the European Union, the United States and others have contributed greatly.
Despite much progress, the peace process in Ireland faces great difficulties with the democratic institutions suspended by the British Government.
I would ask the Netherlands presidency to focus also on the Irish peace process. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the agreement reached on the Constitution at the June European Council was a bad one for Europe.
The Laeken Summit of 2001 called upon the European Convention and the IGC to ensure that the outcome of their work brought the European institutions closer to the people.
The Constitution does nothing to involve the nation states and people more closely in the decision-making processes of the Union.
This is a view that has perhaps been endorsed by the remarks recently made by the Dutch Foreign Minister, suggesting that we need to engage in a process of self-reflection with a view to deciding whether some policy areas should not be transferred back from European to national level.
Europe could have chosen a better way.
I welcome the debate initiated by Mr Stoiber on a possible referendum in Germany.
The agreement requires that European air carriers disclose certain data pertaining to passengers travelling to the United&#160;States, such as bank account numbers, for example.
Parliament stated that the agreement infringes European&#160;Union legislation.
In conclusion, and on a somewhat different note, I should like to congratulate the Irish&#160;Presidency most sincerely on concluding the negotiations on a Constitutional&#160;Treaty.
The compromise achieved represents a success for the Presidency and a personal success for yourself, Taoiseach.
It is actually a success for us all, because Europe and all of us need a constitution.
The Irish&#160;Presidency succeeded in convincing the governments of the twenty-five Member&#160;States to support the Constitution.
It will then be possible for the Constitution to come into force on 1&#160;November&#160;2009. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, we cannot fail to see that the net balance of the Irish Presidency was positive.
It worked effectively and brought the whole European Union two great political results: the agreement on the first Constitution and the selection of the new President of the Commission, who should be voted in by Parliament tomorrow.
The work on the Constitution was thoroughly positive.
Even so, the Irish Presidency was successful and brought to a conclusion the task done so remarkably by the Italian Presidency, which had achieved agreement on 95% of the Convention’s work.
The second important and positive result is the selection of the new candidate for the Presidency of the European Commission.
This result not only respects the vote of 13 June but at the same time acknowledges the Portuguese Prime Minister’s balance – a President of the Commission who represents renewal and a new interpretation of how to run the Executive, increasingly detached from the petty affairs of individual countries and leaning increasingly towards creating a Europe that is allied to the United States but is also politically strong and a player on the international stage. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to join in the chorus of praise for the Irish Presidency, which has proved that when there is great European inspiration there are no small countries.
I should like to mention two of them, and to associate myself with all that has been said here about the agreement with the United States on personal data in relation to transatlantic air safety.
This agreement is not in line with what Parliament wanted.
This agreement represents a risk to human rights and is a manifestation of Europe’s servility towards the United States at a time when the United States is not demonstrating very much openness in relation to human rights and the protection of citizens.
In some respects it is contrary to the elementary requirements and the ideals of our European project.
The second great disappointment is the decision of the ‘competitiveness’ Council to go back on this House’s vote at first reading on the patentability of software.
In all, your Presidency will be remembered as being a great technical presidency but as being slightly less successful as regards social matters, and this is something that is regrettable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I must start by contradicting the previous speaker.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have succeeded in reaching an agreement on the European Constitution.
I would also like to congratulate you, Mr President, on the proposal to name Mr Durão Barroso as candidate for the Presidency of the Commission, because that agreement was not easy either.
When, a few weeks ago, we celebrated the anniversary of Monnet and Spinelli, my group had the honour of representing you in this debate.
No, a country is large or small depending on whether its leaders, its peoples and its citizens have ambition and vision.
In particular, the greatest enlargement in the history of the European&#160;Union took place during this period, as several previous speakers have stated.
In June, the enlarged Europe demonstrated it could function effectively when 25&#160;European leaders agreed on the choice of candidate for President&#160;of the European Commission.
This will represent a significant and distinctive Irish contribution to the creation of a safer Europe.
Nonetheless, the question does arise as to whether that June compromise and the drive demonstrated at the time will not prove counter-productive in the future, when the draft Constitution for Europe comes to be ratified, especially through referenda.
The important thing is that the Union has shown that win-win solutions are possible if we work towards compromises, as many people have stated.
Via compromise, this unique system can create positive outcomes that benefit everybody.
I say 'mistakenly' because the European Union is about vision and a vast array of practical issues of great importance.
Many Members, from different countries and different perspectives, have mentioned those issues today.
We must explain to people what is in the Constitution.
The period between now and the entry into force of the Treaty will give us the opportunity to describe and explain what the Union does and does not do.
A clause that states that the Union's values are respect for human dignity, liberty, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights is one that can be clearly understood by all our people and should be sold to them on the basis of those values.
At the same time it is important that those who support and those who oppose the new European Constitution approach the debate with moderation, reason and accuracy.
The preamble of the text acknowledges Europe's religious inheritance.
However, an important new article recognises the special contribution of Churches and, for the first time, provides for open and regular discussion with them.
Our vision was to involve this Parliament and the parliaments of all the Member States in the process of electing the new Commission President.
Remarkable work was done in the Convention on the European social dimension.
Mr Katiforis led the working group on Social Europe.
I have to remind my good friend and colleague Mrs Doyle of that - the point has obviously passed her by over the 17 years.
Mr Czarnecki spoke of the issue of freedom of movement.
From day one we in Ireland have opened our doors to all parts of Europe and we did not distinguish between people from old and new Member States.
Mr Goebbels and a number of other Members underlined the importance of the Lisbon Agenda and regretted that more of the goals involved were not achieved.
We have set out what we would like to do in the future, but we have also said what we have done.
By securing an agreement on the financial services instruments, the market directives and the transparency directive, Minister McCreevy and his team - with excellent cooperation from Parliament - completed this services action plan.
This is a critical area for the future growth of the European economy and one I can cite as a practical example of what is being delivered on the Lisbon Agenda.
Indeed, I have underlined the importance I attach to the Lisbon Agenda in nominating Minister McCreevy as Commissioner.
I am sure his experience will help there in the future, because the Lisbon agenda is all about delivering growth and jobs for Europe, and the Minister knows about delivering those two things.
Our finance minister has liberated Irish workers from the punitive tax rates established when the administration with which Mr De Rossa was associated was in power.
Mr De Rossa says he is left-wing and Socialist and he gave under two euros to old people.
I have only been in politics for 27 years: I need to be around a while longer before I understand the definitions of right and left, which I believe are rather nonsensical in any case.
I believe that 2004 will be seen as a highly significant year for the European Union.
We enlarged to 25 Member States.
We have reinforced our relationship with our global partners.
I wish you well too, Mr President.
I look forward to the day when Scots ministers will sit alongside Irish in the Council of Ministers, as equal partners with full rights to negotiate and vote, putting Scotland's interests first and not, as at present, merely acting as bag-carriers for their Westminster bosses. &#160;&#160; . – The decisions, assessments and conclusions of the EU summit on 17 and 18 June run counter to the interests of the workers of the nations of Europe who, in voting or abstaining from the European elections on 13 June, expressed their condemnation of the ΕU and its policy.
Decisions have been taken on greater cooperation between the ΕU and the USA in order to intervene and crush nations, on disgraceful cooperation with the occupying government in Iraq, on a European army mission to Bosnia-Herzegovina, the scope of action of which is to be extended as far as Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia, and on the application of the American/NATO plan on the Middle East.
As Members of the European Parliament, you hold one of the finest and most important offices of all in the European Union.
You have received a proud mandate from Europe’s citizens.
I should particularly like to congratulate Mr Borrell on his election as President of the European Parliament, in which important position I wish him every success.
The main thing, in my view, is a great sense of responsibility: for Europe, for the substantive issues on which we want to make progress, but, above all, towards the people of Europe, for whom we are doing all this.
I should like to thank the Irish Presidency for the great job done.
Mr Ahern and his team have performed wonders.
Successful enlargement to bring in ten countries, agreement on a new European Constitution and mutually agreed selection of a really top-class nominee as President of the European Commission: these are resounding achievements.
Allow me to say a few words about the European Council’s nomination of José Manuel Barroso for the position of President of the European Commission.
You will be discussing this issue this afternoon and tomorrow.
Someone who, together with others, can help promote economic growth and increase security.
A third shows it as a drowning man trying to pull himself out of the water.
The European project is subject to critical scrutiny, from both within and outside the European Parliament.
The Netherlands Presidency is only too aware of that.
Yet worthwhile and, as history teaches us, vital if we are to tackle problems which no country can resolve on its own.
The Netherlands Presidency wants to send out that message loud and clear, with both heartfelt ambition and clear-headed realism.
The European Parliament’s membership has been expanded to 732.
The new Constitution considerably increases the European Parliament’s influence over decision-making and the course of events in the Union.
In a number of countries, approval will arouse heated debate.
The Netherlands Presidency will constantly endeavour not to lose sight of longer-term interests.
If there is one thing we want to bring to the Union, it is our forward-looking approach.
Internally, by working for consolidation of the enlarged Union, for sustainable economic growth, for security and for a sound financial foundation for the years ahead.
The ten countries which joined on 1 May of this year need to feel completely at ease within the Union as quickly as possible.
The presidency has a particular responsibility in this.
In December too, the European Council is to consider whether Turkey fulfils the Copenhagen political criteria for human rights and democracy.
The decision must be arrived at honestly, under the ground rules to which we previously, in 2002, firmly committed ourselves.
The presidency wants to make possible a well-founded decision, one which gains all-round endorsement and will also hold firm in future.
A forward-looking approach is also at the heart of the second item on the agenda: sustainable economic growth.
However, as a result of the underlying weaknesses in our economic structure, recovery is slow and laborious.
A working party chaired by Wim Kok is currently drawing up a report on what we have achieved thus far and what remains to be done.
In particular, the market for services is still subject to all kinds of national restrictions.
The Directive on services, proposed by the Commission, is an important step in the right direction.
It goes without saying that the swift approval of this legislation can give a significant boost to the European economy.
Many of the aspirations contained in the Lisbon agenda will have to be realised in the Member States.
Labour markets must become more flexible, and social security systems more enabling.
In the global economy of today and tomorrow, not only must Europe be flexible, it must also use its know-how.
Sixty years after D-Day, it remains a project for freedom, solidarity and mutual respect.
Greater security has always been a driving force behind European cooperation.
The Netherlands Presidency is endeavouring to ensure that the European Council on 5 November outlines a vision that is as concrete as possible.
In a free Europe with open internal borders, it is essential that we align our criminal-law systems and that our cooperation is watertight.
However, without more extensive coordination in these areas, we continue to run the risk of criminals evading the law and jeopardising our security.
Last month, the European Anti-Terrorism Coordinator, Gijs de Vries, outlined how Europe can put a stop to terrorism more effectively.
The Netherlands Presidency intends to take active steps to elaborate and implement the proposed action points.
The Netherlands Presidency also attaches priority to a new European drugs strategy for 2005-2012.
Tension sometimes exists between freedom and security.
The important thing is always to strike the right balance.
We are entering a phase of further harmonisation, as provided for in the Tampere programme.
Our efforts are directed towards a common asylum system and improved protection for refugees in regions of origin.
We must act together, on the basis of solidarity between Member States, to combat illegal immigration.
We intend to pay greater attention to the integration of newcomers.
In this area, Member States have their own traditions.
Negotiations on the EU’s multiannual budgetary framework – the financial perspectives – will be concluded in 2005.
The Netherlands Presidency considers it its duty to give those highly complex negotiations the best possible structure even before they begin by agreeing this year on the guidelines and principles on which they should be based.
The European Parliament will, of course, be heavily involved in preparations for establishing the new financial perspectives.
Our future is closely linked to that of our neighbours and partners elsewhere in the world.
We are a Union of 25 developed countries, a community built on the cornerstones of freedom, solidarity and mutual respect, and the world’s largest economic bloc.
We could achieve more by joining forces and speaking more in unison.
The major global issues of our time are combating terrorism, furthering human rights and democracy, economic development and the fight against poverty.
In these areas, Europe must speak with a single, resonant voice.
The European Security Strategy, and in particular the broad vision on which it is based, provides an excellent foundation for doing just that.
The Netherlands Presidency is keen to use every possible means to work towards implementing the Security Strategy.
We feel closely associated with them and want to strengthen our ties with them.
The Netherlands Presidency is keen to work towards increasing stability in that region and encouraging reforms in the political, economic and socio-cultural areas.
Europe must make a concerted contribution to the future of Iraq.
Our economic and political relations with Asia have become much more important in recent years.
The Netherlands Presidency will continue to build on the strategic relationship with our Asian partners at the proposed summits with China, India, South Korea and ASEM.
In Africa, in particular, poverty, conflicts and epidemics are taking a heavy toll.
The EU must remain active there, not only in terms of relief work, but also in a political sense.
The same applies to our term of office as President of the European Council.
In the light of this, the Netherlands has decided to take the initiative of organising a debate on the significance of European values in 2004.
The Netherlands Presidency wants to work constructively with you, the directly elected representatives of the citizens of Europe.
Perhaps I can give the final word to just such a citizen.
A major newspaper in the Netherlands is currently publishing a series of portraits of ordinary Europeans and their visions of Europe.
One of the subjects is Ilma Kaulina, a 39-year-old graphic designer from Riga.
If you put the cultural differences to one side for a moment, you can see that, together, we have the prospect of a better social and economic future.
Together with you, the Netherlands Presidency will do everything in its power not to disappoint Ilma Kaulina from Riga. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the beginning of the Dutch Presidency is a good time to reflect on the achievements made over these years and, most of all, the commitments awaiting us in the near future.
I am convinced that enlargement has improved our security and the prospects for growth in the Union, and these, as Prime Minister Balkenende has said, are the problems that the Dutch Presidency is most concerned about.
The Macedonian Government has already submitted its application to join and is now setting off along that road with determination.
The other countries will follow, each at its own pace, but the Commission will never fail to support this process, which truly rounds off the European frame of reference.
In our new neighbourhood policy we have found an original and realistic formula for proposing a new model of ever closer relationships with our new neighbours, creating a ring of friendly countries throughout the region from Morocco to Russia.
Setting up a broad, new region in political, economic and human terms was one of this Commission’s great strategic objectives.
Today this objective is a political reality.
Over these five years the Commission has also promoted the economic and social renewal of the Union and has worked hard to ensure macroeconomic stability.
The single currency has already kept its promise of stability and, in these difficult years for the world economy, our own economies have shown how well they are able to withstand external shocks.
In addition, I cannot fail to recall the constant work of constructing the internal market, in which we have often had to overcome the Member States’ resistance and lack of cohesion.
Thanks to this work, however, it now costs European consumers less to fly, to connect to the Internet and to make payments from one country to another in the Union compared with five years ago.
I must add that there is no genuine growth in the European project if it does not involve all the regions in the Union.
Of course, more needs to be done in future even in this direction, especially to respond to the request for solidarity voiced by the countries that have just joined the Union.
Nevertheless, while the euro ensures our financial stability, our future growth depends on the renovation of our economic system as provided for in the Lisbon Agenda.
Together with the projects to create networks of excellence, we are leaving the next Commission our proposal to double the Community research budget for the period 2007-2013, thus setting all the Member States an example of strong decision-making.
On the subject of education, one of the best days in our mandate was when the millionth university student went to study abroad under the Erasmus programme.
I am therefore delighted that the Dutch Presidency considers mobility and young people to be one of its priorities.
The same concept also applies to our external borders.
This is why this Commission has launched the university cooperation and exchange programmes with the Mediterranean, the Balkans and Central Asia.
Ladies and gentlemen, having recalled some of the achievements of this mandate, let us now look at what remains for us to do by the end of October.
As you know, last week the Commission approved a legislative package that follows on from the political programme adopted last February.
The strategy is simple: first we defined the political priorities for the period after 2007 and then we put on the table the schedule of the minimum financial resources needed to achieve these objectives.
The fact is that Europe really can make a difference, but if financial resources are lacking European added value will be zero.
The Union’s priorities, as the European Council has so often reaffirmed, are competitiveness, European citizenship and Europe’s role in the world.
We have made these decisions very seriously, and it is our job to find the resources in the Community budget to achieve them, because they are tasks that have been entrusted to us by the European Council.
Since 1&#160;May 2004 we have continued our efforts for the unification of Europe.
In early October, the Commission will adopt the report and opinion on the start of accession negotiations with Turkey, which will be the basis for the Council decision in December.
I did not hesitate to accept the mandate conferred on me by the European Council in December 2002 to present this report on Turkey’s compliance with the Copenhagen political criteria and to issue an opinion on it.
This total impartiality is our duty towards our governments, our citizens and the Turkish people, who hope to join us, as well as towards the people of Europe.
I should like to take this opportunity to pay due tribute to all the women and all the men who keep our institution alive and make it grow every day, often in the face of incomprehension and lack of awareness.
This is our true strength. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats warmly welcome you, along with Mr Nicolai, your Minister for Europe, and your colleagues.
The most important task before us is more a matter of political psychology; it involves the inward completion of the enlargement of the European Union, and our gaining an understanding of each other.
That is crucial, whether the decision is taken by referendum or by parliamentary bodies, as some countries’ traditions require.
You mentioned the internal market.
I cannot but emphatically endorse what you said about the continuing completion of the internal market, and also about the further realisation of the research area that you mentioned – as did the President of the Commission as well.
We have to get young scientists to stay in Europe; they have to have prospects here that will keep them from emigrating to the USA or to other countries.
Contentious though the issue of Turkey is for us, it is important that the criteria should be complied with, that there should be no political opportunism and, should negotiations take place, that consideration be given to alternatives, such as, for example, a privileged partnership with Turkey.
You spoke of Europe’s values.
I trust that all Europe’s media will now take up your reference to Ilma Kaulina from Riga, who believes in Europe’s future.
That is what you are working towards, and in that our group wishes you much success. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you, Mr Balkenende, in what you had to say about the economy, focussed on the Lisbon process, and my colleagues Mr van den Berg and Mr Désir will set out our group’s position on this at greater length.
Economic renewal, a fitter Europe – which is indispensable – Europe as a global player not only in economic terms, a Europe that wants to be a success and will be one – only by maintaining internal social cohesion can these things be achieved.
If we want that, we need social stability.
Social cohesion is an indispensable part of the Lisbon process.
If you concentrate your efforts on that during your presidency of the Council, then we European Socialists will be right alongside you.
If the European Union wants international credibility, it has to keep to its promises.
What that means is that, if the criteria have been met, negotiations have to start.
If we were to succeed in bringing together in reconciliation a society of Muslims – which is what Turkish society is – with a society to whose values you have referred, such as freedom, solidarity, fraternity, civilian control of the armed forces, respect for human rights, the abolition of the death penalty, the freedom of the justice system; if we were to succeed in demonstrating that Islam and the Western value-system were not mutually exclusive, but mutually compatible, it would prove the Bin Ladens of this world wrong.
Mr Balkenende, I listened with great attention when you said you wanted to concentrate your efforts on combating terrorism and also on a new policy on drugs.
We very much welcome that, but fighting terrorism also involves the EU institutions established for that purpose being capable of doing their job.
While we are on the subject of counter-terrorism, let me say that we are all willing to join in a coalition against terrorism.
What we are not willing to do is to allow, as part of counter-terrorism, the abandonment of fundamental values for which we stand and to which you have referred, such as freedom, justice, and fairness in our dealings with one another.
With the summer recess and a new Parliament and Commission rushing to find their feet, you must achieve in three-and-a-half months what many presidencies struggle to achieve in six.
The foundation of social cohesion in Europe is a strong and dynamic economy.
But we need qualified majority voting and codecision in asylum, immigration and judicial cooperation as provided for in Article 251 of the Treaty.
Yours is also the presidency that will oversee the nomination of the new Commission.
Last week my group asked the Commission President-designate to commit himself to striving for a better gender balance in the Commission.
But in reality this is your job, Mr President-in-Office.
Liberals and Democrats in this House want a Commission that is at least one-third women.
We need a debate on Turkey.
If this presidency can publish guidelines and principles for the negotiations in December we will have the basis for an intelligent debate on future financial perspectives.
You must decide on questions which will define the future of our Union.
You also used the word sustainability, a very fashionable term these days but one that for many has very little substance.
Even so, there will be a lot to do over the next six months to encourage not only producers but also governments to make economically sustainable decisions.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is precisely the main thrust of your actions over the next six months that will show our fellow citizens to what extent Europe has listened to the message that the European people have sent it.
The social partners, and in particular those who will be meeting in October at the European Social Forum in London, will certainly pay close attention to the three principal issues which you yourself, as well as Mr Prodi, have just mentioned, and which my group would like to put on the agenda right now.
For that reason, we see this text as unacceptable.
As far as reform is concerned, at this stage we have still not managed to put an end to our obsession with reducing public and social expenditure, or even to the 3% myth.
Finally, there is the revision of the Lisbon Strategy.
The working party chaired by Mr Kok is due to submit its report in October, but you are already calling for more flexibility and deregulation, as a way of helping countries with a very low level of social acquis.
See you in September. &#160;&#160; I should like to warmly welcome to this House the Netherlands Council Presidency in the person of our Prime Minister.
The theme of this Presidency is innovation.
The human rights situation in the world remains worrying.
Firstly, it is true that enlargement of the European Union with ten new Member States has made it even stronger globally than ever before and particularly as regards such matters as trade policy and coordination of development.
Secondly, the Presidency's wish to ensure the safety of energy supplies in a liberalised market is commendable, therefore the Council wishes to intensify talks with Russia on the compatibility of electricity and natural gas pipelines.
Thirdly, the Dutch Government justifiably refers to its wealth of experience in matters of human rights as Chair of the OSCE.
Well, it should be possible for those people to have their say about an essential, fundamental issue such as the accession of a non-European country to the European Union.
The European Constitution will prompt a referendum in various Member States.
If we want to avoid the people in Europe turning away from the European Union even more, we must keep this referendum linked to the issue of the Turkish application. &#160;&#160; Mr President, during this Netherlands Presidency, all 25 Union partners are for the first time responsible for the success of these six months of cooperation, six crucial first months.
As President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Balkenende can, and must, provide considerable impetus in vital areas.
In the same spirit, the Council needs to approve the European Parliament’s new statute rather than standing in its way.
I should like to hear from Mr Balkenende how he intends to give the necessary signals in terms of approach and communication.
From my own experience as a national member of parliament, I know how capable he is of forceful policy and of perseverance in his policy, even if that is unpopular or even controversial.
These range from a coherent and humane asylum policy that immediately tackles human trafficking, to a united stand against worldwide terrorism.
In the context of credibility, I agree that no fresh requirements should be added in respect of candidate Member States such as Turkey.
Also in terms of the economy, the document by Mr Kok, our ex-Prime Minister, would be ambiguous; I therefore expect clear proposals of their own from the Council and the Commission and essential action points in order to give the Lisbon agenda a shot in the arm.
There is every reason to ask a great deal from this Presidency in those areas.
Mr Balkenende knows that, in terms of decisiveness, he can count on the complete confidence and support of MEPs, myself included.
Your European Affairs Minister has asked us, above all, to lead the political debate.
You spoke about modernisation, competition with the US and Asia, and about achieving the Lisbon objectives.
At the same time, you fail to address the European tendering rules that are throttling the small and medium-size companies.
Whereas we used to talk about investing 3% of the GDP per Member State in research and education, areas where, incidentally, the Netherlands has so far been lagging behind badly, you now only talk about the Stability Pact, economising and holding firm to the deficit of 3% maximum, without making resources and scope available for holding just as firm to 3% investment in research and education.
In all fairness, the Kok report on ‘work, work, work’ would take this really seriously.
Although we warmly welcome you and your Presidency, we are still struggling to accept your political choices, and we are looking forward to the debate under your Presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in a former political life, I was on the council of Amstelveen, a medium-sized town in the Netherlands.
Mr President, an analogy with the Council of Ministers urges itself upon us.
The programme of the Netherlands Presidency is good.
The European elections have demonstrated that voters are not only indifferent, as you quite rightly pointed out; they are also outraged by the European institutions.
This should, in fact, also be of concern to Parliament and the Commission.
Europe must regain a human dimension.
I should really like to warmly welcome the President-in-Office of the Council to the European Parliament.
In the Netherlands, Prime Minister Balkenende has appointed himself as the man of standards and values and, in Europe too, he is keen to seize upon the Presidency as a means of having a debate on European standards and values, which I welcome.
My group would be in favour of measuring asylum policy against the yardstick of decency.
For example, the Dutch insisted that the European directive on asylum procedures, which the Justice Ministers adopted in May, should allow asylum seekers to be deported before the final outcome of their appeal procedure.
I can say that my group will be proposing to the European Parliament that this directive be nullified before the European Court of Justice.
I do, though, also want to congratulate the Netherlands Presidency.
An important advantage of the Constitution is that the Council of Ministers’ legislative meetings will from now on be held in public, something about which I am delighted.
On a final note, I would like to mention the Stability Pact.
It becomes inevitable that the Stability Pact’s future is at risk.
The Commission has already tabled some suggestions in this connection, and it remains to be seen whether the Dutch Government will take decisive action in this area.
It embraces the now outmoded illusions of the Lisbon Summit in 2000, which assumed that before 2010, Europe would be able to beat the United States and Japan in a competitive battle by making things as bad here as they already are over there.
The same is true of the Stability Pact.
If Mr Balkenende wants to transform the whole of Europe in this way, he will bring about major social conflict, because public opinion is heading in a different direction.
Although the Lisbon Summit has decided to dispose of public services, this Parliament subsequently decided, at my proposal and by a large majority, to dispense with this requirement concerning public transport.
Instead of striving for unbridled economic growth at the expense of social security, public services and the environment, it is preferable to keep taxes to an adequate level and seek a redistribution of national and European income for the benefit of the weakest and of useful community tasks, and also for the benefit of integrating immigrants and removing poverty and despair in the world, which are still providing a continuous breeding ground for terrorism. &#160;&#160; Mr President, indeed we have much to look forward to in the course of the next six months and I notice in these proposals that there is an absolute mass of proposed financial services regulation.
Frankly what I would like you to do is to press this programme as aggressively as you can because you will make the British public and the public in many other Member States so furious that when we get our chance in these ten referendums we will say no and we will say it loudly. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to ensure continuity between Presidencies.
The issue of the draft of the new Constitution also fell within the Irish&#160;Presidency.
In a number of countries notably my own, Poland, very large sections of public opinion are gravely concerned by the decision to omit all reference to God and to Christianity from the preamble.
The change in the voting system presents a further difficulty.
This was the first step in the creation of an independent Slovak state.
The foundation of the Slovak Republic was a&#160;step towards the EU and it was my own party, the Movement for a&#160;Democratic Slovakia, led by Mr Meciar, which submitted the application of the Slovak Republic to join the European Union.
I&#160;therefore regard our current membership of the EU as the fulfilment of our goals, our ideas and our programme.
The three Members representing the HZDS, the movement for a democratic Slovakia, Mr Kozlík, Mr Baco and myself, are working in the Group of Non-attached Members, but I&#160;would like to assure you that our efforts will be directed towards the building of a&#160;future Europe that is both prosperous and ever more closely unified.
I think it would be best if you proceeded with the vote first and if I gave my reaction once all the speakers have taken the floor.
Mr James Nicholson Mrs Godelieve Quisthoudt-Rowohl Mrs Mia De Vits Mrs Genowefa Grabowska Mrs Anneli Jäätteenmaki Mrs Astrid Lulling You will have noticed that it is a list predominantly comprising women.
I would ask the President-in-Office of the Council to forgive this technical incident and to remain in our debate. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by giving the new President of the Council, on behalf of the CDU/CSU delegation, a very warm welcome to the European Parliament and assuring him of our support should he need support from this House.
We have to make that clear without reservations, and, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that involves not constricting this relationship or reducing it to membership, but instead bearing other options in mind as well.
The newly-elected chairman of the Socialist Group has now made it known to us that negotiations are to be commenced with Turkey, provided that it has complied with the necessary conditions by the autumn, and, in so doing, he has acted as if Turkey’s compliance or non-compliance were at present a hidden mystery, one to be revealed in the autumn when the Commission produces its report.
If I may adapt Berthold Brecht’s phrase, we cannot elect a new public in Europe; we have to live and work with the one we have.
I am therefore firmly convinced that we have to seize the opportunity presented by the debate on the Constitution to bring Europe and its citizens closer together.
The debate on the Constitution offers us a unique chance to do that.
Implementing the Constitution and making the public more familiar with it is a matter of obligation for us all. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your Presidency will have to prepare the mid-term review of the Lisbon Strategy.
More than ever, Europe needs a strategy for sustainable growth and employment, and for investment in research, in major trans-European networks, in education, in knowledge and in the environment.
Yet such an initiative is incompatible not only with the efforts which have to made in research, and on the subject of which Romano Prodi has put forward some proposals, but also with the policy of territorial cohesion in the new enlarged EU.
We, on the other hand, believe that all these things make the EU more competitive, and we also believe that respect for the integrity of the Lisbon Agenda will be a test of your Presidency’s success and will determine what support we shall be able to give it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to wish the Netherlands Presidency every success with its priorities.
However, in my opinion, the interpretation of this Lisbon agenda is extremely social.
We are faced with 9% unemployment in Europe and with unemployment among young people, some of whom will never get a job.
Therefore, it is not by watering down environmental policy and regulation in Europe that we will give the necessary impetus for innovation in our industries. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all allow me to congratulate the Irish President, Bertie Ahern, for the work he has done in bringing to a successful conclusion a task of historical importance, namely the signing of the European Constitution.
If, as I fervently hope, all twenty-five EU countries ratify the Constitution over the coming months, this twice-yearly examination of the Union’s priorities will be abandoned in favour of a system of presidencies lasting two and a half years, which will be more stable and therefore more effective.
Above all, however, in December the European Council will have to take a crucial decision on whether or not to open negotiations with Turkey.
In adopting that position we are absolutely in line with the statements made by Hartmut Nassauer.
Political resources include financial resources too, because the European budget has solidarity: solidarity between new and old Member States of the Union, between more and less favoured areas, between net contributors and beneficiaries.
I should like to congratulate the Commission on the courage it has shown in lifting the taboo of the British rebate, and I should also like to congratulate the Council of Finance Ministers on having approved, at first reading, an ambitious draft budget for 2005.
It is a heavy responsibility, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and we shall be there at your side if you contribute towards making Europe a political and effective Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we agree with the priority document of the Dutch Presidency where it states, in relation to the new financial perspectives, that we will face complex negotiations which must begin on time so that they can be completed before the beginning of the 2007 budgetary cycle.
When I talk about negotiations, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am referring to negotiations with Parliament.
If you wish to lay the foundations for proper negotiations, you must remember that, throughout the process of discussing the new financial perspectives, including at the point when they are approved, the European Constitution will not yet be in force.
Without going into detail, since time does not allow it, I would like to say that the Socialist Group believes that the priorities within these new perspectives are, in short, cohesion between the different regions, which has become even more important with our recent enlargement, and the disparities in income it has brought; job creation and, finally, development aid for third countries, the current Category 4, the category which has grown least since 1999, the year when the current financial perspectives began, despite the many new obligations. &#160;&#160; – The programme of the Netherlands’ Presidency relies on realities and we welcome these endeavours.
From this point of view, I would like to deal with two objectives of the Presidency.
Connected to that, is the second important objective: the preparation of Agenda 2007.
If I were to re-formulate this sentence in the spirit of the Netherlands’ Presidency, then I would say that it is an ambitious but realistic objective to count the successful integration as a basic principle.
Prime Minister, you mentioned the brain drain to overseas.
We support all your endeavours that bring this opinion into the basic principles of the budget.
Finally, I would like to express my appreciation to the Netherlands’ Presidency for having initiated a dialogue and communication from the richness and colourfulness of our European culture.
That is why Lisbon laid down these criteria as a separate pillar in its development.
The work programme of the Netherlands Presidency appears to ignore this.
In other words, the Netherlands Presidency implies, in a way, that liberalising the market will automatically create jobs.
Therefore, what we want from the Netherlands Presidency is to hear specific policies on full employment and sustainable developments: simple things.
Finally, as far as terrorism is concerned, of course we all know what it is and we all want to combat it, but we cannot have a work programme of a Presidency of the European Union which only talks about police measures and makes no reference to the human rights and personal freedoms which these measures often infringe.
We, in Greece, experienced this problem on a daily basis during preparations for the 2004 Olympic Games and we are trying to strike the right balance.
The Netherlands Presidency should therefore do likewise and stop focusing solely on policing. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, those who bear responsibility at the outset of things – Mr President-in-Office of the Council – have a decisive influence on what happens in later years.
Yours is a double responsibility in that your Presidency of the Council coincides with the beginning of a new Parliament and the allocation of portfolios to a new Commission.
Use the Financial Perspective to plan political priorities up to 2013, use the consideration of the Commission’s report on Turkish accession to have a debate on the European Union’s geographical boundaries and on what it is capable of doing, and produce alternatives to full membership for Turkey.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are convinced of this, and I hope that you can propagate this conviction during your Presidency of the EU.
Policies adopted by socialist governments have stunted the growth of economies and drowned us and our vital businesses in costly regulatory frameworks.
The demographic time-bomb is ticking, as more people become unproductive too soon.
Above all we have to show the people that Europe is working in a friendly way: supporting them, not smothering them, giving them more freedom to improve the quality of their lives and the lives of those close to and around them, and to achieve their aspirations in the medium and long term.
Thank you for the support you have expressed for the Netherlands Presidency, but also thank you for your critical observations.
There are different views in the European Parliament, but at the moment I would like to say: let us pay heed to consistency in decision-making and procedures.
Many of you have spoken about this as well.
A third point concerns the ratification of Europe’s Constitutional Treaty.
That means that you cannot run ahead of it, out of respect for the ratification process.
On the other hand, it is important that we have time for coordination, for a proper debate and, in that context too, there will be discussions with one another about it in connection with RASEP.
Where credibility and fair play are concerned, another brief word about the financial perspectives.
I am standing here as the President of the European Council, who is responsible for a fair process in which the different arguments are exchanged.
A process that must be characterised by openness and transparency.
I know that you appreciate the intensive involvement of Parliament and, as part of the conciliation, agreements were made on 16 July about contacts between the Presidency and the European Parliament.
All these elements must have their place in an honest and open debate.
Many speakers have spoken about the importance of the European economy and the strengthening of the economic structure and, in that context, you have asked for a lot of attention for the Lisbon process.
Mrs In 't Veld for example has raised this in no uncertain terms.
Secondly, it must be about social cohesion, the social cohesion of which Mr Wurtz, Mr Poettering, Mr Schulz and others have spoken.
I am looking forward to a good debate with you about this very important subject, because we can talk about a treaty, we can talk about the citizen, but it is in the interest of this citizen that there are more jobs in Europe, that there are opportunities for our children and grandchildren and that, in 30 or 40 years, Europe will still be in a strong position, on the global stage as well.
A second point, when it comes to Europe’s focus upon the future, concerns the Justice and Home Affairs Council agenda: doing justice to the constitutional state in Europe, responding to security and fighting terrorism.
Last Monday it was decided that the procedure should be restarted, and there is a commitment from all the Member States that, precisely because of the arguments you mentioned, a new director should be appointed during the Netherlands Presidency.
Then it is good to refer to another point, the point about the constitutional state, and in this context Mr Schulz has referred to Guantanamo Bay.
The European Union has always demonstrated its concern about the situation in Guantanamo Bay and, on several occasions and at several levels in its contacts with the United States, has spoken out in favour of the treatment of the detainees meeting the standards of the Geneva Conventions and human rights.
In my view that will also be the attitude if you talk about values in Europe.
Freedom, solidarity and respect.
I have listened carefully to the critical observations; they were probing, and we shall take them into account in our Presidency.
We have started to work together and we are in perfect agreement as to our objectives.
I ask you to launch this instrument, to use it and to really make it a forum for the active dialogue that we need. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; . – The declarations by the Netherlands Presidency on its work programme are a provocation to the workers and peoples of the European Union.
The speedier and more efficient promotion of capitalist restructurings, the changes in the labour market and to working times, further privatisation of public-sector services, pressure for new reductions to pensions and leaner social security systems and insistence on the Lisbon strategy and anti-grass roots policies in general demonstrate once again that the ΕU only serves big business.
The strengthening of the mercenary European army, its now definitive presence in the Balkans, the creation of direct intervention units and the synchronised defence of the new order and imperialist interests by the EU and the USA, run counter to the will of the people for peace and social progress.
I and other colleagues waited ten minutes for a lift down to this floor.
I shall repeat the list of candidates: for the PPE-DE Group, Mr James Nicholson and Mrs Godelieve Quisthoudt-Rowohl, for the PSE Group, Mrs Mia De Vits and Mrs Genowefa Grabowska, for the ALDE Group, Mrs Anneli Jäätteenmaki, and, presented by 46 Members, Mrs Astrid Lulling.
We are united in our diversity – national, regional, cultural, linguistic and political.
Over 50 years we have designed a new and unique way of working together.
We have shown that our nation states are stronger when we act together in areas where Europe delivers the best results.
Our vision of integration provides an example for other regions.
As Jean Monnet said, ‘’ The first of May was an event of historic proportions with the accession of ten new Member States.
I come from a small country which has experienced the transition from dictatorship to democracy; a country on the edge of our continent, but with its heart at the very centre of Europe.
I stand for the basic values that underpin our Union: freedom, respect for human rights, the rule of law, equality of opportunity, solidarity and social justice.
I would like us, together with Member States, the social partners, businesses and citizens across the Union, to build a partnership for Europe – a partnership for prosperity, solidarity and security in our continent.
We must build our Europe together.
Our goals are prosperity, solidarity and security and we must show concrete results: the euro, delivering monetary stability and investment, a single market fuelling growth, competition and jobs, a unique social model protecting the weakest in our society and helping people adapt to changing circumstances, quality public services offering affordable access for all, a sustainable approach to the environment and – perhaps of greatest importance – peace and stability in our region and beyond.
That Treaty consolidates and simplifies the Union, it strengthens our democratic base by extending this Parliament's powers and by finding innovative ways to give a greater voice to national parliaments and to Europe's citizens.
It will be a crucial moment and lead to a broad discussion on the kind of Europe people want.
The new Commission, this Parliament and Member States must be ready with answers.
The partnership I propose must, therefore, respond to the concerns of our citizens.
The new Constitutional Treaty already foresees that we must put our objectives together.
If confirmed, early in 2005 I will bring before you and the Council proposals for the overall strategic priorities to guide our work for the years ahead.
Such an agenda of prosperity, solidarity and security must deal with the most pressing challenges for our peoples today.
Europe and the world are changing, and we need to change too.
If we want Europe to work we must give people jobs.
Our social ambition must be fuelled by economic success.
Wealth creation is the key to our model of social solidarity and sustainability.
Entrepreneurship and innovation must be harnessed to deliver a better quality of life.
We must never forget the economy is there to serve the people and not the other way around.
This means ensuring the flexibility needed to keep us on the path to growth and employment, whilst preserving monetary stability.
Our future success will depend on our willingness to take risks, be ready for change and to introduce reforms.
The construction of an area of freedom, security and justice remains one of our most important strategic objectives.
The Commission should remain a driving force helping to create the conditions needed for the removal of internal borders and the strengthening of the Union's external borders.
This applies as much to our nearest neighbours as to the support that we give to the role of international institutions such as the United Nations.
A strong Commission must be open; it must consult and listen in continuous dialogue with civil society, the social partners and the regions.
I can assure you today that I am determined, with your support, to preside over a Commission that will work as a team, bringing together a variety of talents and skills, the best that national traditions have produced, and that the Commission will have to meet the highest standards of excellence in public life.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission and Parliament must work together in a positive spirit, while respecting each institution’s competences.
I therefore give you my firm commitment to cooperate closely with Parliament in complete transparency and always to take account of your views, even when we disagree.
I promise you three things in particular: Firstly, if a commissioner is clearly not up to his or her job or he or she fails in his or her obligations under the Treaty, I will not hesitate in asking him or her to resign.
Secondly, I recognise the importance of the democratic control exercised by Parliament.
Thirdly, I will maintain a regular dialogue with Parliament.
You are the voice of the peoples of Europe.
Culture must remain at the heart of our partnership for Europe.
Let us together open a new chapter in European integration and give clear voice to our common desire to work for the benefit of Europe’s citizens.
Let me say in conclusion, as one politician speaking to other politicians, that I fully understand the historic responsibility of this very special moment.
It is essential that this enlargement is a success.
Finally, I also want to add that if I am elected I want to work with all of you.
I will not be the President of one part of Europe against another part of Europe, because I am convinced that my election will allow a bridge to be built between the founding members and the new members of Europe, between the richer and the poorer, between the countries at the centre and those on the periphery, between the larger countries and the smaller countries, because we need them all.
Thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-designate of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, our Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the unanimous proposal by the Heads of State or Government of the countries of the European Union that José Manuel Durão Barroso should become President of the European Commission.
If it lies at the heart of Europe, at the centre of the European Union, that is also an expression of allegiance to the common work of uniting Europe, which is something we all want to make a success.
As Mr Jan-Peter Balkenende, the President of the European Council, said here this morning, this Europe is a Europe of values, and there is a relationship and a balance between those values.
You described that balance: freedom, human rights, democracy, the rule of law, solidarity and social justice.
For all the disputes we may have in this House over individual issues, it is after all our common aim to serve this continent.
At the same time, you also know that the Commission can only be strong if it has the broad majority of the European Parliament behind it.
The European Commission is the guardian of the Treaties.
That is what we expect of you and of all members of the Commission.
You spoke of a partnership for Europe.
That is why we must give our continent’s young people a chance.
Ladies and gentlemen, we all believe in the future of Europe and that is why we should give this candidate, who like his country is at the heart of the European Union, a chance so that tomorrow we will be able to say we have a new President of the European Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has already been written about your candidature.
The European People’s Party candidate was called Patten, but he was not adopted.
We see ourselves as a parliamentary group that should be free and unfettered in considering whether you are the right candidate for the office of Commission President and that must look at the terms on which it is to decide whether you are the right candidate or not.
We have heard what you had to say today and I respect you for it.
We will take our decision in our group this evening on the basis of your answers to these questions.
You have been asked a lot of questions; you have answered many to our satisfaction, but many you have not.
I can announce here and now that we will – as I have described – have a frank discussion of this in the group this evening.
I want to make one thing perfectly clear, and it is not directed at you personally: the manner in which you were nominated is not acceptable, and I think this is the last time that a candidate for the Presidency of the Commission will be nominated in that way.
If the Constitution becomes reality, there will be competition for this office, where programmes and persons representing those programmes will be presented to voters in competition with each other.
No one can satisfy all the requirements I have listed here 100% all of the time, that is impossible, especially if he is not a member of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which you are not.
We asked for clarity about the subject of Super Commissioners, a better gender mix in the Commission and a commitment to transparency and individual accountability for Commissioners.
You have impressed Liberals and Democrats in this House with your candour and your competence.
We look forward to the day when these choices are made not behind closed doors but in open debate, the day when it is Parliament and the voters of Europe who determine which candidate should be there for our executive and the Council which does the approving!
You will believe that when we serve our national or party political agendas over our European agenda, we do a disservice to our Union.
If those are your ambitions then Liberals and Democrats in this House will support you and your Commission.
The Commission's independence and strength are key to its effective leadership in Europe.
We need a Commission President who is going to lead from the front in the debate on the new European Constitution.
Who will commit to travelling widely across our Union to make the case for Europe to Europe's citizens.
Who can master a hundred briefs and still find time to speak with vision and clarity about the future of our continent.
These are the qualities that Liberals and Democrats will be weighing up when we vote tomorrow, and which would ultimately define the success of your presidency and your Commission.
In return, we will expect never to find, as you did, that the cockpit of Europe's aeroplane is empty or the hand on its rudder is unsure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing an amazing spectacle today.
Going back to Mr Watson’s analogy, I agree there must be a pilot, but is that pilot going to change direction whenever one of his passengers or the control tower asks him to, the control tower being the Council, of course, and the passengers the 732 Members of the European Parliament?
You are the third spare wheel.
If this House ever wants to be respected, it must send the Council a clear and determined ‘no’.
The Council has never adopted a proposal from this House as it stood.
This is not directed at you; what I am saying is that there is a fundamental problem with democracy in this Europe, that the Council, that the government people of which it is composed – even those of my favourite government, the German Government – are intergovernmental when they are in government.
That is why I appeal to the liberals, who have always fought for this House: you can do Europe a service today by making the Council understand that we will no longer tolerate its behaviour.
My group has appreciated the readiness with which Mr&#160;Barroso has submitted to this crossfire, this barrage of questions from Members who were not among his closest political friends.
Economically and socially, Mr Barroso is a liberal.
The severe cuts in public expenditure, including on education, in Portugal, for example, or the uncompromising application to the hospital sector of management criteria commonly used in private enterprise.
I will say in more general terms that in my opinion for all the major positions of responsibility within the Union we need men and women who are prepared to consider far-reaching challenges to the severe trends that are plunging Europe into crisis before our very eyes and making it helpless in the face of many of the world’s problems.
We are not suffering from an excess of lucidity in this regard but rather from a cruel lack of critical intellect that means we do not have a vision for the future that is capable of motivating us.
The world needs Europe, but a different Europe.
We know that six million – yes, six million – people died of Aids, tuberculosis or malaria last year, that global warming is advancing much faster than the measures devised to contain it, not to mention that those measures are not being adhered to, that there are a billion people without jobs, that one human being in six has no access to drinking water, that war is brewing in the Middle East, continuing in Chechnya and bathing Darfur in blood; it is therefore our duty, at whatever level decisions are taken in Europe, to see further than the market and further, too, than mere Atlantic solidarity.
That is why, if we refuse to put our confidence in Mr Barroso tomorrow, that will not be a vote against an individual, it will be the expression of a universal call for change. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, dear Mr&#160;Barroso, my group submitted three questions about greater openness and better control.
You visited our group and acknowledged officials’ lack of accountability.
We want a President who dares, and is able, to answer the questions himself and who dares to accept responsibility for the organisation as a whole.
I am merely saying that we cannot check up on whether it is happening.
The Commission’s telephone directory is also available on the Net, provisionally and as an experiment.
We also think that you should inaugurate a new era by providing courageous whistleblowers such as Paul van Buitenen, Marta Andreasen and Dorte Schmidt-Brown with full restitution of their civil rights.
In yourself, I hope to see a President who is everything but the bureaucrats’ dream, and I am able to offer my group’s critical opposition.
I hope that we see a President who dares to make available a list of the committees that get ideas on everything from rules governing the size of strawberries to a common criminal law. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the President-in-Office of the Council has recalled that the June elections were an historic event, with the election to this House of 732 representatives of 25 European peoples.
In order to inform and involve the citizens, we have to ask for appropriations for information campaigns on the activities of the Union and Parliament, but we must also look into the deep-seated reasons that have led the electorate to become disaffected in many of our countries.
In this Eurorealist view, we think of a Europe that is actively involved in matters connected with the economic revival to combat unemployment and increase development, a Europe able to point out its own path to guide globalisation along and not be subjected to it any longer, as has happened so far, and to propose new economic rules that can prevent further speculative bubbles.
Europe must be united in the fight against terrorism and organised crime and in encouraging the growth of democracy in those countries where it is still denied.
Human rights, personal dignity, respect for freedom and the pursuit of peace must not remain just documents signed by the three Community institutions but must become economic, political and cultural actions directed towards those parts of the world where suffering and misery are tragic realities.
We must re-engage the Community institutions to achieve development compatible with the adaptation times of human beings, safeguarding the environment as a source of life and a guarantee for the future of humanity, and paying greater attention to the enterprise concept, even at the smallest and most home-made scale.
Mr&#160;President, while the Union for Europe of the Nations Group confirms its vote for you and wishes you all the best in your work, it would also recall that, while we certainly need a pilot in the cabin of the aircraft, we also need a President who can travel around Europe to get to know others and to make himself known.
Having said that, I am personally pleased for you, even if you have very limited room for manoeuvre on the question of Turkey, for example, which the Prodi Commission has settled for you: you have inherited accession.
So far as the financial perspectives are concerned, you are limited not only by the 1.27% ceiling or the 1% ceiling.
Pascal Lamy could not do it in Cancun or Seattle, and I do not know whether your commissioner will be able to do it either.
In spite of all I have just said, because you are a man from a great country and from a people with a great history, like the men and women of Portugal watching the pilots leave the mouth of the Tagus on their way to conquer new stars&#160;–&#160;and even though I fear your institutional caravel will go round in circles in Brussels’ pond, or quagmire, of false economic ideologies &#160;–&#160;I will wish Captain Barroso, the Commission and his 24 crewmen a fair wind.
You have shown, Mr President-designate, that you have a number of very impressive qualities that fit you for the post of President of the Commission.
You have been a reforming Prime Minister of your country and, despite the setback of the recent football result, you personally can take pride in the fact that you have made a great contribution in enhancing your nation's profile and standing in Europe and beyond.
OLAF should be made fully independent with its own staff and budget and the EU needs a Commissioner with sole responsibility for budgetary control so that person can ensure that there is proper accounting and effective tackling of fraud.
Your future role – which I hope will be confirmed tomorrow – will be to ensure that directives take full account of the diversity of Europe and the circumstances of individual regions and industries.
If this House endorses your candidature tomorrow, as I hope it does, you have a great opportunity to deliver on a maxim which had great resonance in my country in the European elections: Europe should be doing less, but it should be doing it better. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Barroso, our president Mr Schulz has already said that the Group of the Party of European Socialists is only now forming its opinion, since this is done on the basis of facts and not of prejudices.
The first point, which you can do nothing about personally, is the whole selection process.
Perhaps, on the strength of your experience over the last few weeks, you can help us to at last bring about a different attitude in the relationship between Council, Parliament and Commission, especially with a view to and in connection with the new Constitution.
That relationship has been upset by this very selection process in the last few months.
Secondly, my colleague Mr Wiersma will be speaking about foreign policy, but, Mr Barroso, at the hearing you failed to convince us about your behaviour in connection with the Iraq war.
The quite crucial question, however – and here, too, your answer so far has been completely unsatisfactory – is what European social model you stand for.
You stress the importance of public services.
You have not said you favour framework directives, you have not said that in this Europe public services should be protected, expanded and strengthened in the public interest.
What you understand a social Europe to be falls short of our expectations.
Finally, we were sorely disappointed when you resigned as prime minister immediately after your nomination, as though you had already been elected.
You said that 50% plus one vote would be enough for you.
If that is enough for you, then sometimes you might get 50% less one vote for your proposals in this House.
I do not know whether you will be elected tomorrow, but it is highly likely.
I nevertheless wish you luck in this argument that you will have with our group if you are elected. &#160;&#160; Mr President-designate, if this House gives its approval and you are appointed tomorrow, you will become the next President of the Commission at a crucial time for the future of our Union and for European integration.
I am convinced that our fellow citizens expect us to build that political union.
Finally, our fellow citizens want Europe to carry weight in the world because they know that the world’s balance will be different depending on whether Europe exists or not.
The second issue is the building of a genuine European democracy without which there can be no political union.
The peoples of Europe, the citizens, no longer want decisions to be taken without them.
I am thinking here, for example, of the decision the Commission will have to take on the opening of future accession negotiations.
This crucial question has a bearing on the very nature of Europe and we therefore need to come out from behind the customary closed doors and hold a genuine debate.
Mr President-designate, the issues at stake, like the expectations, are immense and time is pressing, because the peoples of Europe will be called upon to vote on the European Constitution in the next two years.
Mr Barroso, please give the Catalans a chance to vote 'yes' to the European Constitution.
Our language is not official in the Spanish state, and that state does not recognise our right to self-determination.
While we wait for our rights to be recognised, however, we would be able to vote in favour of the European Constitution if the Catalan language were to be officially recognised.
If it is not, how can we vote in favour of a text that does not recognise the stateless nations - the Catalan countries, in our case - nor gives official status to a language such as Catalan, which is spoken by 10 million people?
We cannot accept that the candidate for the position of President of the Commission, Dr&#160;Durão Barroso, should be telling us to expect more of the same, despite the fact that we now have ten more Member States in a difficult economic and social situation, which means that we should be giving priority to social issues, and to an in-depth review of our economic and social policies, paying particular attention to the new Financial Perspectives and to a significant strengthening of them.
The formula that he is proposing continues to be based on the Lisbon strategy, but the only decisions taken there that have elicited a positive response have been liberalisation and privatisation.
This requires a review of economic and monetary policies, a halt to liberalisation, and a review of the Stability Pact, failing which we cannot fight poverty and ensure social inclusion and a high quality of life for the entire population.
This implies revisiting the Commission's mandate within the World Trade Organisation to defend fair trade, food sovereignty, European industry and jobs in particularly vulnerable areas, and in particular sensitive traditional sectors such as textiles, glass-making, the extractive industries and shipbuilding, which involves giving dignity to workers, adopting measures to promote equal rights and opportunities, and placing welfare, social progress, stronger democracy, cooperation and peace at the heart of decision-making on Community policies.
After Mr Joan i Maríhad spoken just now, the President said that Catalan was not an official language of the institutions.
Catalan is in fact an official language, but not, it is true, a working language.
That being the case, I crave indulgence for the honourable Member who spoke a few sentences in Catalan, since I myself spoke in Latin in this very House during the debate in which it was decided that Catalan would be an official language; Latin is neither an official language nor a working language but my words did nevertheless appear in Latin in the Minutes. &#160;&#160; The President was in fact right that Catalan, like Sorbian, a language spoken close to my Berlin constituency, is not an official language, neither an official language of the European Union nor a working language.
Mr Barosso, however, diplomatically avoided answering a question on his attitude towards future relations with Russia.
Undoubtedly, this would make relations between the European Union and Russia, and also with the European Commission, less hypocritical – to talk about vodka and caviar in the evening, but the following morning, to realise that Russia has banned imports of food from the European Union.
Unfortunately, at this point you are not the best player in the political game, but you are going to win.
The question is however, if you win, Mr future President, what will you do with that victory?
In your address you managed to touch upon issues such as terrorism, environmental degradation, an ageing population, regional and social asymmetry, the problem of long-term unemployment, the alienation of the public from the European project and issues relating to the approval of the Constitutional Treaty and the Lisbon strategy.
You also referred, by omission, to the feebleness of our Common Foreign and Security Policy, and were also wise enough to mention the serious problems we are going to have to confront as regards the diversity and complexity of a Europe of 25, and before long one of 27 or 28.
It is against this background that it is essential to nurture the idea that it is possible, in the face of all these challenges, to achieve consensus, to establish dialogue and to build bridges, and to do so without dogmatism or prejudice, while making available to everyone, rich or poor, large or small, new or old, the option of helping us to define relevant parameters and objectives for Europe.
I know your qualities, I know what you are capable of, and I know your determination, your common sense and your moderation.
Combined with your youth and your love of parliamentary debate, I am convinced that your term of office will usher in a new era in Europe, and a new partnership between Parliament and the Commission that is vital if Europe is to move forward, to carry on building and to assert itself.
I therefore have a question for you: I would like you to tell us in greater detail about your ideas for a relationship between a strong Commission and a European Parliament that we also wish to see becoming ever stronger. &#160;&#160; – Sorry, Mr President, for the confusion, but there are a lot of new people in the new Parliament.
Congratulations to you on your election as Vice-President and on promptly serving as President in this important debate today.
We take the view that the European Commission of the future can make an important contribution to the further development of a strong European foreign policy with its own emphases.
It is possible by combining the powers available to the Commission with those of the Council, and then the High Representative and the President of the Commission can of course play an important part in that.
In our understanding of these things, the European countries represent another tradition, and we advocate a broad-based security policy with a preference for civilian means, with military means always the option of last resort, and then only on the basis of decisions by the European Union.
In the context of a broader security policy, we want to advocate development, support to developing countries, fair trade and tackling not only insecurity, but also its causes.
I now come to what might be called the heart of the debate and to what is still a live issue for us in the Group of the Party of European Socialists; the President-designate of the Commission has not been able to convince us that he too is thinking in terms of a similar autonomous role for the European Union.
The overwhelming majority of the Socialist Group was opposed to the war in Iraq.
It subsequently appeared that the resolution to wage it was founded upon errors or incomplete information concerning weapons of mass destruction in Iraq or Iraq’s links with Al-Qaeda and other terrorist groups, and we can still read a lot about that from day to day in the newspapers and elsewhere.
We have also said what needed to be said about that over the past six months.
Mr Barroso, as Prime Minister of Portugal, played a major role by organising and hosting a summit in the Azores, thus giving the impression that he identified himself with the Americans’ approach, which we regard as unilateralist.
The question is whether he, on being faced with the same decision, would react in the same way, and whether that is his essential and fundamental conviction.
In dialogue with the Socialist Group, Mr Barroso drew attention to other European prime ministers who had also supported the American policy; it is of course relevant when assessing a candidate that politicians once pursued a policy, but his former fellow-prime ministers are not standing as president of the European Commission.
I hope he will understand that we want a President who can at least empathise with us in our views of the security policy for the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I too congratulate you on your election as a Vice-President of this Parliament.
In this, you are not the problem, but you could turn out to be the solution.
You could well, indeed, concede that things cannot go on the way they are, and that we have to find another way of doing our work.
A second question is whether we should rely on your words or your actions.
I have great respect for your actions; the sort of economic policy you operate – or operated – in Portugal is the sort that the EU needs.
Yet another question by way of conclusion: you talked about getting more women into the Commission, and I see that as a very good line to take.
Opinion polls show that people’s confidence in the EU and its institutions is declining in the majority of Member States.
There are two important explanations.
Firstly, the way in which the EU is developing means that political power is receding ever further from the people.
The new Swedish party, the June List, which I represent, stood for election on both these issues, and we have been given a powerful political mandate to combat the continued transfer of political power from the Member States to Brussels and to help ensure that European taxpayers’ money is used efficiently and honourably.
The ongoing centralisation and bureaucratisation of political power is in actual fact a threat to the future of Europe.
Europe’s fantastic economic, scientific and social successes have in large part come about through institutional competition between small political units seeking constructive solutions to issues.
The June List calls upon the Commission President to make the term of office that has now begun into an era of political decentralisation in which the institutions of the EU are cleaned up and made more efficient. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to congratulate the candidate, Mr&#160;Barroso.
You said that we, the 732 MEPs, are the voice of the people and then you said that unless we are a member of a group, we will have little opportunity to speak.
I also heard someone say that the Council must not be the Commission’s doormat and that the Commission and Parliament must not be the Council’s doormat.
We need to strengthen Europe’s political role, just as we need to strengthen the Christian values which unite us in Europe and fight for those social issues which, in my view, are the most important.
I will therefore welcome any action you take regarding these decisions and, in particular, regarding these social issues. &#160;&#160; Madam President, may I first of all say what a pleasure it is to see you sitting on the platform opposite me and congratulate you on your election.
The next five years will be full of challenges.
An unwavering commitment to the draft Constitution would be of great assistance to the Member States and their representatives who will have the enormous responsibility of presenting the draft to their fellow citizens with a view to getting their support for the text of the Constitution.
A Europe that works is a Europe which may perhaps do less, but which does a lot better, it is a Europe that makes progress, a Europe that knows how to manage its budget and that spends effectively, providing itself with the resources it needs for its policies.
Without penalising the old Member States, the budget must allow us to support the ten new countries and help to create the conditions for growth.
We are counting on you to preserve Europe’s regional policy.
At the same time, the European Commission will have to revitalise economic policy.
There must be open debate; our fellow citizens want to be directly involved.
Mr Barroso, I wish you success not only for tomorrow but especially for five years at the head of the Commission.
Parliament will be your ally if you know how to navigate while respecting our fellow citizens’ wishes. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Durão Barroso, on the long march towards European integration, you are appearing before this House to request the opportunity to lead its next phase.
I am not sure whether you have received a poisoned chalice, but you have taken a step forward in the Agramante’s camp still present in the Council, after several people have fallen victim during a debate which has taken place behind closed doors.
Now you must win a majority in this Parliament and that is the task you are embarking on now.
Firstly, you preside over a social democratic party which has been part of, firstly, the Liberal Group, and then the PPE-DE Group in this House.
I am not defending any ‘copyright’, but you will appreciate that this creates a degree of disorientation.
You will continue to be a candidate until the new Commission is proposed to us, until all the hearings of all the Commissioners take place and until a programme is presented to this House, with an investiture debate, in October.
Perhaps you will be given the opportunity, but you must be able to build a majority and the Socialist Group is absolutely essential to that majority. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, I would like to begin by congratulating you on your appointment.
Mr&#160;President-designate of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of June the people of Poland and members of our party were delighted to learn that you, Mr&#160;Barroso, had agreed to stand as candidate for President&#160;of&#160;the&#160;European&#160;Commission.
In Poland, I represent a group of several hundred thousand mainly small and medium-sized enterprises in my capacity as Deputy&#160;Chairman of the National&#160;Chamber&#160;of&#160;Commerce, a position I have held for some time.
This is not just any old moment, these are not normal circumstances, it is not just any old Commission you are going to lead over the coming years and there are at least three reasons for such an unusual situation.
The first reason is enlargement – I am not sure we appreciate that this will be the first Commission since enlargement.
The second reason is that five years ago, when the mandate of the previous Commission began, the horrendous terrorist attacks of 11 September, and those of 11 March in Madrid, had not yet taken place.
But in politics there are no breaks and in the European Union we cannot take any break or stop.
But that break must be replaced by reflection more profound than ever and which, at the same time, allows us to aim higher than ever, when it comes to dealing with the future of the European Union.
This afternoon, I believe there is a conclusion we all agree on: we have all said we must strengthen the European institutions and have all emphasised in particular that we must strengthen the Commission.
The question is how we can strengthen the Commission further.
I have no doubt that the strengthening of the Commission demands that the President of the Commission can count on the full support of the whole of this House and, for this reason, when we vote tomorrow on the appointment of this candidate, I would ask that, over and above personal considerations and ideological issues, we think of institutional stability. &#160;&#160; President-Designate, during the hearing before the Group of the Party of European Socialists, in reply to my question on foreign policy and, in particular, on the circumstances which led to your support for the decision in favour of unilateral intervention in Iraq, you said that, being a politician and not a technocrat, you had to give an opinion and take a stand at that time.
You strongly and repeatedly stressed this notion, including today.
Having said that you wish to give importance, prestige and autonomy to the Commission with respect to the Council and in partnership with Parliament, do you think that you can make this commitment now?
If you receive a positive vote from this House tomorrow, will this matter be included in the programme that you will put forward in October? &#160;&#160; Madam President, Candidate for the Commission Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake with tomorrow’s vote?
As many have already said, tomorrow is about our trust.
I would like to say loud and clear that I trust the candidate and I am sure that a majority in this House will be able to place the same justified confidence in him.
We are now entering a period where we will no longer be in a permanent Intergovernmental Conference but where we shall have to bring this European idea to life politically.
In that connection, I hope that you and the European Parliament will cooperate closely and there, too, I am confident that you will make that cooperation a success, because we will have a lot of questions to answer together.
It does not fit in with the Lisbon process of ‘increasing competitiveness’ and surely needs to be rethought.
But if you do not give that question priority by feeding into it all the matters we have raised in our groups: public services, tax harmonisation, social rights, etc., there will not only be injustice, inequality and unemployment, but, more than that, our fellow citizens who have benefited from the achievements of the last 50 years will abandon the very idea of Europe.
I confess I am still unsatisfied. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as I believe most speakers agree, following the European elections Europe is on trial.
Europe needs all its citizens if it is to prosper.
We have to invest in our people because we cannot have economic efficiency without social justice.
In the last Commission, Commissioner Kinnock did an excellent job on reforming the procedures of the Commission.
I would hope that if you are selected as President, Mr Barroso, you will ensure that his work is continued and finished so that we have a modern, accountable Commission that guarantees that we have proper probity at all levels. &#160;&#160; My dear Dr&#160;José Manuel Barroso, I would like to wish you a warm welcome in our own language and in a cordial spirit that reflects the many years during which you and Portugal's Socialists have been adversaries.
Nor is there any doubt about our pleasure in seeing one of our fellow countrymen occupying this post.
Firstly, because other Portuguese citizens, such as Commissioner António Vitorino, could be in this position, and, secondly, because our shared duty in this House – our duty and yours – is to represent the common interests of Europe's citizens.
What is at issue right now is your political programme for Europe, and where that is concerned, let us be clear that we differed with you as Prime Minister of Portugal on three fundamental and far-reaching issues: firstly, the war in Iraq; secondly the review of the Stability and Growth Pact; and thirdly the downgrading of the social dimension of the Lisbon agenda.
I would accordingly like to ask you very directly in what way your programme as President of the Commission differs in these three areas from your practice as Prime Minister, in such a way as to justify our taking a different view of your programme now than we did of your actions then. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Barroso, we all know that the EU faces enormous challenges over this five-year term.
We now need leadership and skill, more than anything, and I know that Mr&#160;Barroso represents these very things – leadership and skill.
Above all, his election also highlights, in the proper manner, the result of the EU elections within the context of the EU’s democratic system.
He also represents the small Member States and the peripheral regions, which is an excellent outward sign.
We nevertheless have to remember that our work – which is in the limelight – must be of an international nature, and not party- or institution-based.
We must also continue the process of bringing the Union closer to its citizens.
Above all else, the new Commission must make an effort to ensure that economic prosperity is increased, that new jobs are created and that competitiveness is improved, in accordance with the Lisbon Strategy.
With the election of Mr&#160;Barroso, this Parliament is showing the citizens of Europe that democracy work in an enlarged EU, and that together, the institutions of the Union will be able to move forward.
Mr&#160;Barroso, the Finnish press has described the role of President of the European Commission as the hardest job in Europe or perhaps the entire world.
In fact, you will be at the helm of a Europe which needs a policy centred on the balance between national and supranational authorities, capable of intervening effectively in multilateral fora and in distant locations within an enlarged Europe.
Mr&#160;Barroso, I am sure that you will be able to merge the interests of small and large countries, while also preserving an essential Mediterranean dimension to Europe’s identity.
Furthermore, we appreciated your ability to anchor the process of integration to our common Atlantic identity.
From global security to economic policy and the Middle East, the interests we have in common with our Atlantic partner cannot be forgotten.
Europe, however, must also devote itself to reforming decision-making processes and the institutions.
The pace of the economy in the globalised society requires this.
The European Constitution is already a move in this direction but, pending ratification by the Member States, we cannot and must not stand idly by.
Parliament, the Council and the Commission recently adopted an important interinstitutional agreement called ‘Better Lawmaking’ which, if fully implemented, will be able, among other things, to make dialogue between the institutions easier and more transparent and avoid pointless legislation, by making the most of alternative instruments such as self-regulation and co-regulation and setting definite timeframes for the transposition of legislation by the Member States.
To do so, it must constitute a strong team capable of being enterprising and independent.
We would like to extend our best wishes for your work and assure you that you can count on our strong, loyal support. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I think that the proposed President of the Commission is very much aware that the next Commission faces major challenges, not the least of which is enlargement by the addition of ten new countries and the need to integrate them into the EU.
It is above all the Commission that has to prove the value of the Constitution we await, for it plays a quite central role in it.
Although I was glad to hear that you plan to do this in the composition of the Commission from the word go, I do think that the Council will exercise overall control over this and that Parliament, too, the authority of which you emphasised from the word go, will defend the independence of the Commission and the full authority of its President.
I do indeed think that, in wanting to make enlargement real, we must play up solidarity between the EU’s countries and within the EU for all it is worth.
Take it from me, Mr President: I see the adoption of the Constitution as one of the priorities for the years ahead, one that we have to work on together.
I think it will be a help to you that it is now certain that this will be Javier Solana, and it seems to me important that there should be very good cooperation from the very outset.
If some people here have referred to you as being the second choice, remember that Jacques Delors was also a second choice, but that he was one of the best presidents we have had; that is what I wish for you. &#160;&#160; – (). – I would like to start by congratulating Mr Barroso for his nomination.
It is a great privilege for me to address this Parliament as one of the parliamentarians from Malta – the smallest Member State of the European Union – a country which, albeit the smallest, has already provedits European and Mediterranean vocation through its millenary history, and is now ready to continue its contribution as a member of the European Union.
People expect concrete results from us.
They expect the creation of new jobs; they also expect a higher standard of living.
It is a big challenge, and we have a great responsibility laid upon us, both as parliamentarians and particularly as the European Commission over the coming five years.
It is a big challenge, but it is one that I am convinced that we can overcome together.
And for this reason, Mr Barroso, I hope that you will find approval from this Chamber tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – The Socialist Party of Hungary, a new member country, sent me to the European Parliament.
Your responsibility is extremely big, as it will depend on you whether this unified political will comes into being or the same words will be used again to hide empty intentions.
I am convinced that questions put to you by my sub-committee colleagues are also your own questions.
There are many of those in my region and in my country.
If your answer is yes, then I would put it to you that the heart of Europe should not receive the new members only into its heart but also onto its shoulders. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I will not be able to answer all the questions in just five minutes.
I shall try to do that tomorrow in a more systematic way, but I would like to give you an idea at this point of my feelings about the questions that in some ways seem to me the most difficult and the most important.
Turning to Iraq, first and foremost, it is true that this issue divided us in Europe, that it created divisions between the countries of Europe and divisions within our countries, and even created divisions within the political families represented here.
I believe that in the case of Portugal, if I may reply to Mr Costa's question, we succeeded to some extent in overcoming that division when our Parliament recently managed to approve the essence of a resolution to join forces in relation to the most recent United Nations resolution.
I believe that it is now important for us to be united in Europe, and not just on the basis of the resolution approved unanimously by the United Nations Security Council, because I believe that all of us in Europe have a fundamental interest in the stabilisation of Iraq, in seeing a truly independent Iraq, an Iraq at peace with itself and at peace within the region.
Some honourable Members, however, link the issue of Iraq with other concerns, in particular relations between Europe and the United States, and European security and defence policy, to which I am firmly committed.
Firstly, as regards our relations with the United States, I would like to say that it is possible to be pro-European, as I am myself, and still advocate good transatlantic relations.
I believe that it is helpful and necessary for us to build a common security and defence identity for Europe.
I believe that is important and it was for that reason that as Prime Minister I advocated each and every step towards strengthening that European unity.
What is more, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I had the honour of signing some of the instruments through which Portugal committed itself to building that very same identity, and in particular our membership of Eurofor and of Euromarfor, which represented the first steps my country took towards actively participating in a common security and defence identity.
I have always defended the role of the Commission as a supranational institution, and as a truly communitarian institution.
We could end up with a group-based approach, with the Balkanisation of groups in the European Union, pitching the stronger against the weaker, the richer against the poorer, the centre against the remoter regions, and the large against the small.
The only solution is to adopt the Community method advocated by the founding fathers of the European Union – Jean Monnet, Robert Schuman, Konrad Adenauer, Alcide de Gasperi, Paul Henri Spaak, and many others.
That is why I said in my speech that although we are not going to change values, we can change our approach to implementing those values.
The Community method and the role of the Commission are accordingly essential and I therefore believe that the positive partnership between the Commission and the European Parliament that I mentioned earlier is important.
One eminent Member, Daniel Cohn-Bendit, advocated that Members should punish the Council, and should ‘shoot down’ its candidate for President of the Commission.
I wish to say that if you want to punish the Council, Mr&#160;Cohn-Bendit, there are other far more practical and less painful ways of doing it than to punish me.
However, the Commission could be your ally, Parliament's ally, and I have already said that I shall do everything to ensure that is the case, while respecting the competences of each institution.
I also tried to do that in my own country in relation to the Assembly of the Republic, our national parliament.
I can promise you faithful adherence to the principles of transparency mentioned here by various Members, among others by the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
I therefore believe that if I am elected we should forge a dynamic alliance between those at the forefront of the European project.
That is why I said that, although my party of course has the honour of belonging to one political family, I believe that the President of the Commission should not be the President for one political group, but that he should seek a consensus between all those who essentially share a belief in the same European project.
That is why, in response to some members of the Socialist Group and also of the Liberal Group, I wish to say that my approach is not a dogmatic one, nor is it a factional one.
But I once said that if we are to achieve our objectives in terms of social justice, which I rank more highly than any others, then we need to take immediate economic and financial action.
That is my vision for Europe.
Competitiveness is needed of course, but so are social cohesion and sustainable development, including environmental protection and a policy of European leadership in protecting the environment.
I have in mind not only solidarity between the different regions, so as to respond to the needs of the new Member States, but also solidarity between the various social groups and classes, paying special attention to the most disadvantaged.
