My thanks also to the honourable members of the Committee on Budgets and Temporary Committee on the Financial Perspectives for their contribution to the report on LIFE +.
LIFE + is the financial instrument for applying Community environmental policy proposed by the Commission for the period 2007-2013.
This proposal is a positive arrangement for financing the environment.
This safeguards greater flexibility for the Member States, so that they can deal with their most pressing environmental needs.
Thus the regional and local factors which often lead the way in the application of environmental legislation will be able to have their say on the planning and application of the programme.
However, the Commission considers that most spending on the environment can be better financed by the financing institutions which are very strong financially, by which I mean programmes for the Structural Funds and rural development programmes.
So far there have been three noteworthy developments in our efforts to safeguard the integration policy: firstly, the adoption on 21 June of the regulation on rural development; secondly, the strategic guidelines on rural development relating to the regulation, in which clear reference is made to Natura 2000, and thirdly, the strategic guidelines on regional policy which the Commission adopted last Tuesday and which concern the protection of nature and species.
These objectives coincide with the wishes expressed by Parliament and, through it, by European citizens, which is why I consider that the Commission proposal is the right proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly allow me, as rapporteur, to thank the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety as a whole for the work that it has done.
I should also like to thank its chairman for the support that he gave us in our work and, above all, the shadow rapporteurs, who really helped me to seek a compromise in order to propose something sensible and substantial.
Overall, I believe that we have succeeded in gaining recognition, beyond the confines of our committee, for the fact that words are no longer enough for the environment and that financial means are required, as they are for every other policy.
I should, moreover, like to point out that, during a debate this week, one of your colleagues, Commissioner, reminded us that we should not lose sight of the main issue.
The European Union is aware of the challenge that it has set itself.
It is therefore up to us, Parliament, to convince the Council and the Commission that, even in lean times, investing in the environment is, as it were, a prudent subscription to an insurance policy, indeed a life-insurance policy, against the threats weighing on our environment.
This report on LIFE + is without doubt very important since it concerns the sinews of war: it is a financial instrument.
With the new LIFE programme, the Commission is counting on the environment, as you explained, being integrated in the various policies.
This is a good thing, we cannot deny it, but we are not convinced of the usefulness of delegating environmental policies to the Member States.
On the other hand, the European Union has to support NGOs, because they are absolutely irreplaceable and because they must be able to continue to carry out their work, which, as you mentioned, is in everyone’s interest.
We waited precisely until the end of the discussions on the Structural Funds, on rural development, to find out whether in fact we had the full guarantees that Natura 2000 would be taken into consideration.
With regard to the Fund for Rural Development, we are very hopeful, but we know that it only concerns compensation, which is very positive because financial compensation is needed.
Firstly, this project has placed great emphasis on the management of natural resources.
Furthermore, I must say something else: we have created a market spirit for Natura 2000.
We believe that, in this case, we must imitate United States policy by creating banks for wetlands and banks for natural areas, so that the Member States can compensate proprietors, creating, shall we say, an area of exchange of ownership for the Natura 2000 zone.
LIFE&#160;+ and the LIFE programme constitute an extremely important part of our environmental policy, because they are the only budgetary tool that the European Union has released for its environmental policies.
Europe has done a great deal for environmental policies, but people often say to us, ‘You impose constraints upon us, but you do not release many funds to support us in implementing the policies concerned’.
The LIFE programme has already shown its effectiveness in many areas.
I would stress the need to use LIFE to breathe life into the major framework directives, such as the one on water or our programme to combat the greenhouse effect.
Mrs&#160;Isler&#160;Béguin is, however, right to say that the core issue of our debate is Natura 2000.
Furthermore, given that the Commission, since it was newly formed, has always been at pains to tell us that it would pay great attention to the views of Parliament, the wide agreement within Parliament on this issue ought to lead the Commission to support our points of view. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like, in my turn, to thank our rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Isler&#160;Béguin, for the quality of this collaborative work and her energetic commitment to this issue.
During the June part-session, our Parliament, in its resolution on policy challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged Union, sent out a very clear political signal for protecting the planet, nature and biodiversity.
It is essential to ensure the smooth operation of the Natura 2000 network, the core issue of this debate.
The experts in the Commission have, moreover, calculated that Natura 2000 will need EUR&#160;21 billion over seven years.
We therefore have to strengthen LIFE +, the specific financial instrument for the environment with which we have been equipped since 1992.
The first concerns the initial sum of EUR&#160;300 million, which is, of course, hugely insufficient.
The second criticism is as follows: I believe that the European Commission must not offload its responsibilities with regard to the environment.
The strategy of integrating the environment in all of the Union’s policies has its limits, Commissioner.
That is why the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe will support Amendments 42, 43 and 44.
It would appear that some Members expect a great deal of support for nature policy from the European Union.
I would therefore call for Member States to be given a greater role in funding and for them to be helped out only as and when EU funding is actually justified. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the G8 leaders in Scotland are exercised about the sustainability of our world.
The reserve, with its osprey centre, attracts some 100&#160;000 visitors a year and GBP 1.7 million a year and provides 87 jobs in a previously poor rural economy.
The Iberian lynx in Spain has been saved by Natura 2000.
In Brandenburg, where the great bustard population had fallen from 4&#160;000 in the 1930s to a few hundred, 9&#160;500 hectares of monoculture have transformed its prospects and also brought economic benefit to an economically depressed area.
On 8 June, Parliament voted for ‘a significantly strengthened LIFE + programme’.
I know that the budget will not be easy this year, but we pick up the proposal for a ring-fenced amount of EUR 21 billion over seven years in that resolution of 8 June.
LIFE III, with its three components of nature, environment and third countries, has been a success in all respects, but particularly perhaps in the Natura 2000 sites of LIFE Nature.
I hope that the Commission will respond supportively, constructively and imaginatively. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the intention is that LIFE + should be the sole financial instrument for the environment from 2007 onwards.
It is no bad idea to combine in one single environmental instrument the various programmes that have supported such environmental measures as actions within the scope of the Forest Focus Regulation and supported non-governmental organisations and local and regional authorities.
We know that, in order to be effective, energy policy must be implemented at ground level, throughout the EU and on a local basis everywhere.
Such monitoring will involve not only codecision by Parliament on the multiannual programmes, but also, and of necessity, evaluation at short intervals, in order to make it possible to make adjustments without delay.
The Commission’s proposal for the management of the Natura 2000 areas to be paid for out of the Fund is no bad idea either in view of what the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has seen of the problems inherent in such a – essentially competition with other objectives laid down in various funds.
Despite this House, yesterday, prompted by the Committee on Regional Development, having struck every single reference to Natura 2000 out of the Structural Funds Regulations, I do expect not only our Committee, but also the NGOs and the Commission, to take the initiative – or go on the offensive – in order to persuade people. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the LIFE + environmental programme is crucial for supporting the implementation and development of environmental policy.
Based on our successful experience with the current LIFE programme, LIFE + has to be the vehicle for assessing and monitoring conservation status, for drafting action plans on the recovery of species and for actions linked to the operation of the Natura 2000 European network.
Environmental policy, however, amounts to more than just Natura 2000.
That is why I am against Amendment 35, which proposes allocating 90% of the LIFE + programme to the funding of Natura 2000.
Finally, I should like to say that I share the rapporteur’s opinion that projects must continue to be selected at Community level to ensure that they provide European added value. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I believe that words truly need to be turned into deeds, because delivering speeches about saving the planet and sustainable development is something that we do constantly in this House and elsewhere.
That is why Europe absolutely has to display authority in what it wants and why it is crucial to provide for specific funding, inter alia, in Natura 2000.
Natura 2000 is an important policy that Europe wanted, that it has been difficult to persuade local elected representatives on the ground to accept, that has been difficult to understand and difficult to implement.
Commissioner, you ought to assist this Parliament in its financial negotiations with the Council.
That really would be regrettable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group feels proud and happy today with the report that has been handled so well by the rapporteur, Mrs Isler Béguin, and also by everybody whose work has enriched it.
Codesision is our strength, and this is inspired by the need to fulfil the environmental objectives that the European Union has always claimed are a priority.
The Commission is as aware as this Parliament of the difficulties caused by the financial perspective but, if you want me to tell the truth, I believe there are solutions that can be found through good will and decisiveness, as in this case.
Perhaps an increase in funding for the network must also be accompanied by a better redistribution of the necessary resources.
Since then we have seen a hopeful process with legislation and programmes that make our environmental priorities a reality.
It is worth it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, since 1992 LIFE – the Financial Instrument for the Environment – has been the major vehicle of European Community Environment policy.
The current LIFE III programme is due to finish at the end of 2006 when a new package, LIFE +, will be introduced as part of our new Financial Perspective on which we await a Council decision.
Where our shared environmental heritage is concerned, the financing must fit the policy, not vice versa.
It is extremely difficult to quantify in monetary terms the value of our natural boglands, our native species of flora and fauna and natural habitats and public amenities, such as parks and woodlands.
We bear equal responsibility for maintaining and strengthening our efforts to prevent biodiversity loss and environmental degradation.
Without adequate funding for LIFE +, the positive steps to address these problems since the introduction of the current programme in 1992 will be reversed.
Up to 125 000 jobs are supported in the EU 15 in nature protection related activities.
The Scottish Parliament estimates that landscape tourism contributes EUR 560 million to Scotland’s economy each year, much of this in economically depressed regions.
The money must be secure.
The current ‘integrated approach’ to financing environmental policy being proposed by the Commission, whereby funding will come from rural development funding and structural funds, worries me deeply and I think it simply will not work.
As I see it, the proposal’s most glaring defect is the failure to provide financially for the management of the Natura 2000 network during the period from 2007 to 2013, even though the Sixth Environment Action Programme gave high priority to, among other things, species diversity and the protection of species.
The Commission has also failed outright to put in place the clause ensuring proper management of the Natura 2000 networks, which is an essential condition for funding by the Structural Funds, and so we in this House need, by a convincing majority, to endorse the rapporteur’s approach, which entails integrating into the LIFE + programme the costs of implementing Natura 2000. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the proposal to integrate existing environmental support programmes into a single financial instrument, LIFE&#160;+, is justified since it provides a guarantee that actions will not be duplicated.
The aim of the LIFE&#160;+ programme is to safeguard funding for actions that will be ineligible for support under the EU’s other financial instruments.
At the same time, however, it is emphasised that co-financing for the Natura&#160;2000 network is only to be provided on a complementary basis, which means that support is to be provided under the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund.
I am concerned at the fact that whilst the concept of the Natura&#160;2000 network in Europe has evolved, this has not been backed up by an appropriate guarantee of funding for the creation and maintenance of this network.
No clear details have been provided regarding the principles according to which funding can be obtained for protection measures for Natura&#160;2000 sites between 2007 and 2013, and this will undoubtedly mean shortfalls in funding for the Natura&#160;2000 network.
In the context of the European Commission’s letter of 6&#160;January&#160;2005, which suggested that consideration be given to the possibility of extending the list of Natura&#160;2000 sites in Poland, which could mean that up to 20% of the country would be covered by such sites, a guarantee of separate funding for the establishment of the Natura&#160;2000 network has taken on even greater significance for Poland and other countries. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the LIFE&#160;+ Regulation is an outstanding piece of legislation.
The fact that it is a regulation means that it will be binding upon all Member States, and have greater force than any directives addressed to them.
This is particularly true for Natura&#160;2000, which is an issue that previous speakers have already touched upon.
Such a state of affairs would be intolerable.
The second point I should like to make relates to the funding of Natura&#160;2000.
This LIFE instrument, which first saw the light of day in 1992, is, however, something on which I very much want to congratulate the Commission, for in creating it, it fashioned a trailblazing programme for European environmental policy.
The important thing about it is that it was intended to implement the Birds Directive, the Habitats Directive and the Flora and Fauna Directive, and to provide the financial means whereby this could be done.
We are now discussing the new proposal, which is to cover the period from 2007 to 2013, and is also intended to help achieve the objectives of the EU’s Sixth Environment Action Programme.
It is important that this new programme should continue to guarantee financial support for the Natura network.
Increasing the budget tenfold over and above the recommendation made by the Commission is a tangible step towards realising the objectives of sustainable development and also serves the European Union’s strategic objective of halting the reduction of biological diversity by the year 2010.
The budget increase makes LIFE + a substantial independent instrument in European Union environmental policy.
In its present form, LIFE + has only been used to shore up ‘current financial gaps’ arising between structural funds and agricultural funds.
The promotion of nature protection objectives would, in this case, depend on critical domestic priorities and may be overshadowed by socio-economic objectives.
Both the structural funds and the Fund for Rural Development operate on the basis of allocation of funds to a specific applicant.
Member States need the European Union to provide a dependable and long-term financing strategy in order to ensure the protection of the network of Natura areas.
If decision-making is left solely to the Member States, the protection of objects of great natural value may be overshadowed by other domestic priorities.
It is essential that we all give our support to the amendments tabled by Parliament, in order to channel the Union’s resources towards the conservation of natural objects of European importance.
Many thanks. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I too welcome the Commission’s proposal for simplifying the funding and administration of the existing environmental programmes and, in LIFE +, combining them into one single financial instrument.
The assumption is being made here that the mere acquisition of a plot of land by an environmental organisation itself protects the environment, but what is at issue is not to whom the land belongs, but how it is managed; to put it another way, its management as a FFH area, a habitat for flora and fauna, has to be ensured and promoted, with the resultant tasks and costs being covered by LIFE +.
I am strongly opposed to the institutional support of non-governmental organisations; LIFE + must not be used to underwrite such bodies’ administrative costs, but to fund projects that are of practical benefit to the environment. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to take my turn in congratulating the rapporteur, Mrs Béguin, and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work which they have presented.
The deterioration in the environment and ever increasing environmental issues, often of a cross-border nature, make it necessary to change the pan-European and global approach.
The concept of protection of nature and biodiversity needs to be introduced as a basic feature in thematic priorities for the financing of the LIFE + programme, as a basic line of approach and actions in the new financing tool.
This programme will need to be in a position to finance other actions, such as Natura 2000, which no other programme can cover.
The Commission believes that the current environment programmes have served their purpose.
LIFE-Nature and LIFE-Environment have been excellent catalysts but, as set out in the mid-term evaluation of the LIFE programme, have done little for the development of environmental policy.
On 21 June the Agricultural Council adopted the Rural Development Fund Regulation.
This sets out that farmers and private forest owners can receive compensation for costs incurred and income foregone because of Natura 2000 actions.
The Council foresees a budget of EUR 82.75 billion to accompany the regulation.
Moreover, it is entirely possible for Member States to focus an even bigger share of their national envelope on Natura 2000 financing if they so wish.
The Commission is, therefore, delivering on the integration of the environment into other policy areas.
I should like to divide these amendments into three distinct blocks.
Many amendments concern Natura 2000, others set out more precisely what is already indicated in the text, for example, forest monitoring, networking, awareness-raising and NGO financing.
In addition, certain aspects, such as eco-innovation are clearly covered by other programmes, in this case by the competitiveness and innovation programme.
Secondly, on procedure: the Commission could accept some of the amendments in principle, for example those relating to assessing the impact quality of the programme.
Lastly, on the budget, which is the most complex and difficult proposal for the Commission to deal with: the report on LIFE + increases its proposed budget by EUR 21 billion, but an amendment has been tabled to reduce this proposal to EUR 7.35 billion.
In conclusion, the LIFE + proposal offers a flexible financial instrument for the environment.
Again I have to repeat that, if we had this additional EUR&#160;7.35 billion, we would ensure that it would be spent through the relevant funds for Natura 2000 and the other environment programmes.
I must underline that, with the integrated approach, we are going to use the structural funds, the Cohesion Fund, and the Agricultural Fund in order to get the money we need.
The guidelines that were voted on last week and two days ago will really help us in this respect.
This will also help greatly with programmes which the Member States have an interest in financing as they have a legal obligation to finance projects relating to Natura 2000. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place presently, at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the report (A6-0193/2005) by Tokia Saïfi, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on textiles and clothing after 2005 (2004/2265 (INI)). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, Commissioner, without implicating you, I can only regret the fact today that neither Mr&#160;Mandelson nor Mr&#160;Verheugen are present at this debate on an issue that has been at the forefront of the news for several months.
Commissioner, the European textile and clothing industry has a future and trade interests to defend.
Furthermore, in the long term, the European Union and the national authorities must contribute to developing measures that will make it possible to capitalise on the production and sales potential of European manufacturers, in addition to ensuring that fair trade rules are respected on the international textile and clothing market.
From that perspective, and with the aim of remaining competitive in this new trading environment, free access to third-country markets is a vital factor in the drive for growth.
It is also crucial, and this motion says so, to protect our European know-how, our European added value.
Similarly, it is necessary to establish ethical trade based on production processes that respect the environment, health, and labour standards.
Finally, in order to respond to the slowdown in the European textile industry and to guarantee its future and its competitiveness against the US and Asian regional blocs, we have to support the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean production zone in the textile and clothing sector.
In parallel with these trade measures, the European Union should implement a transitional practical plan to assist restructuring and retraining for the entire sector, with a view to helping textile-producing regions and safeguarding the future and competitiveness of the sector on international markets.
Commissioner, the European Commission needs to study in detail the points made in this motion and develop the recommendations made therein by introducing practical measures.
Furthermore, on behalf of the European Parliament, I call for the Commission to give a quarterly report, before the Members of this institution, on all of the recommendations issued in this resolution and on the actions that it has undertaken.
That is what I call for today for textiles and clothing, a key sector of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I should, however, like to say that if Peter Mandelson is not here, it is precisely for very good reasons that are, I might add, related to the matter in hand.
As you know, these negotiations have a direct bearing on the textile sector.
That said, I would like to thank Mrs&#160;Saïfi for her excellent report and I welcome the draft resolution.
It supports the efforts already made by the Commission to assist the European textile and clothing sector in also taking up the challenges set by the abolition of quotas since January 2005.
I am now going to address the principal trade issues raised in the draft resolution.
Following months of negotiations, we are pleased to have reached an agreement with China, which guarantees a more moderate growth in imports in the main categories of products.
The broad support given to the Commission’s approach by the Member States indicates that a negotiated agreement was certainly the best means of confronting the influx of Chinese imports, and this for various reasons.
This agreement is therefore in everyone’s interests.
The question of whether we will refrain from taking safeguard actions in the future and on other products remains.
The European Union has not relinquished its legal rights, but it is clear that we have entered into a transaction.
The action plan on market access, debated by the High-Level Group on 14 June 2005, should be officially adopted and implemented with the emphasis on intellectual property issues.
Increased convergence of market access conditions in the textile and clothing sector is also required.
The new system of generalised preferences, which offers preferential access to developing countries, was adopted on 27 June and will enter into force on 1 January 2006.
It excludes any country recording an annual growth in exports greater than 20%.
That clause is the only concession in a global stability agreement that will remain in force until the end of 2008.
Since the 1970s, textile products have entered the EU market exempt from customs duties and, in parallel, the Mediterranean countries have progressively abolished customs duties on EU exports.
Conclusions: the Member States overwhelmingly supported the agreement reached with China; the industry obtained an additional transitional period to improve its competitiveness both at international level and within the Union, and the Commission is going to monitor the programme of positive actions regularly and thoroughly with a view to securing the future of the European textile and clothing sector.
With regard to your request for regular updates, the Commission will keep Parliament regularly informed of the implementation of its initiatives.
That said, I am not going to go so far as to promise you a report every three months, but I believe that it would indeed be quite reasonable for reports to be made to Parliament on a regular basis. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, the import of textile sector goods from China is the first stage of a new phenomenon, which marks the start of an inexorable invasion of Chinese products into European markets.
Textiles are the first stage, and other sectors of production will follow.
Let us be clear: Europe must compete with parts of the world where products are manufactured by workers earning the lowest salaries.
Yet Europe cannot compete – indeed no region can compete – with parts of the world where the currency is kept artificially undervalued, where depreciation on investments is not paid, where energy costs are not paid, where environmental rules are not observed, where slave or child labour is used, and all of this with the collaboration of the national authorities of the country in question.
The EU needs to reconsider its approach to talks on international trade agreements, so as to increase pressure to strengthen corporate social responsibility and to encourage strict compliance with International Labour Organisation rules and conventions, and international conventions on the environment and human rights.
These principles must form part of EU bilateral and multilateral trade agreements.
But, secondly, we are calling for practical support for speeding up the restructuring of companies in order to increase competitiveness and in order to guarantee their future within the new global framework.
In order to fulfil these objectives, we will need a European textile plan that includes aid for restructuring and specific resources within the framework of the Union’s funds.
The EU must support this sector as an industry, both at national level and across the Community as a whole.
The prime concern of the so-called memorandum of understanding concluded between the Commission and China on 10&#160;June&#160;2005 is to legitimise the current situation, with its devastating impact on the sector, especially in countries depending on it, and this is something that we find unacceptable.
As organisations involved in the sector have said, on the basis of data provided by the Commission, what was agreed in the memorandum has led to exports increasing from 49% in 2004 to the 318% projected for 2005, a far cry from the 8, 10 12.5% figures announced.
Furthermore, by 20&#160;June, reported exports from China had already exceeded the 10 June agreement for almost all products.
The Commission and the Council have acted in a way that has clearly demonstrated their lack of commitment to defending this European industry.
That is essential because millions of citizens have been turning to us in recent weeks and calling on us to act on these issues.
We cannot ignore their impatience, and at times anger, which is linked to the feeling of living in an era in which the phenomena of globalisation are in the end governed by the United States, used by large countries such as India and China, and paid for, in various ways, by developing countries and by Europe.
I will conclude by stating that we would have liked more clarity on other points, for instance the inclusion of an active strategy for consumer awareness and more precise words with regard to the immediate introduction – and I am pleased that the Commissioner said it – of a mark of origin for all textile and clothing goods, precisely in order to protect and revive one of the strengths of our production.
We are talking here about what businesses, their managers and workers, are fundamentally for, and so I call on them to face up to this challenge. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I shall start by commending Mrs Saïfi on her outstanding work.
The issue before us is the need to draw up and implement a trade and industry strategy to ensure the viability of the European textiles and clothing industry in the context of the major opening up of the international markets.
For such a strategy to succeed, it will require both defensive and more proactive measures to be adopted.
The defensive measures relate to the need to help to regulate international trade in the sector, and in this regard, we welcome all initiatives aimed at ensuring reciprocal conditions of access to markets and at invoking all ethical, social and environmental clauses guaranteeing such proper regulation of the international markets.
Such proactive measures entail the EU adopting a more aggressive industrial policy for this sector, which is a hugely important sector.
This is a sector that must be opened up, and that must strengthen its capacity to compete in international markets.
Yet we are only talking about regulation of international trade in this sector that has very specific characteristics.
It is essential that this take place. &#160;&#160; .
Mills that once employed thousands now employ in the very low hundreds.
That change started in the 1980s, when changing conditions demanded computer-generated production processes and the longer-term efficiencies that they produce.
The report, as finalised by the Committee on International Trade, is one that I am able to recommend to this House.
The World Bank and the World Trade Organization predict that as a result of the abolition of all quotas China’s share of world trade in textiles and clothing will rise from 17% in 2003 to over 50% by 2010.
Some argue that to date China’s imports have mostly grown at the expense of imports from other third countries which have seen their share of the EU market decrease, but it is already very clear that the EU textile and clothing industry is experiencing significant pressure.
According to the European apparel and textile organisation, Eurotex, the sector could risk losing 1&#160;000 jobs a day and up to a million jobs before the end of 2006.
I welcome the steps that the Commission has finally taken to address the problem but I wonder what makes them so confident that a few years’ breathing space will really make any long-term difference.
The Commission has also failed to acknowledge that this challenge is a systemic one, not a one-off sectoral one.
As Mr Karim has just said, we already know that there are many other sectors that are about to cause us concern in terms of Chinese competition.
In 2000 textiles and clothing accounted for 95% of all Bangladesh’s industrial goods exports.
The sector employed nearly 2 million workers in Bangladesh, 1.4 million workers in Pakistan.
It is very unfortunate that their appeal fell on deaf ears, because China’s deflationary pressures are already driving down wages, pushing global suppliers to reduce their workers’ rights and conditions in a bid to remain competitive.
The challenge posed by China raises some fundamental questions about the logic and direction of free trade itself and it demonstrates the destruction that happens when a country has not just a comparative advantage but a more or less absolute advantage in so many areas.
The old theories about free trade always being a win-win arrangement are shown to be fundamentally flawed and therefore the Commission urgently needs to undertake more research in order to understand these new trends better and formulate appropriate policy approaches.
Not even the stay of execution until 2008 provided for by special safeguard clauses will solve the problem; it will do no more than alleviate it.
The only chance of a solution lies in the complete recasting of the EU’s trade policies.
A fair balance of interests implies the promotion of trade where it is rational and not an end in itself, alongside the maintenance and promotion of local production and regional economic cycles, not only in our own regions but also in developing countries.
This also involves something for which my own group has called, namely a commitment on the part of the European Union to improved working conditions and workers’ social security entitlements, as also to high environmental standards both in our own industry and in the production systems of our trading partners.
The old mandate, dating back to 1999, has failed twice, in Seattle and Cancún, and it will fail again in Hong Kong.
I endorse the rapporteur’s demand for targeted support for research and development in the textile sector, where priority should be given to the development of safe, chemical-free textiles by way of the consistent application of the principle of mutual recognition, wholly in the spirit of REACH.
Alongside spectacular growth in the Chinese textiles exports, there is a deep crisis in the textiles sector within the European Union and in the developing countries including Bangladesh, Cambodia and Laos.
I share the rapporteur’s concerns about the considerable growth in the quantity of Chinese textiles on the European market, and call on the Commission to closely monitor the implementation of the bilateral agreement between the European Union and China between 2005 and 2008.
The Commission must continue the dialogue with Beijing to make it clear that a liberalised world market is dependent on a level playing field if it is to function.
The Commission must actively pursue a policy aimed at improving working conditions in China.
That is not only vital for the Chinese workers, but also for textile workers in neighbouring countries.
As a result of the Chinese expansion, textile companies in those countries are forced to reduce production costs still further in order to remain competitive internationally.
The Commission must clearly map the opportunities and threats within the global textiles sector without import quotas and formulate clear policy for the European textiles sector after 2008.
Total liberalisation, however, will only come about in 2008.
Suitable penalties today need to be laid down, such as putting a ban on trade with the European Union for a certain period of time for all of those found guilty of illegally importing goods or of importing counterfeit goods, and who are thus implicated in a crime, the severity of which must be judged in terms of its repercussions on European society as a whole, not only on producers, but above all on consumers.
It is the Commission’s responsibility to implement strategies providing vital support for modernisation and enabling businesses to confront, in an informed way and with a clear outlook, a path that is still an uphill climb, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises.
We are not only protecting an important EU sector of production, but we are also protecting the right of consumers to have access to safe and quality products, and the right of workers to know the true prospects for their future and to have the social clauses implemented with respect for human rights.
The European Union has to forcefully say to the rest of the world that there can be no free market without fair competition, and that in order for competition to be fair, the common rules must be respected. &#160;&#160; – Several Members are addressing the Presidency with regard to the serious events currently taking place, of which you may be aware, involving a series of explosions on the London transport network.
I should simply like to say to them that the Presidency and the whole of Parliament are, of course, extremely concerned by what is happening.
There has been yet another explosion only a few minutes ago.
In the meantime, I was very keen to make this announcement to you, and to say that our Parliament is obviously very concerned about what is taking place.
I therefore propose that we continue our debate whilst awaiting further information. &#160;&#160; Mr President, important as this debate is, it pales into insignificance when compared with the atrocious terrorist attacks in my capital city today.
I would like to join, I am sure in the name of all in this House, in utterly condemning that terrorism and in expressing condolence and sympathy to those who have been injured and killed.
Turning to this subject, Northern Ireland, like many parts of Europe, once boasted a vibrant and large textile industry.
Since trade policy was foolishly handed over to the exclusive competence of the EU, the plain truth is that Member States are powerless to act in the face of cheap imports ravaging their textile industry.
Generally, the Commission needs to be much more robust with China than it has been hitherto. &#160;&#160; –Mr&#160;Allister, Parliament, which, I believe, in its entirety supports the condemnation of terrorism that you have just made, also expresses every sympathy for the injured, since at present we still do not know whether there have been any fatalities.
What has happened, therefore, is certainly no coincidence.
Let us then condemn these acts in the strongest possible terms. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too should like to express my sympathy to all the victims.
Since 1 January 2005, WTO members can no longer impose quotas on textile and clothing imports.
The impact of this measure on the European market has proven to be enormous, both for importers and producers.
It is a good thing that the Commission has engaged in dialogue as a means of finding a solution to this dilemma, for by doing so, it has given the European producers some breathing space – no more than that, and nor can it be more than that, for the WTO does not allow any more and is not expected to change its position.
We need a strategic response to the problems in the long term, because the European textiles and clothing sector, and not that sector alone, has a structural problem.
There are many products that are, or can be, produced more cheaply in China, or maybe in other countries too.
Too little consideration, moreover, is being given to the interests of importers and producers who, in response to the post-2005 situation, have entered into financial commitments, sometimes major ones.
My compliments to Mrs Saïfi. &#160;&#160; Mr President, over the last three years alone, over USD 20 billion was invested in China’s textile and clothing industry, much of it even coming from our own industries, and its capacity increased by 50%.
Things have come to such a pass in China that the country is competing with itself; social security rules are being cut back and businesses are being discharged from their social obligations.
However, this will definitely not stop China, and Europe will have new competitors.
There is a need for an analysis and long-term development forecast of EU industrial sectors, taking into account the appearance of new market participants and the division of markets.
Deaths have already been confirmed, and many people have suffered terrible injuries.
On behalf of Parliament I want to express our condolences to all those who are suffering the consequences of these barbaric acts.
As President of Parliament and a citizen of a country that experienced only last year the horror of this kind of multiple attack, I want to send, on behalf of us all, a message of solidarity to the British people.
You may recall that the European Parliament last year rejected a similar agreement with the United States on grounds of both substance and procedure.
The agreement was signed nevertheless and this House subsequently took the Commission and the Council to court.
However, the Commission chose the identical procedure as it did in the case of the agreement with the United States.
I propose that the first part be adopted.
So ‘and’ should be changed to ‘or’ in the English version – the original version – and then in all the other language versions. &#160;&#160; – That concludes voting time. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to make a practical proposal: we were unable to vote on Mrs&#160;Saïfi’s report on the textile industry this morning and I know that it is scheduled to be put to the vote this afternoon.
I suggest postponing the vote to the next part-session. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I think Mr Wurtz has got it absolutely right; what matters is not that we have not yet brought the debate to a conclusion, for that is in order.
What matters is that, instead of holding the vote today, we should wait until the next part-session, which will be in September, and vote then.
I genuinely regret that. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I had asked to speak even before the declarations of vote on the order of business.
In that case, we would have to include in the closing vote another vote on the motion for adjournment, for it was, or so I believe, irregular to vote on that in the middle of a debate. &#160;&#160; .
Europol is extremely important to European citizens and to the European Parliament.
It is important we support the work of Europol, but that, in turn, the Council understand the urgent need for accountability and transparency in Europol's core work.
At present we have not yet achieved this level of accountability. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I just wanted to make it clear that I twice voted against Amendment 43 when we voted on the Isler Béguin report, not out of any ignorance of the content or of the proposal by the Committee of the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, but because we should ask ourselves the fundamental question of whether individual committees should now, while we are in the middle of a debate on the financial perspectives, be able to adopt resolutions that go against what we resolved in relation to the Böge Report.
We will only have any clout in our negotiations with the Council if we, no matter how legitimate the individual committees’ opinions may be, do not, in anticipation of the decision on the financial perspectives, sabotage the basis on which our decisions are arrived at.
It is for that reason, bearing in mind our negotiations on the financial perspectives, that we have voted against. &#160;&#160; Mr President, having voted against the Isler Béguin report, I wish to make clear that I am in favour of protecting the environment and also of the financial settlement, which is absolutely necessary.
The report adopted today improves considerably on the Commission’s proposal, by introducing, with improved funding, the nature and biodiversity component, which covers the creation, preservation and management of Natura sites, (the network of the most important nature sites in the EU), thereby helping to achieve the objectives aimed at halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010 and beyond.
The amendments that have been tabled clarify the objective of the LIFE + project.
There are other key areas that we must not overlook, such as people, economic needs and development needs.
In this context, I broadly share the concerns that Parliament has expressed both in committee and in plenary debate, especially given that the common agreement is a reasonable one.
It represents a decisive step in addressing the sensitive issues of global security and the fight against international terrorism, of which we have seen another lamentable example today.
I am delighted that, unlike the USA, Canada has a legislative data protection system, including supervision by an independent data protection Commissioner.
I support Mrs in ’t Veld’s outstanding report and its proposals, and I agree that we need to wait for the Court of Justice’s ruling on the USA PNR case. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I voted in favour of the resolution on the political situation and independence of the media in Belarus.
I am grateful to colleagues from different political parties and different political groups who supported this resolution.
One of these is rightly Belarus, where events over a number of years are cause for serious concern.
This idea lies at the root of the concerns expressed in the resolution that was adopted in this House and to which I gave my full support. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that within our Europe we will never again have to witness a war against the sovereignty of a State.
This was the worst case of genocide in Europe since the Second World War.
It is a diplomatic power, in view of its permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council and its diplomacy and cooperation policy of helping developing countries without imposing any kind of democratisation process; far from it in fact.
Our prime objective is to ensure that China becomes a democracy.
No democracy poses a threat to us, whereas a military, diplomatic and demographic power with huge economic strength and without democratic checks and balances might pose a medium- or long-term threat. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was unable to support the conclusions of the resolution on landmines, although, as someone who has been involved in development cooperation, I share this concern and I regard the use of landmines in developing countries as a great tragedy.
The new systems are not in any way less lethal instruments of death than the current land mines.
We would, however, have preferred it if the observers were to join us in this House one year prior to accession, as once did the observers from the ten new Member States.
There would have been an opportunity, when we moved the debate on Monday, to inform the House that its President had already, and without our knowledge, extended the invitations.
This state of affairs has prompted us to withdraw our motion and both the changes to the vote for which we had asked.
As democrats, we will of course respect the majority that has resulted from it; we will welcome the observers and look forward to working with them. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I voted in favour of the resolution on the admission of observers from Bulgaria and Romania to the European Parliament.
I believe that that is an extremely important step forward towards the day marking the full membership of these, the last two ex-Communist states, which, in my opinion, ought to have been accepted with the other eight countries on 1 May 2004.
The terrible news that we received a short while ago from London prompts me to say that, if all of the European Member States remain united, we will be able to defend ourselves far better from the insane attacks against democracy, as is happening at this very moment in London. &#160;&#160; Mr President, further to what has been said by our group chairman, I would like to say that I abstained from voting on the resolutions on Romania and Bulgaria, as the fact that the President of this House had already, on Friday, sent a written invitation to the observers meant that neither resolution actually has a procedural basis any more.
It is most important therefore that a stable and broad-based coalition Government, with strong elements of continuity, is put in place as soon as possible to implement the necessary programme of modernisation and reform with urgency and effectiveness. &#160;&#160; We shall continue with the debate on the report by Mrs Saïfi, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on textiles and clothing after 2005 [2004/2265(INI)] (A6-0193/2005). &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, allow me first of all, because we are resuming this debate in very distressing conditions, to offer my sincere condolences to the families of the victims of the attacks that have taken place in London, the terrible consequences of which we are learning minute by minute.
To return to our debate, the major importance of which was stated this morning, my group, through Caroline Lucas’s speech, has stressed the extent to which it supports the series of temporary measures that are being proposed.
That said, I should like today to highlight certain points that appear to me to be essential.
The first concerns two paragraphs in the report that seek to minimise the scope of the REACH Directive, and which we consider to be totally unacceptable.
That systematically results in a social and environmental disaster.
I am also thinking of the Metaleurop affair, which was the subject of a major debate in this House, and which caused the inhabitants of the region to lose their jobs, their health and their soil, unusable for years.
This attack against the REACH Directive is therefore entirely misplaced, all the more so since it is expected that its effect on the textile and chemical industry in general will be to foster and drive the capacity for innovation.
Chinese workers work between 10 and 12 hours per day and their accommodation and food costs are often deducted directly from their wages.
The decision to abolish the quotas was taken 10 years’ ago with the agreement of all of the governments.
However, can the general interests of Europe be reconciled with the specific interests of the City: invest in China, Turkey or elsewhere?
After introducing a moratorium on the lifting of quotas, the Commission is duty bound to boost and assist research and development and training efforts in this sector.
The Union should take measures to prevent imports of goods produced by children or slave labour or by workers denied their freedom to participate in trade union activity, and to impose a tax on social dumping.
Finally, emerging countries should be given assistance to develop their internal markets. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, having congratulated the rapporteur, Mrs Saïfi, I would like to note for the Commission's benefit specific points of dialogue, agreement and/or disagreement with regard to the strategically important European textile and clothing sector.
I am in favour of opening up markets; I am against neo-protectionism, but in favour of the principle of reciprocity.
I am in favour of international competition, but against all forms of its distortion, in favour of free but balanced trade, but against infringements of intellectual and industrial property rights, against imitations and piracy and against aggressive practices of economic, social and ecological dumping.
I am in favour of agreed solutions with China and memoranda of understanding but, at the same time, against the fragmentary approach being taken to aggressive Chinese exports to Europe.
I am against what is still, to a large extent, a closed and non-transparent market in China, the maintenance of high import barriers, the application of unfair practices and the lack of adequate cooperation on fundamental investigations into dumping practices.
I am in favour of the immediate implementation of the Euro-Mediterranean trade zone on the basis of the principle of reciprocity.
I am in favour of adequate Community financing to strengthen research and innovation, especially in the less advantaged areas of the European Union.
I would like to highlight the important role this House has played in this respect.
If we succeed in this, we will also be able to find another way to respond to this development and make the world rather more socially responsible and cleaner. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this debate, which is unfortunately being conducted in a rather deserted Chamber, is important because it relates to one of the most significant sectors for European industry and therefore for the economy and citizens of Europe.
It is a sector that has been going through a serious crisis for some years now; the crisis has now been accelerated by the introduction of new trade agreements and the fall of many customs barriers, but the sector had already been experiencing great difficulties for a long time.
It is an important sector in terms of volume of business, the number of workers, its distribution in various European countries and its particular concentration in certain regions.
Despite this criticism, however, we welcome the action taken by Commissioner Mandelson, whom we invite to oversee not only the agreement reached and its implementation, but also what is happening with regard to other categories of products.
I refer in particular to employment, to professional training, to credit assistance, and to all of those innovations that can help such an important sector for Europe to remain that way. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, dark clouds have hung over the future of the textile and clothing sector ever since Europe and the nation States have been subjected to the dictatorship of the World Trade Organisation, have been enslaved by the free market and the rule of finance over the economy and politics, and have therefore assented to globalisation, which has also often been glorified in this House.
That is why our present responses to this issue will serve other areas of our industry in the future.
We cannot accept the deregulation of international trade without concerning ourselves with the related human, economic and environmental consequences.
A case in point is the textile sector where the end of quotas was dreaded and where there have been countless company restructurings, indeed outright shutdowns, in the regions in which this industry is still very prominent.
The introduction of safeguard clauses, the fight against counterfeiting and the supplying of aid for research and information provision are all helpful roads to go down, but we cannot stop there.
In paragraphs 18 and 24 of her report, Mrs&#160;Saïfi rightly emphasises the need to combat all forms of modern slavery and forced labour, as well as the exploitation of children.
Indeed, it will never be possible for our modern economy, based on, among other things, respect for human dignity, to compete faced with such abuses.
It is now necessary to monitor the implementation of the safeguard clauses and to evaluate the effects of these measures.
Fellow Members have already said this, but the current crisis in the textile sector was foreseeable, and crises in other sectors of industry are foreseeable in the context of a globalised economy.
We must all work with ingenuity and tenacity to safeguard the textile, clothing and leather industries, for the lessons we shall learn from this crisis will, in the long run, help us to maintain and develop other sectors of the European economy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the future of textiles and clothing after 2005 without doubt presents a complete picture of the new economic and trade realities at global level.
Imports from China have increased on a worrying scale, particularly following the definitive abolition of import quotas in January 2005.
As a consequence, the EU textile and clothing sector finds itself under unprecedented pressure.
In Italy, 24&#160;000 jobs were lost in 2004 and over 66&#160;000 in the last three years.
The current scene and the way it is likely to develop, however, dictate a more prudent approach, aimed at protecting European industry in the face of unbalanced and destructive competition.
The following actions need to be implemented urgently: approving without delay – as Commissioner Michel stated in this House this morning – the proposal for a regulation for the compulsory marking of origin of goods imported into the European Union; laying down industrial policies aimed at providing support to the sectors most exposed to international competition, including through the use of the Structural Funds; strengthening the trade protection instruments available to European businesses, including anti-dumping measures – as has been done for leather shoes – and anti-subsidy measures as well as the safeguard clauses; making the fight against counterfeiting a European priority, by supporting Commissioner&#160;Frattini’s initiatives; and steering the Commission’s choices towards bilateral agreements.
To conclude, I call for a review of the position on the new policy on chemical substances – the REACH Directive – particularly in order to guarantee the competitiveness of small- and medium-sized enterprises. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, first of all, many thanks to our fellow member, Mrs&#160;Saïfi, for her excellent initiative and her report.
That is part of what respect for competition means.
It would, however, be a mistake for our national industries not to react, faced with China.
It is therefore extremely important to ensure that the High Level Group’s recommendations are properly applied and to be vigilant when it comes to properly implementing the Shanghai agreements. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the recent EU-China agreement is a positive development and we must acknowledge the important contribution made by Commissioner Mandelson to the final outcome.
That is why the European Union must develop the structural policies and Structural Funds for the textile industry, develop the Seventh Framework Programme for research and development, create a specific Community programme for the development of the textile and clothing sectors, dynamically develop the institutional possibilities offered by the WTO to overturn China's social and environmental dumping and combat the problem of child labour by taking, where necessary, specific defensive trade measures, by safeguarding and defending free and equal access to third country markets and pure competition for European products, by defending consumer rights, by combating piracy and imitations and protecting intellectual property rights and by taking initiatives for a new integrated cooperation agreement with China to replace the 1985 cooperation agreement, which has basically been overtaken by international developments.
I should like to take advantage of Commissioner Michel's presence here to finish by saying that the Commission will also need to step up its investigation into uncontrolled imports of Chinese shoes, which have created serious problems in European countries such as Greece. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like firstly to express, on my own behalf and that of the Commission, our sincere condolences to the victims, and to the families of the victims, of the atrocious and barbarous acts that have taken place in London.
I should also like to express my complete solidarity with the British authorities.
That is already the case with the draft resolution, even if a number of people consider that still further steps could be taken, for example when it comes to social norms, protection against China or industrial restructuring.
Like the majority of those who follow these issues, she thinks that the agreement with the Chinese will allow European industry some breathing space between now and 2008 and that this agreement is therefore good in itself.
These clauses would therefore only be applied if this were really justified, something that does not seem to me to be the case, precisely because the agreement with China covers the most sensitive products, that is to say almost half of the Chinese textile sector liberalised in January 2005.
It therefore protects European manufacturers but, until 2008, also stabilises importers’ stocks.
Allow me to say a few words about respect for social standards on the part of developing countries.
I would say in reply to Mr&#160;Silva&#160;Peneda that, although the European Union and the Commission actively promote such standards, developing countries criticise us on this subject, interpreting our demands as a form of protectionism in disguise.
Developing countries constitute the vast majority of ILO members and reject the link between trade and social standards.
If he had been able to be present in the House this morning, my colleague in charge of trade, Peter&#160;Mandelson, would have certainly explained how, in Turin on 26&#160;May 2005, he intervened along these lines within the framework of a meeting organised jointly with the ILO.
Implicit in the draft resolution is the need to give priority to the Euro-Mediterranean zone, particularly in relation to Asia.
The Commission largely shares this point of view.
Developing trade between the two banks of the Mediterranean should help the development of this region and partly resolve the serious problems, such as immigration, that are common to the north and south of the area and that extend beyond the problems relating to textiles.
There are other priorities: Africa, in connection with which I would refer you to the G8, meeting today in Scotland; the Least Developed Countries; and the poor countries of Asia.
The Commission therefore agrees with Mrs&#160;Saïfi on this point: a number of comparative advantages need to be maintained in favour of those to whom the European Union intends to give preference.
I would, moreover, take this opportunity to invite Parliament to help the Commission put pressure on the Council in order to speed up the adoption of the protocols in question.
Finally, it should be noted, on the question of trade preferences, that, since this year, the European Union has withdrawn most of its trade preferences from China.
This negative priority is perfectly in keeping with the spirit of the draft resolution.
Mr&#160;Zingaretti, in particular, referred to the trade protection measures.
If third countries subsidise their exports, there are responses available.
In fact, the European Union has a whole arsenal of responses available to it.
These include antidumping duties or anti-subsidy measures.
I can assure you that these measures are taken very seriously by these two countries.
Since July 2004, a new arrangement is in force enabling companies to ask for the customs authorities to confiscate goods likely to be counterfeit.
A lot therefore remains to be done in this area.
On the subject of intellectual property, which is a very sensitive subject in the textile sector, recent years have been characterised by a veritable explosion in statistics.
It must simply be pointed out that there is not a single clause along these lines in any preferential trade agreement.
I do not think it right to suggest things that are untrue or to allow them to be said.
I think that Mr&#160;Karim is right: European industry has been urgently awaiting a miracle from the Commission since the beginning of 2005 and the liberalisation of the Chinese textile sector.
It has already been said, but I should like to state emphatically that liberalisation was decided upon ten years ago, in 1994.
It must also be pointed out that industrial restructuring measures are largely the responsibility of the Member States.
In its sphere of competence, the Commission proposed to reserve a portion of the Structural Funds for those sectors undergoing industrial restructuring following crises just like that in the textile sector, a matter now being discussed by the Council.
I am thinking of fabrics with very high technological content, in respect of which Chinese competition is more limited.
Mr&#160;Romagnoli, I should like to repeat what I have just said.
Regarding the High Level Group, a plan for identifying trade restrictions was presented by the Commission to the High Level Group on 14&#160;June.
Regarding the reciprocity mentioned in Mrs&#160;Lienemann’s speech, I agree, but this needs to be discussed within the WTO.
It is worth reflecting upon this and bearing in mind that trade is not a one-way affair.
I just want to point out that it is liberal Europe that has made peace possible and that has led to the wealth that has been created no doubt being better distributed and shared out here in Europe than anywhere else.
Collectivist or Marxist Europe, about which some people are clearly nostalgic, certainly cannot, in my view, offer the same track record as what is known as liberal Europe.
The future of 170&#160;000&#160;companies and 2.5&#160;million&#160;workers in Europe is at stake, as well as a market worth EUR&#160;185&#160;billion.
If we wish to stop China in its tracks and to keep jobs in Europe, we should convene an extraordinary WTO session to discuss how we can prevent global trade being dominated by a single supplier.
At the same time, we should launch the emergency procedure provided for in the guidelines for invoking the safeguard clauses, and set up a new programme to secure funding for regions where the sector provides jobs for workers who would otherwise be unemployed, and ensures that women are not forced into inferior jobs.
A consolidated market should be set up under the EU-Mediterranean agreements, and a similar platform should be established in the Baltic region. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report by Mr Duarte Freitas, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation laying down specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions of the Union [COM(2004)0687 – C6-0201/2004 – 2004/0247(CNS)] (A6-0195/2005). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to thank the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, particularly its draftsman, Mr&#160;Freitas, together with the members and draftsmen of the Committees on Budgets, International Trade and Regional Development, for all the work they have done on this report.
On 28&#160;June&#160;2001, the Council adopted a reform of the agricultural support scheme in the outermost regions of the Union.
These measures go back to 1991 and 1992, and they have proved their effectiveness in promoting agriculture and the supply of these regions with agricultural products.
Managing them has, however, posed a number of problems.
The support schemes for local production comprise a range of as many as 56 micro-measures laid down by Council regulations.
It is not possible to adapt these measures without interinstitutional legislative procedures, a state of affairs that prevents any rapid response by the Community when it comes to adapting the support measures to specific situations.
That is why the Commission proposes a change in philosophy regarding both the aid given to these regions and the adoption of a participatory method of decision-making.
The new system would also allow the measures to be adapted quickly, taking account of the specific features of these regions.
The draft regulation envisages the presentation of one programme for each outermost region in the Member States concerned.
These programmes will comprise two sections: one on the specific supply arrangements for agricultural products – agricultural inputs or products designed for transformation – which are essential in terms of human consumption in the outermost region concerned, and another section on support for local production.
A part of this support will be compulsorily reserved for support for local agricultural production.
The amounts are calculated on the basis of the average of the amounts spent on financing the specific supply arrangements during the reference period 2001 – 2003 and on the basis of the ceilings for expenditure applicable to support for local production.
They are among the ceilings to be found in Annex 8 of this regulation.
I turn now to the reform of the sugar arrangements and to the outermost regions.
Although they do not form part of the Commission proposal, I should like to make a number of comments concerning the reform of the sugar arrangements and the outermost regions.
The Commission is well aware that the characteristics of sugar production in the outermost regions of the Community are appreciably different to what they are in the other regions.
That is why financial support should be given to this sector through the granting of subsidies to farmers in the outermost regions.
The restructuring arrangements will be financed through the deduction of a specific amount from all the quotas applicable to sweeteners.
The sugar companies in the outermost regions will not fall under these arrangements.
These regions will thus be placed on an equal footing with the ACP countries in terms of price.
The direct payment in favour of the outermost regions will be included within the single framework of the Posei programme which we are debating and, as a consequence, excluded from the single payment arrangements.
The French and Portuguese outermost regions have benefited in the same way as the other Member States from the same increase in the amount of their direct payments, corresponding to the reduction in additional prices.
In view of what I have just said, the Commission is able to accept Amendments&#160;1, 8, 9, 18, 23, 24, 27, 28 and 32 and is able in part to accept Amendment&#160;35.
These programmes have encompassed two types of measure: firstly, specific supply arrangements, to support the supply to these regions of agricultural products destined for human and animal consumption, processing in local industries and agricultural inputs; and secondly, support for local agricultural production.
These measures have had a considerable impact and have had a positive influence on reviving the economies of the outermost regions.
As has also been mentioned, however, experience over the years has shown that greater flexibility is needed in the management of these two schemes.
The proposal currently before us maintains the previous programmes, but proposes a radical change of philosophy, whereby the management of programmes is made easier and the decision-making process is brought closer to those principally affected, namely the regions themselves, whilst at the same time maintaining the level of support granted in the past.
There are some issues, however, that should be improved upon, and to this end some amendments have been adopted that form part of my report.
This is because production and the market in the outermost regions are often too small to guarantee the sustainability of local processing industries, which are essential for the survival of some agricultural crops and for a degree of diversification.
I must also express my satisfaction with the measures announced by the Commission for the outermost regions in the proposed reform of the sugar common market organisation.
My report therefore suggests that, in the calculation of financial ceilings, account should also be taken of exemptions granted under the specific supply arrangements.
Lastly, I should like to congratulate my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for the support that they have given me and, in particular, the Members from the outermost regions, who have worked very hard on this process.
I should also like to thank the politicians and the representatives of the socio-economic sectors of these regions for their dedication and support while I was drawing up this report.
I trust that the Commission will appreciate the enormous importance of this issue to the outermost regions, and I naturally ask the Members of this House to vote in favour of this report. &#160;&#160; . – I should like to congratulate Mr Freitas and all of the (many) Members from the outermost regions and elsewhere involved in drawing up this report.
That being said, I wish to draw the Commission’s attention to the problem that Article 4 bans ‘processed products’ in some language versions, and ‘products incorporating products imported under this scheme’ in other language versions.
I call on the Commission to do what it has done in other areas: to channel all its efforts into addressing this problem, to listen to what we have to say and to see what this may mean on the ground in these outermost regions.
With this kind of attitude, we can achieve a positive outcome on this issue, too.
Lastly, I wish to offer a special word of thanks to my colleagues in the Committee on Budgets, who supported the vitally important strengthening of this programme.
The Committee on Budgets does not always act in this manner, but this does illustrate the committee’s great concern with the interests of the outermost regions.
The first of these concerns the annual amounts of funding to support measures for agriculture in the outermost regions.
We therefore suggest that a three-year reference period of 2001 to 2004 would be more suitable.
The second aspect concerns exemption from customs duties.
It makes no sense for the Commission’s proposal to ignore this substantial gain for the outermost regions, hence the suggestion that the amounts granted in the three-year reference period be taken into account in setting the future ceiling.
We share the belief that, in order to satisfy what the Commission said in its statement, we should look into the possibility of creating a regional integration area, we should support the rural world in these regions and, to this end, we should pave the way for independent exports of processed products and imported products under the special supply arrangements to third countries, neighbouring countries of course, or to the rest of the Community.
This will enable each outermost region to define its own agriculture development strategy to cater to its specific needs.
I cannot finish without mentioning a good example of the implementation of the concept of outermost region enshrined in Article 299(2) of the Treaty.
The agricultural and supply policies provide for special treatment tailored to the specific reality of each outermost region, and this special treatment has been improved upon and strengthened in the light of experience gained with the implementation of the Posei schemes.
The report before us – on the proposal for a Council regulation laying down specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions – forms part of the process of implementing that strategy.
Nevertheless, the initiative can and must be improved considerably, and this report by Mr Freitas can play a substantial role in achieving such an improvement.
Although the proposal for a regulation before us does not provide for changing the sources of funding or the pace of support, it will, however, introduce greater flexibility in implementing different measures and better adaptation to the specific features of each outermost region.
This will be achieved by means of stepping up participation in the decision-making process, which is a positive step and one that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament wholeheartedly supports.
We therefore have ample reason to call on Members from all sides of this House to use their vote on the relevant amendments that have been tabled to express their solidarity with some of the more problematic regions of the EU.
This is the only way in which the objectives which were clearly and objectively set out in the preamble to the Council’s proposal for a regulation under discussion and which we fully endorse can be achieved more satisfactorily and more quickly.
The outermost regions of the European Union suffer from geographical, climatic and economic conditions that are adverse in comparison with those prevailing in the others, a situation the particularities of which the EU has acknowledged and, indeed, mentioned in Article 299(2) of the European Communities Treaty.
The most interesting aspects of this report would appear to be the concern that crops which have traditionally been grown in a certain area, and which are characteristic of that area, should continue to be cultivated, and be exported throughout the EU with a special EU.
This idea would merit consideration by the Community as a whole, including the new Member States, which have long-standing ties with their non-EU neighbours.
The economies of these Member States have suffered as a result of the restrictions imposed on trade with those countries. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although the effectiveness of the Posei programmes has been proven and recognised by the European Commission, the latter considered, only two years after the last reform was implemented, that a change was needed to the ways in which the specific supply arrangements and the support for local lines of production in the outermost regions were managed.
Moreover, the budget proposed for the specific supply arrangements, calculated on the basis of unduly strict historical references, would, contrary to the Commission’s promises, amount in reality to restricting the level of Community support and be in danger of curbing the development of the industrial sectors concerned, whereas if the Poseidom were not subject to any change until the end of 2006, the specific supply arrangements would continue to progress at their present rate and would therefore increase substantially.
Implementing different arrangements now would be tantamount to saying that all the efforts made to date, by both the European Union and local farmers, have been to no avail.
The excellent report prepared by Mr&#160;Freitas achieves a balanced compromise between the need for reform and the preservation of a system of support for sustainable agriculture on the farms of small economic size of the outermost regions.
I sincerely hope that the Commission and, above all, the Council will be very much inspired by Parliament’s opinion and avoid even partially bringing the current support measures into question. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would firstly like to thank Mr Freitas for the work he has done as rapporteur, which I believe to be very satisfactory.
I would also like to thank our Union’s Commission for the work it is doing in favour of the outermost regions.
I believe that Mr Michel has said it very clearly.
In short, there has been a clear improvement in the living conditions in these regions.
The proposal now being presented to us by the Commission is intended to make the system we had more flexible.
The amendments being presented by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development are aimed at making the mechanism more flexible and must also be accepted.
The Member State in question has been helped by support programmes from the European Union to build up innovative and self-supporting agriculture and to create jobs.
Solidarity in real life is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union.
More than that, the support measures we are discussing today enable our model of multifunctional and sustainable agriculture to function as an example to those in all the parts of the EU that are far from the continent.
In many states adjoining the regions in question – and here I am particularly thinking of South America – an agricultural industry comparable to that in the USA is in the process of being developed.
We are now being presented with an opportunity to create a sustainable economy by other means – the right ones in economic, environmental and social terms. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are discussing a regulation today which may go unnoticed amongst the serious problems facing the Union at the moment but which, for the agricultural sectors of the outermost regions, is of fundamental importance and which in many cases is a matter of survival.
The rapporteur’s Amendment 27 intends to give legal coverage for imports of C sugar in certain outermost regions, particularly in the Azores, the Canary Islands and Madeira; there are certainly obstacles here, but I hope that the Commission can analyse the matter and take it into account in order to find the most appropriate solution.
Believe me, Mr Michel, the people of the Canary Islands would like both the local authorities and the services of the Commission to guarantee the greatest possible transparency in the management of the SSA, of the specific supply arrangements for the islands. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your contributions to the debate.
Firstly, I wish to reaffirm that the main purpose of this fundamental change is to give the Member States greater flexibility, which should enable them better to take into account the needs of the outermost regions.
Regarding the reference period – and I would refer in this connection to Mr&#160;Freitas’ and Mr&#160;Fernandes’ speeches – a number of you are demanding a flexible period for calculating the financial ceilings applicable to the specific supply arrangements.
I think I am able to state that the Commission has made substantial efforts to ensure that the new support arrangements are favourable to the outermost regions.
The funding has been calculated on a basis favourable to these regions, particular account having been taken not of the historical figures but of the ceilings laid down for support for local production.
With regard to limiting the specific supply arrangements to agricultural products – a matter addressed by both Mr&#160;Freitas and Mr&#160;Casaca – the Commission also wishes to provide a clearer framework for the Posei measures.
The Council’s draft regulation does not include new provisions concerning exports and shipments of products that have benefited from the specific supply arrangements.
Since 1992, the Commission has been applying the same criteria to all the outermost regions, that is to say the average for the trade flows during the period 1989–1991.
This approach was confirmed by the European Court of Justice in the Sinaga case.
The opportunities for financial support for sugar production in the Azores have been considerably increased in the Council’s draft regulation.
The proposal provides for funding calculated, where support for local production is concerned, on the proportion of the development potential for sugar production within the framework of the production quotas: almost EUR&#160;4&#160;million per year, instead of the current effective production of EUR&#160;400&#160;million per year.
On the basis of this generous funding and within the framework of the broad margin of flexibility left to the Member States in choosing sectors to subsidise, it is for the national authorities to decide, if they so wish, to increase support for sugar production and the specific sugar refinery, following consultation with all the interested parties.
The Commission is convinced that these new rules will improve the supervision of these arrangements, first and foremost in the interests specifically of the outermost regions. &#160;&#160; – This is just to inform Mr Michel that he is very much mistaken as regards the ruling by the Court of Justice of the European Communities, which referred the decision on this case to the Portuguese judicial system.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m. &#160;&#160; – The Commission is seeking to amend Regulation 1453/2001, putting into practice the principles underpinning the reform of these specific support schemes for agriculture in the outermost regions of the Union.
This happened with Azores sugar, the production of which must be made viable, and the same is true of other livestock and food produced using local traditional methods.
One is applied to the old EU Member States, and another to the new Member States.
There can be no question that farmers living in the outermost regions of the EU suffer financial difficulties.
At the same time, however, the 3.6&#160;million farmers living in the new Member States face even greater problems.
Farmers in the outermost regions have already enjoyed the full benefits of the common agricultural policy for many years, whereas the EU has graciously ‘allowed’ farmers in the new Member States to receive shockingly low direct payments, thus depriving them of the chance to achieve the levels of farmers in the old Member States.
They do, however, pose serious threats to Europe’s food security and to the stability of the agri-food market in the European Union, as well as acting as a breeding-ground for dangerous social tensions.
By doing so, we would send out a warning to the enemies of a common Europe based on solidarity, and let them know that only those who have previously acted in solidarity can later rely on solidarity themselves. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions concerning Zimbabwe(1). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the situation in Zimbabwe is going from bad to worse now.
The UN estimates that more than 200&#160;000 people are without roofs over their heads, and many of them are in danger of dying of cold now.
The worst thing, however, is that the SADC countries, and South Africa in particular, are still protecting Mugabe and accepting the huge sufferings he is inflicting upon his people.
First and foremost, the EU must put far greater pressure on both the UN and the SADC, especially South Africa, and so at long last comply with the responsibility it has by virtue of its own strength.
In short, we are pleased about the resolution, but we should like to take the opportunity to emphasise these practical opportunities for offering help, and we hope that the Commission will look sympathetically at them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as masses of people demonstrate about the situation in Africa, the G8 leaders are meeting in Scotland.
Just last week a pregnant woman and a four-year-old child were killed during the mass eviction of 10&#160;000 people from the outskirts of Harare.
The people of Zimbabwe are victims of a human rights catastrophe.
It is up to us all to raise our voices in protest and it is even more important that Zimbabwe’s neighbours condemn the atrocities.
President Mugabe played a major role in the fight for independence, both against colonialism and Ian Smith’s white minority regime.
In this, he is starting to show much likeness to the demented regime that Pol Pot sought to introduce in Cambodia 30 years ago.
Freedom and democracy are the fundamental tenets of the Union.
I therefore call upon this Parliament to support this resolution wholeheartedly. &#160;&#160; .
The situation there is desperate and deteriorating.
The focus on Africa is bolstered by the massive wave of popular support for Bob Geldof’s Live 8.
The attitude of African governments to Zimbabwe is a true test of their commitment to such good governance, yet South Africa, the key to bringing about change in Zimbabwe, continues its quiet complicity with Mugabe’s oppression.
I have asked the British Foreign Secretary and President-in-Office of the Council, Jack Straw, to urge President Mbeki, who is at Gleneagles today, to condemn Mugabe and to use every means at his disposal to bring about change for the better in Zimbabwe.
More than ever, Mugabe seems to be turning into Africa’s Pol Pot.
All and sundry are being driven into the wintry cold, desperate and not knowing where to go.
The Council seems to appreciate the seriousness of the situation but does little to bring about any real improvement.
If the United Nations really wants to do the great things to which it aspires, this is a situation in which it should do them, but sending Anna Tibaijuka, Kofi Annan’s special envoy, to that country will not be enough.
In order to intimidate still more, he mounted ‘Operation Drive Out Rubbish’, the ‘rubbish’ in question being in fact, cynically enough, people, some of whom – having already had to abandon their farms, which had been confiscated, were now losing their homes for the second time, and lacked any means of subsistence.
What is more than cynical, though, is the behaviour of the African Union, which declines to intervene, and South Africa is playing a key role in this.
There are certain Member States that are currently capitalising on other Member States’ progressive withdrawal from Zimbabwe by expanding their own presence there, and by so doing, they – all of them – make us this regime’s stooges.
The people of Zimbabwe need us, so let us put a stop to this and do something effective at last. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Zimbabwe was once one of the most affluent countries in Africa.
Unfortunately, these interests are often also dishonest and bloody.
Our debate today is concerned with Zimbabwe, but we should also talk about Brussels.
For many years now, Parliament has repeatedly asked the Council to take action on this issue, but the Council has acted blind and deaf.
The European Union, together with the USA and the Commonwealth countries, should exert a certain amount of diplomatic pressure on the African countries to this end.
I do not now intend to repeat what out resolution says; I only wish to say that democracy is a challenging process which requires effort.
It would not, however, be right for me not to let you know my feelings regarding this debate.
It is very easy for us, as Europeans, to issue press releases almost every day, denouncing and attacking Mugabe.
You should be aware, however, that, every time Mugabe is attacked, his symbolic importance as a black hero in relation to the evil white colonisers is reinforced.
What also needs to be understood is that the leaders of the other African countries, whom you denounce for not daring to adopt positions, or make value judgments, on Mugabe’s behaviour are put in difficult positions in their own countries every time Mugabe reinforces his symbolic, not to say heroic image.
What Mr&#160;Mbeki and other African leaders in the region fear is, in reality, that the phenomenon of violence and of an anti-colonialist uprising somewhere might spread into neighbouring countries.
I have on many occasions broached this issue with the representatives of the African Union and with the various Heads of Government of these neighbouring countries.
All I want to say is that an attempt at coherence is needed when points of view are defended.
I met President Konare in Syrte four days ago, together with President Barroso.
To which he would reply: but, my dear friend, every time you attack Mugabe, you make matters much more difficult for us because our peoples do not consider Mugabe to be a tyrant or dictator; they consider Mugabe basically to be standing up to the evil colonisers, embodying genuine resistance and being faithful to history.
I am almost convinced that doing so would put the African Union, the regional organisations, President Mbeki and others in a position to exercise their peer review duty.
I am almost convinced that you would be putting them in a position to do this.
I spend a lot of time in those African countries, and I am utterly dismayed to see this vicious circle whereby the more tyrannical Mugabe is and the more the European Union and other international bodies intervene to condemn him, the more popular he is.
To summarise, there is a need to be very careful when attacking the African Union and the African leaders in the region.
Second example: the data on structural and direct violence suffered by Guatemalan women is alarming, but the judicial and legislative responses appear to be insufficient.
Illegal adoptions and complaints of forced pregnancies and abductions of children are simply a symptom of, amongst other things, the weakness of the rule of law in Guatemala, particularly with regard to poor women and indigenous communities.
For all of these reasons, within the European Union’s future strategy on Guatemala 2007-2013, the Commission must be urged to establish the following as priority issues: social cohesion, the right to food, rural development and the reform of the land use and tenancy system.
That is the title of an Amnesty report published last month which estimated that nearly 1&#160;200 women and girls were brutally killed between 2001 and 2004.
A nine-month study beginning in 2003 discovered that 688 girls were trafficked into different Guatemalan cities.
These girls were not only from Guatemala, but from other Latin American countries as well.
As the girls were recruited by criminal organisations, all the victims were between 14 and 18 years old.
They were led to believe when recruited that they would work as waitresses in Guatemala, only to be told the true nature of the job afterwards.
They are often beaten up or locked in a room for several days without food for being disobedient.
The government must prosecute the criminals who are involved in this trafficking.
Illegal trafficking in children and children’s organs is becoming increasingly prevalent in Guatemala, mainly due to a lack of human rights regulations at national level, and to the massive poverty that affects two thirds of the population.
Since the in 1954, which removed from office a government that had intended to free the country from poverty and backwardness, hardly anything has gone right for Guatemala, and it has been under the constant rule of governments lacking even the least concern for the weakest groups in society or for human rights, and with a long tradition of using violence and other forms of intimidation against anyone who seeks to improve the situation.
According to official figures that we obtained there, in 2004, 3&#160;824 Guatemalan children were subject to international adoptions and that figure, for a country with just over 12 million inhabitants, demonstrates that something is not working properly there.
The adoption of a child costs between USD&#160;25&#160;000 and USD&#160;30&#160;000, and just 2 or 3% of that goes to the birth mother, that is to say, less than EUR 400.
Over recent years, many Guatemalan governments have tried to approve a law to implement the Hague Convention on adoptions, but they have failed.
Children in poor countries live in destitution and are turned out onto the streets, sexually exploited or murdered for transplantable organs.
Within the framework of implementing the 1996 peace agreements, defending human rights is a key priority in our relations with Guatemala.
Regarding the adoption of children, the Commission has, since 2004, supported the actions regularly taken by the European Union in respect of the Guatemalan authorities.
This visit enabled a climate more favourable to the necessary implementation of the aforesaid convention to be created.
At the same time, the Commission supports a series of cooperation projects concerning the problems surrounding the trafficking in children in Guatemala and the fight against child pornography, and it does this within the framework of the ‘country’ strategy for the period 2007 – 2013, which is in the process of being defined.
We intend to supplement and increase these efforts by means of a cooperation policy entirely focused on the protection and overall affirmation of children and young people, particularly young people and families at risk.
These have enabled us to express our concern about the human rights situation, including the growing violence against women and the attacks on those organisations set up to protect human rights.
This aid includes support for the judicial authority and for the office of the human rights public prosecutor in the rural areas.
The Commission has also launched a specific ‘gender’ programme, aimed more specifically at indigenous women and equipped with a budget of EUR&#160;6&#160;million.
Where our future cooperation is concerned, the absolute priorities in our relations with Guatemala are still social cohesion, rural and local development, including the definition of a comprehensive food aid strategy, and, finally, the advancement of the indigenous peoples. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
These people were amongst thousands who were detained in the capital of Ethiopia, Addis Ababa, during and after the demonstrations that began on 6 June and that lasted several days.
The European Union must therefore send a clear message to the government, warning it that it must cease all repressive and provocative attitudes, particularly towards members of the opposition, human rights activists and independent journalists, since that hostile attitude may lead the country into a situation of chaos that will benefit nobody.
The answer is of course that, while our hearts go out to the victims and their families, we must allow cowardly acts of terror to disrupt our democratic institutions and processes.
Many critics of his government have been routinely subjected to harassment, imprisonment and torture.
The security forces fired indiscriminately on the unarmed demonstrators, killing at least 36 and injuring over 100.
Over the last few years, Ethiopia has received – and continues to receive – a considerable amount of development aid from the West, much of which is from the EU.
I ask you to support this motion for a resolution. &#160;&#160; – No, Mr President, I speak to the House not, unfortunately, as an author, but as a Member of the House and as head of the EU election observation mission to Ethiopia.
At this point I wish to pay tribute to the representative of the Commission, who played – and continues to play – an outstanding role in Addis Ababa.
Accordingly, any demonstrations of interest in the Ethiopian process, however constructive or well-intentioned they may be, and this is clearly the case of this Parliament initiative, could be taken the wrong way, or could be used for nefarious purposes by those who have a vested interest in breaking up the democratisation process in Ethiopia.
I therefore ask Parliament to appreciate that I feel it is my duty not to take part in the vote on this resolution. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to be able to lend my full backing to the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in Ethiopia.
Ethiopia was a founding member of the Organisation of African Unity, but the country is still troubled by the unstable situation in Somalia, as well as by conflicts with the medieval regime in Eritrea.
One of its neighbours is Sudan, which has been trying for several decades now to resolve the internal conflicts in its north and south and the disastrous situation in Darfur.
In a situation such as this, it is absolutely crucial to strengthen the faith of the Ethiopian people in democratic systems.
A country such as Ethiopia, which is striving to improve its agricultural and industrial situation, needs our assistance.
A number of countries have already provided such assistance in the past, and programmes of this kind should be given a major boost.
It is just as important to send experts to the country to help train farmers, and if necessary to provide assistance in identifying and securing water sources, as to offer places to study at secondary schools and universities in the European Union.
Starting with the pop concerts at the weekend, moving on through the summit in Scotland on Wednesday and our great debate here in this House, it is Africa that dominates today’s topical and urgent debate this Thursday afternoon.
We have enough to do to put our own house in order, but, Commissioner, I do believe that it is necessary, as a matter of urgency, to impose sanctions on the dictators in Africa and exert pressure on them.
We now see yet another dictatorship coming into being, and that in a country that has massive potential, a country that is one of the oldest independent states on earth, with an ancient people, predominantly Christian in culture, that until recently had never had to endure colonial hegemony, a country that had fought Fascism and European militarism, a country that was once the pride of Africa and the symbol of independent self-supporting development.
It is not often that I find myself agreeing with Mr&#160;Kohlíček, but today I have to add my voice to his.
I do not represent London – or England – but I will say that we Scots stand foursquare beside our nearest neighbour, our friends, our colleagues and indeed our families in London and elsewhere.
And in the light of today’s events, it makes it all the more imperative that those of us on the side of human rights and the rule of law speak with a clear, loud and forcible voice in the world.
On the widespread abuse of human rights in Ethiopia, I wholeheartedly endorse the earlier comments of my group colleague Mr Romeva i Rueda and would add that press freedoms must not be forgotten in this debate.
The freedom of the press is pivotal to a free society and a free world.
Such a high turnout merits our respect and our support, and a country that can achieve this deserves democracy.
The only problem is that democracy comes at a very high price in Ethiopia.
Thirty-six people were killed and several thousand imprisoned, although fortunately 4&#160;000 of the latter have recently been released.
The word solidarity is one of enormous importance for the people of my country, Poland, and indeed it also holds great meaning for the European Union.
We should not allow ourselves to forget Africa, and our thoughts should not only turn to it once a year, or whenever Bob Geldof organises concerts.
The non-attached Members fully back the motion for a resolution, because it amounts to nothing less than a political translation of Ernest Hemingway’s wise saying, ‘ask not for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee’. &#160;&#160; Ethiopia is a typical case in which the European Union can make a difference and in which it also applies itself to making a difference.
I was obviously a witness to the serious incidents that occurred on 7 and 8 June 2005.
Mr Solana intervened.
You should know that I was in contact almost every two days with Prime Minister Meles to inform him of the EU’s concerns about the progress of the elections and, more specifically, about the human rights violations that were committed during those incidents.
The Ethiopian authorities have to respect not only their laws but also international human rights standards.
With regard to the events of 7 and 8 June, it would be desirable if the Government were to authorise an independent inquiry in order fully to establish the facts and the charges.
Regarding the electoral process, I am very pleased about the progress made after the serious risk of matters going off course, just as I am very pleased that it has been possible to make a start on dealing with the electoral dispute.
I have asked all the political parties – I have met them all, including the opposition parties – and their leaders to observe the maximum restraint so as to enable the national election administration to complete its work independently.
The Commission and the EU as a whole very much want Ethiopia to conclude the electoral process not only in the interests of the country’s stability but also because of the terrific signal that real democratisation of the country would send out.
Both through the European Union’s election observation mission and through the political dialogue conducted within the country itself by the Commission’s representative, the Commission is at the forefront of the initiatives and is playing a constructive role appreciated by all the Ethiopian parties.
I should also like sincerely and publicly to thank and congratulate the honourable Member, Mrs&#160;Gomes in view of her remarkable work as head of the European election observation mission and the excellent collaboration she has made possible between herself and ourselves.
I am convinced that the European Union will continue to engage in constructive, but firm and demanding, dialogue in order to continue to have a positive effect on the process under way in Ethiopia.
This process is obviously a delicate one.
Without taking sides, I should like in any case to say that the influence of the European Union is, to some extent, helped by Prime Minister Meles’s open approach and, above all, by his considerable confidence in the European Union.
I am convinced that, if we can continue to support the process, we shall play a conciliatory role, and democracy could quite easily come into its own again in Ethiopia.
If, for example, it were necessary to hold fresh elections in a number of constituencies etc., he would fall in with this.
Since I have been a Commissioner, however, this is the first time I have been aware that, when the various institutions – Parliament, High Representatives, the Commission and delegations on the spot – work together, including with the Member States and using all the instruments available to the European Union, they are effective.
I have the feeling that we have been really very useful, but I should like again to thank Mrs&#160;Gomes from the bottom of my heart because she has been of great help to us. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote. &#160;&#160; We shall now proceed to the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Saïfi Report was on the voting list for this evening rather than for midday.
The report could have been voted on now, but the reason why it was not scheduled to be voted on this evening was that there would have been a clear majority in favour of voting on it, for those who are present now are the ones who work right up to the last minute.
I might add that the vote went the way it did thanks to a majority far in excess of the number of Members present at the moment, and that makes it democratic. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I have to say, in support of the speech by my excellent fellow MEP, Mr&#160;Posselt that, from a certain point of view, we are very surprised at what has happened regarding the Saïfi report.
That is a consequence of which I would ask all of my fellow Members to assess the significance, and that is why I am raising a formal protest on this subject. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe this has been agreed by all political groups.
In paragraph 17 of the resolution, we should like to delete the words ‘government of national unity’ and insert the words ‘transitional government’.
Could I also suggest that in paragraph 18 we also include the G8 governments. &#160;&#160; . – This is simply toclarify that I had difficulty with my card in the voting machine and unfortunately I did not vote on my report.
In this context, and in light of recent experience, I feel that the thrust of the proposal, which is essentially to make the process more flexible, meets Portugal’s considerable interests in this issue.
Our outermost regions – the Azores and Madeira – deserve special focus due to their specific situation, not least in the field of agriculture. &#160;&#160; I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
