Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 13 June 2002.
Thursday: I have received a request from the PPE-DE Group and the PSE Group to replace Item 4 under Topical and Urgent Debate "Democracy in Afghanistan" with a new item: "The crisis in Argentina".
This applies to both Cuba and Afghanistan.
I therefore feel that it is absolutely necessary to open up the debate on both Argentina and Afghanistan as soon as possible, instead of postponing this subject until September.
If, at the end of the debate, we need to put a question to the Commission or the Council, all well and good: we will continue the debate in September or October with a question to the Council and the Commission.
I should like to express my strongest possible objection to the operation of that veto in the Security Council, because it effectively vetoes, not only the mandate by the United Nations in relation to Sfor, but also the foreign policy of Ireland and other countries which operate in Sfor based on the UN mandate.
It is not acceptable to this House and it should not be acceptable to the European Union.
We wish those who were injured a speedy recovery and send our deepest sympathy to the parents and relatives of Katherine Fish.
Mr President, as I have already requested of you in writing, the Council must, as a matter of urgency, provide a full explanation of the serious events that involved hundreds of Portuguese citizens, including delegations of Portuguese political parties and members of parliament, who were trying to go to the demonstration due to take place on 22 June, in Seville, during the European Council and who were prevented from crossing the border between Portugal and Spain, with some of them even being subjected to violence by the Spanish police and having photographic and audiovisual equipment confiscated.
They have upset many people in Portugal and have caused a political storm, and this House cannot remain indifferent to what has occurred in a Member State of the European Union.
They are therefore invited by the European Parliament but are not allowed to leave Cuba, something I find deeply disquieting.
This resolution was submitted on 20 June 2002.
Under normal circumstances, we in the Committee treat a case of this sort on the assumption that we are dealing with a case of what is termed fumus persecutionis, which means that the possibility cannot be excluded that the prosecuting authority, in this case the Greek State Prosecution Service, is acting against one of our colleagues because he is an MEP.
It was in this perspective that the great majority of the Legal Affairs Committee took the view that immunity should not be waived in this case.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
Mr President, I should like to take the place of the rapporteur in this matter.
I personally have to say that I will be voting in favour of Amendment No 21, which pertains to the transport of flowers, although my group will, unfortunately, be voting against it.
Finally, I should like to point out that Amendments Nos 4 and 13 jeopardise the directive, to say the least.
I think that we have finally achieved - after many years of work and thanks to a proposal by the Commission, which is already a compromise - a good balance.
The only issue to be resolved between us, between those Members who wish to reject this draft directive and the others, is to establish whether we should introduce legislation in this area.
Furthermore, I would reiterate that the proposal by the Commission provides a legal basis for what are currently the most stringent bans, namely those in Austria and Germany, and which ensures that the other countries can choose whether to conform to them.
As far as the rapporteur's Amendments Nos 4 and 13 are concerned, in which topographical reasons are given to justify driving bans, these are not acceptable to my group.
Should these Amendments Nos 4 and 13 be adopted during the vote of this report tomorrow, then I, as the shadow rapporteur, will advise my group to vote against the report as a whole.
Mr President, Commissioner, we believe in the concept of the single market and in the Community principle of the free movement of people, capital, services and goods, but we also argue in favour of quality of life and the environment.
In this regard, several Member States have established differing timetables and dates for restrictions, which is creating great confusion for hauliers, for the senders and receivers of cargo, as well as disturbance in the freight market in terms of distribution and supply.
We must strike a balance between, on the one hand, the authority of Member States to incorporate moments of peace and quiet in the flow of traffic and, on the other hand, to maintain the free movement of goods and services.
I would therefore warmly recommend the amendments tabled by my group.
Hence it is not on for us, when we vote today or tomorrow, to agree to the European Union being given the right to enact regulations of any kind on travel bans.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Savary, the difficulties many Member States are having in accepting the harmonisation of driving restrictions applicable to heavy goods vehicles involved in international transport on the trans-European road network at weekends and on public holidays are well known, given the various failed attempts of the Commission to implement the directive on a transparent system of harmonised rules.
The EU must attempt to find a balance in this area.
It may not be a road frontier, but the 22 miles of sea at its narrowest point does make a great deal of difference.
We have different commercial systems and a different tempo of life.
Accordingly, we have evolved our own system of controls.
These problems do not just distort the image of the sector, but they are real problems which may become worse as a result of enlargement.
The honourable Members know all of these measures presented by the Commission - many of them during the French Presidency - which were also debated in part and which formed part of our analysis of the White Paper.
I strongly believe that it is important to introduce Community rules in this area and to organise weekend restrictions for heavy goods vehicles for the whole of the Union.
The lack of coordination of this type of measure hinders the functioning of the internal market in road transport, and the Commission and the majority of States are in favour of common rules which establish a durable, clear and transparent system and which provides, as has been said, a combination and a difficult balance between two opposing interests: the citizens' right to enjoy roads at weekends which are not entirely congested and the freedom of transit of goods across the Union.
The Commission's current amended proposal has attempted to respond to the initial objections, by clearly indicating that it applied solely to heavy goods vehicles on international routes and on the European transport network.
The proposal harmonises the timetable for weekend restrictions, but does not jeopardise the current restrictions in the large majority of Member States.
But there are some which we must reject, namely No 32, simply because it rejects our proposal.
We also reject Amendments Nos 4, 13, 35 and 38, since they allow States to introduce a restriction and simply inform the Commission and thus the other States and their transport workers.
Finally, we reject Amendments Nos 2, 23, 25 and part of 39, since we do not believe them to be appropriate.
The reality is that we also have to remember that the internal market will shortly be extended towards the East and that, in those circumstances, it will be even more necessary to seek a coordinated approach and position and a degree of harmonisation.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, please excuse the flaws in the language that I am using in this House.
My mother tongue is, in fact, Catalan and I condemn the fact that 10 million citizens are unable to use their own language in this House.
I proposed to the Committee on Economic Affairs that we use the term 'agrofuel'.
The Commission is working on a hypothesis that road transport will continue to increase.
Furthermore, the growth in demand in the transport sector is causing increased dependence on oil- or natural gas-producing third countries.
The Commission Green Paper on the security of energy supply recommends that substitute fuels should represent 20% of our total consumption by 2020.
In order to promote the use of biofuels, a tax incentive must be introduced.
In fact, it appears that the Commission wanted to amend the tax regime for biofuels following the ruling by the Court of First Instance of 27 September 2000.
In view of the case law involving BP Chemicals, several Member States submitted derogation applications to the Commission.
On the basis of Article 93 of the EC Treaty, the proposal for a directive seeks to harmonise the rate of excise duty for biofuels.
It is stipulated therefore that Member States may apply levels of taxation lower than the rate of 20% which has been retained as a lower limit on these products, but that the levels of taxation may not be lower than 50% of the normal rate of excise duty applied to fossil fuels.
Several amendments are seeking a total exemption from excise duty to be applied to biofuels.
It is unlikely that the Member States, which must act unanimously in this area, will reach an agreement on this issue.
From this point of view, we believe it would be more appropriate to encourage biofuels with a view to their use by what are called their 'captive audience', namely taxis, bus companies and diesel locomotives.
This solution also has the merit of encouraging decentralised development.
In essence, although we agree on the 2% target of biofuels for the year 2005, we oppose the 5.75% target by 2010.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a directive which responds to the Commission Communication, the Green Paper and various resolutions by this Parliament.
The Commission has proposed certain obligatory objectives to be complied with over a number of years.
However, many countries have been very reticent in accepting them.
Despite the amendments presented - and there have been many - proposing indicative targets, this Parliament, both in the Industry Committee and in the Environment Committee, has approved making the targets obligatory by a huge majority.
In the Industry Committee specifically, there were 38 votes in favour and 5 against.
Furthermore, we also propose to the Council a compromise on Amendment No 53, which proposes that the Member States, for justifiable reasons, may delay the application of the directive through a one-off exception of two years.
In countries with warm summers, volatility increases and therefore vapour pressure will have to be increased.
However, there are a number of amendments in the recitals which may be accepted, insofar as we must take account of these alternative fuels.
Other amendments take the approach of establishing quality standards for biofuels which must be mixed.
We must establish standard rules for all biofuels.
Finally, I would like to say that this is a directive which is intended to replace existing fuels with biofuels.
It is not a directive with an ultimately environmental aim, but it has significant environmental repercussions.
There are those who say that there are other cheaper ways to reduce CO2 emissions.
Furthermore, it brings other benefits in relation to employment and agriculture.
The quality of biofuel production will primarily be determined by the way in which agriculture will be managed and this is what we must bear in mind, above all else, in dealing with this subject.
The proposal I shall confine myself to talking about concerns the possibility of reducing excise duty in the Member States, that is to say the Commission proposal for amending Directive 92/81/EEC.
The proposal gives the Member States access to a flexible financial instrument of control for developing the production of biofuels.
Producing and utilising fuels derived from biomass is a political and economic alternative to importing oil.
This promotion can simultaneously create jobs in agriculture and plant engineering, leading in turn to higher tax yields and social security contributions.
My group has always taken the view that the use of agricultural products for industrial purposes should be promoted.
I therefore consider an integral environmental impact study to be necessary in order to remove the doubts that exist in connection with the use of biofuels.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what actually are biofuels?
Plans to apply reduced rates of excise duty to biofuels or to exempt them from duties altogether, and to provide for the promotion of their use with a catalogue of clear objectives, will help to reduce the European Union's high degree of dependency on oil imports in an environmentally sound manner.
It is important in this context that environmental and climatic conditions should come under particular scrutiny, that agricultural practices should be examined accordingly, and that it is not in the least acceptable for the Council to do as it is no doubt currently trying to do, and provide for any Member State to be able to opt out without substantial obstacles being put in the way of their doing so.
If any agreement can be achieved by means of this package, then the proposal is a good one and we are making progress.
Even if the same potential and the same financial resources as are envisaged in this area were to be invested in thermal insulation for example, energy requirements could be reduced by three times as much.
If we want to set targets to promote the use of biofuels we must also be prepared to introduce tax concessions in connection with them.
Neither should this directive mean expensive agricultural aid for certain Member States.
We will have to look carefully at how the availability of raw material develops in the different Member States.
Secondly, mandatory targets in the first instance are too restrictive.
Member States need to be encouraged to negotiate targets in line with their own particular circumstances and the environmental performance of fuels suitable to their geographical areas.
We should also bear in mind that many high-energy biofuels may be better used in heat and power production rather than transport - another reason for allowing Member States to develop their own biofuel strategy.
So I agree with the compromise position which has been outlined this evening, which calls for indicative targets with the Commission able, at a later date, to introduce mandatory targets if we feel progress is not being made.
Yes, of course there is such a thing as intensive farming, but there is also extensive farming, and I have never come across a refinery producing conventional fuels on an extensive basis.
But a market of our own also means independence - that we would no longer be dependent on global markets and affected by world economic crises.
As you know, the aim of this directive in terms of taxes is to establish a Community framework which allows Member States to apply a differentiated tax system which favours biofuels.
I believe that each country of the European Union is going to try over the next few years to achieve the reduction in CO2 emissions we have set for 2020 within the framework of the Kyoto Protocol and, according to their circumstances, some will put more emphasis on the use of biofuels and others on wind power, etc.
For this reason, I believe it is essential to make this directive more flexible.
In the same way, I fear that this will be the only way to move this proposal forward within the Council, where, as you know, there is a great divide on this issue.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am taking the floor once again on behalf of my fellow Member, Mr Dominique Souchet, who was the other draftsman in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and who worked on the fiscal aspects.
I shall not return to the political argument but, as you know, market forces dictate that, for two major reasons, biofuels cannot currently be developed spontaneously in the European Union.
The first reason is that the price of fossil fuels does not include external costs generated, firstly, by the use of a non-renewable resource - namely, oil - and secondly, by very high greenhouse gas emissions.
It would therefore be a matter of transforming excise duty on car fuels into a type of eco-tax that would be higher for fossil fuels than for renewable fuels due to the punitive external costs of fossil fuels.
The Commission's tax proposal should help to enable the European Union to meet the objective set out in the Green Paper on the security of energy supply, namely of achieving 20% use of substitute fuels in road transport by the year 2020.
The amendments adopted in the Committee on Agriculture seek to make this Directive more effective, by emphasising that the by-products of biofuels produced in the European Union provide materials that are rich in plant protein which can be used in animal feed; by abolishing the totally arbitrary limit of 50% of the tax differential; by abolishing the time limit of 31 December 2010, since the external costs in the oil sector are permanent; by applying complete tax exemption to fuels used in biofuel production, which is already the case in the manufacture of oil products; by pointing out that cuts in excise duty can only apply to biofuels produced in the European Union, otherwise the European Union would not benefit from either reduced greenhouse gas emissions or from protein fodder crops that are produced as a by-product.
Furthermore, the introduction of biofuels is also one of the few possibilities we have for reducing our dependency on oil and reducing CO2 emissions in this sector.
In this context, Mr President, I am going to comment on the two proposals.
The fact that five committees have participated in the examination of this proposed directive clearly demonstrates the intrinsically multifunctional nature of biofuels.
In view of the position of the majority of Member States and of the need - which I believe to be essential - to implement a stable system within a stable framework, essentially from a fiscal point of view, to promote the use of biofuels, the Commission could accept a solution similar to that proposed by the directive on electricity from renewable sources being applied to biofuels.
There are now two amendments, No 68 and No 69, which have been signed by various rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, which, on behalf of the Commission, I can accept, because they could clearly bring the positions of Parliament and of the Council closer together.
I would like to say to you that a minimum saving of 45% in terms of CO2 emissions - and for certain biofuels this is much greater, around 80%, and in some cases event higher - seems to me essential.
I am shortly going to present you with a new proposal to provide a clear framework for the combined production of heat and electricity, that is to say, co-generation, and I would like to point out that we are talking about global improvements in the efficiency of the whole system of 5 or 10% and that the most efficient systems barely achieve a 10% improvement.
We have presented the proposal on biofuels together with a communication on alternative fuels.
However, we believe that the amendments which include other fossil fuels in the provisions of this directive do not fall within its scope and we cannot therefore accept Amendments Nos 9, 13, 29 and 30 (in part).
Neither can we accept certain amendments which, for example, exclude the use of biofuels in fleets of captive vehicles or which remove content from the proposal, which are Amendments Nos 11, 17, 27, 33, 40, 48, 50, 51, 52, 56, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66 and part of 19.
Today we have the opportunity to agree on a legislative provision which, on some aspects, is less ambitious than the Commission's original proposal, but which I believe is realistic and which allows us to make progress, provided that - and this brings me to the second proposal - the Council also accepts our proposal on exemption from special taxes for biofuels.
In fact, according to the news reaching us from the Council this issue has also been discussed.
I would also like to express my gratitude for the rapporteur's work and insist that the news I have from the Council moves in the right direction and this will therefore allow us to approve the package, the two measures, with targets that are not mandatory, but merely indicative.
I believe that this would be a step forward in terms of promoting the use of biofuels.
However, it cannot accept Amendments Nos 2, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24 and 25, because they attempt to impose obligations on the Member States or because they are already covered by the legislation in force, or simply because they are superfluous or inappropriate in the context of this proposal.
Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's support for the two proposals with the rewordings and amendments suggested - specifically Amendments Nos 68 and 69 - would represent genuine progress and would speed up the increase in the use of biofuels in the transport sector.
Thank you, Mrs de Palacio.
The vote on the Mayol i Raynal report will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0196/2002) by Mr Rübig, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the Commission report to the European Parliament and the Council: Operation of the Euratom Safeguards Office 1999-2000 COM(2001) 436 - C5-0535/2001 - 2001/2214(COS)) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 11 September is still on everyone's lips, and we know that nuclear material has to be handled with very great care.
I believe that now is the time for common European safety standards for nuclear power stations and for the transport nuclear material to be established.
In this area as in others, we will have high expectations of the new ten countries that want to join the EU, and we ought also to consider role the ESO might play in future.
We are therefore of the opinion that we should have two directives; one on the transport of nuclear materials and a second on the auditing, certification and supervision of nuclear safety.
It is indeed the topic for debate, Mr President, for Euratom is doing the very same that we are doing here in this Parliament in which we hide ourselves away, where we do so much to ensure that nobody hears us doing it.
Unless one knows Parliamentary practices and perhaps also certain usages in debate behind closed doors, it is very difficult to track the thinking behind items 1, 2 and 3.
If we carry on in this fashion, then not only will our work continue to be undermined, but so will what perhaps makes sense of the use of nuclear energy, and that brings me to my ceterum censeo.
Especially because - in my opinion - we are working on and talking about an issue of great importance to the citizens, which should in principle be of interest to them and which I believe does interest them.
I am particularly grateful because we are talking about the first report on Euratom's safeguards operation to be presented by the Commission in the last eight years.
Last week, the Commission approved my initiative to regroup under a sole management the responsibilities of the Commission in the field of nuclear safety in the broadest sense of the word.
Secondly, with regard to competences in the field of nuclear safety in the broadest sense, I believe it is crucial that the exercise of Community competence can rely on the technical expertise of the national authorities and can be undertaken in a coordinated and harmonious way and in conjunction with them.
This is something that is absolutely necessary and the nuclear option must be kept open in the European Union.
The corollary of this observation on the new circumstances, however, is the need to guarantee the utmost transparency and efficacy of the appropriate safety standards in all installations in the European Union.
Security of nuclear materials in the EU has been an increasingly important issue since 11 September.
It cannot be right, after 11 September, to continue to stockpile and increase the stockpile of hundreds of tonnes of plutonium.
Could I also ask her as a matter of form to include in that package the need for proper consultation and communication between neighbouring States within the European Union, including the accession States, so that concerns can be discussed in a proper way, in a proper consultative forum.
I respect the rights of other Member States, but they must respect our right and listen to our concerns and act on them.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
And this is ultimately the object of the work I have been doing here for these three years.
It is extremely remarkable that Europe should invest so much time looking at the situations in the different Member States, while these Member States are being completely crushed by a competitor who is not, however, an EU Member, fortunately.
In my view, this interim balance sheet shows one thing, namely that the European film industry is strong when we work together - Parliament, Commission, and Council, laborious though that sometimes is, with the professionals.
The balance sheet for the past three years proves that we have achieved important things.
We need to move over to qualified majority voting to have an efficient working basis under Article 151 of the Treaties.
Things are therefore taking on a slightly more concrete form.
He enjoys cooperating and always works within the consensus.
Joining the digital world means revolutionising our technological system in most cases, providing Europe with a base that will make it stronger and concerning ourselves as soon as possible with the issue of post-production.
Luckas Vander Taelen has done so and deserves our congratulations.
The two others will be published at a later date.
Before I respond to two or three specific points, let us simply remember that the Commission's communication, on which the report we are discussing this evening is based, is merely a first stage.
We shall continue, as before, to fulfil the mandate that we were given, and which is to protect cultural diversity in this area, as in others.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
The December 1994 European Council in Essen in gave a decisive political incentive to the TENs by adopting a list of fourteen priority projects.
A number of financial instruments were set up by the Community and the European Investment Bank in order to achieve these objectives.
The main purpose of Community assistance for TENs is to help to surmount the financial obstacles which may arise when a project gets under way.
An additional amount of EUR 100 million in the period 2003-2006 would be assigned to the transport TENs budget line (B5-700) to complement support provided through ISPA.
Finally, the Commission proposes to reallocate EUR 50 million in favour of the cross-border projects within the current transport TENs envelope.
Amendments Nos 1, 3, 5 and 6 establish the general framework, restoring the balance of the Commission's proposal, which tended to emphasise the importance solely of projects involving the candidate countries.
However, most importantly, this funding must be effectively spent and transparently accountable and in this respect I warmly welcome the rapporteur's proposal for increased financial probity.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission recommended on 12 March 2002 that the energy networks should be included in this amendment to the Regulation.
The Commission is proposing an increase in the maximum rate from 10% to 20%.
I would also like to thank the bureau and, most especially, the Commission.
Mr President, we share the concerns about the major delays facing these projects, which have been claimed to be priority projects.
We did, however, vote against the report in committee because of a number of outstanding concerns, which we will try to address tomorrow in a series of amendments and requests for split votes.
In connection with penalties or claw-back, our view is that the report should follow the text of the Bradbourn report on TENs and demand that if projects are not substantially complete after 15 years, they should be taken off the list.
These projects, which fully meet the priorities of sustainable development, are some of the most complex, both from a technical point of view and in terms of their financing.
Furthermore, as you have said, considerable delays were also experienced in improving or building infrastructures between the Union and candidate countries.
In the area of energy, the recent communication on energy infrastructures identified many missing links in electrical interconnections between Member States and the Barcelona European Council set a very ambitious target for cross-border interconnection capacity of at least 10% of the Union's production capacity to be achieved by 2005.
In light of this, and in line with the White Paper on transport policy problems, and in response to requests made by the Gothenburg European Council with regard to increased financial support for rail projects, the proposal to revise the financial regulation that is before you today seeks to raise the maximum ceiling of Community financial support for trans-European networks to 20% for cross-border rail projects that cross natural barriers or for projects to eliminate bottlenecks in the rail network, as has already been possible with the current regulation for satellite radio-navigation projects such as Galileo.
This support of up to 20% will be applied to both cross-border infrastructures with the candidate countries in order to cope with the predicted increase of traffic between these countries and those of the Union.
Our aim is very clear therefore: to allow Community financial support to fulfil its role as a catalyst, including in the project development phase, and to make investments in cross-border transport and energy infrastructures more attractive to private funding.
Of the amendments which were proposed, in other words, 15 amendments, the Commission must however reject Amendment No 2, as it affects our right of initiative; Amendment No 12, as this arises from a misinterpretation, and I will come back to this; Amendment No 14 which establishes restrictions that fall outside the scope of the regulation, and Amendment No 15, which considerably alters the nature of the Commission's proposal since it removes the chapter on energy.
Lastly, I would draw your attention to the fact that the Commission proposal only relates to two sectors, transport and energy.
As far as Amendment No 13 is concerned, as with Amendment No 8, the Commission is able to accept the part which seeks to promote safety, but not the rest of the amendment.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
