Monitoring the application of Community law (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Frassoni, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the Commission's 23rd Annual report on monitoring the application of Community law (2005) .
The infringement procedure is described by Articles 226 and 228 of the Treaty, and therefore there is not much scope for creativity.
However, a great deal, a very great deal, can be done and I thank the Commission for proposing in the last two years, and then last September in a specific communication, a series of measures that are analysed and evaluated in my report, and on which I would like to make a few comments.
I would like to mention two specific examples of somewhat different behaviour by the Commission: the waste crisis in Naples and the Via Baltica motorway in the Rospuda Valley in Poland.
This is actually what Commissioner Dimas did in the case of the Rospuda Valley in Poland, which was in danger of being spoiled by infrastructure for the Via Baltica.
This is a very important precedent that sends an extremely clear message: the Commission can and must be firm and thorough with Member States that act as if nothing had happened, and it must use all the tools the democratic system allows: the media and public opinion.
One of the most important innovations that the Commission introduces in the communication concerns a 'new' working method.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Thank you Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
On behalf of the Council I would like to welcome the findings of Mrs Frassoni's report, which in our opinion are essential, namely that securing the positive effects of Community law on the everyday lives of the citizens of the European Union depends primarily on the efficiency of European Union policies and on the supervision and monitoring of the methods by which the Member States comply with Community law.
Only the law can guarantee the freedoms that citizens are entitled to and only the law can shape the market economy in such a way that it works to the benefit of all.
Each committee will find, therefore, that one of its most important tasks is to ensure that our law does not consist merely of empty words.
Therefore, Mrs Frassoni, I will go back to the Commission with what you said about rubbish in Campania and this topic will have to be discussed.
The Commission therefore wishes to see more dialogue and more transparency in these issues.
It is not a totally new process, but a preliminary procedure in which we require additional procedures or in order to achieve a solution more quickly without instituting treaty infringement proceedings.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Petitions. - Mr President, in the minute I have on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, I would like to do three things.
First of all, I would like to thank Ms Frassoni for her cooperation on this annual report, but, most of all, I would like to make clear the importance of the Petitions Committee in this monitoring and implementation procedure.
I thank the Commissioner for that, because we should really have a partnership in this exercise between our two institutions, and particularly involving the Petitions Committee, which is really our eyes and ears, as legislators, through our citizens, who come to us with direct problems that they perceive.
I have had a long dialogue with your colleague Ms Wallström about citizens' summaries, so that citizens understand our law.
In past years the total number of proceedings dealing with violations of legal regulations instigated by the Commission was steadily rising, to reach a level of almost 2 700 in 2005.
Despite EU enlargement by 10 new states, the years since then have not seen any overall rise in the number of violations.
We should also welcome the Commission's comprehensive communication 'A Europe of results - Applying Community law'.
However, the questions of funds available for consideration of instances of violation, the length of proceedings in cases of violation, the restricted application of Article 228 of the Treaty and evaluation of the application of priority criteria still need to be fleshed out in more detail by the Commission.
The proposed new working method being introduced in 2008, as a pilot project involving several Member States and, aimed at conducting existing proceedings more efficiently, deserves acknowledgement.
Finally, may I warmly congratulate Mrs Frassoni on a very well-prepared document.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I would like to turn my attention to our three institutions and to emphasise how important it is that each one plays a part in the implementation and monitoring role.
We are grateful that many of the lessons that were thrown up by our report on the demise of Equitable Life have been taken on board.
I hope they do not perceive it as some sort of soft option and I hope the Commission will disabuse them of the idea that could, in any way, be the case.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I congratulate my group colleague and group Co-President Mrs Frassoni for a timely and well thought-out report.
I congratulate the Commission on a number of steps that have been very positive.
I am very aware that is not all the fault of the Commission, but we must all play our part in resolving that if we are one Europe.
I would like to make one more point, particularly in relation to environmental legislation, where many of the conflicts arise: many of the very worthy aims of individual pieces of legislation do conflict, and we must face up to that in preparing them.
We were promised a review of that in the energy package, so if our Commissioner could give us some light on that process, which is ongoing, I would be very grateful. (NL) Mr President, I, too, wish to compliment Mrs Frassoni on her report.
It is good that Parliament is also taking a serious look at the transposition of legislation in Member States.
Commissioner Verheugen has already said on certain occasions that in future it may make sense to make more use of the regulation instrument for internal market legislation, in order to avoid all kinds of problems such as cherry-picking and gold-plating during the transposition of directives.
In other words, I think that the European Parliament report, the proposal put forward by Mrs Frassoni and also the opinion of Mrs Wallis are aimed at strengthening the Commission, so that the Commission does not consider itself to be alone and defenceless against the governments, but rather has the European Parliament to strengthen this role of overseeing and monitoring that the Commission has in relation to the application of Community law. (DA) Mr President, the citizens of Europe are decisively important for the EU's legislation.
In many environmental issues they have often been key players.
I would therefore like to thank Mrs Frassoni for drawing attention to these threats.
EU citizens will gain a stronger position through the Treaty of Lisbon, but if this is to be anything other than a pointless decoration, their contribution to the EU must be taken seriously. (PL) Mr President, I, too, would like to congratulate Mrs Frassoni on an excellently prepared report.
I would also like to say how pleased I am that, according to the statistics presented by the European Commission concerning the number of proceedings relating to cases of violation of EU law, the accession of 10 new Member States has not had an impact on the number of violations recorded.
The fundamental problem in this procedure is the time one has to wait for an answer from the Court, which is still very long (about 20 months).
Readiness to apply Community law in practice depends on the institutions and the system of procedures, incentives and restrictions.
A good will to act is also needed. (DE) Mr President, Mr Vice-President, in your introduction you pointed out that the Commission does not want to launch out blindly but sound out whether something should be done, by discussing it with the Member States.
With the new interinstitutional agreement, Parliament can put a matter back on the agenda, but only if the right and left wings of the House are in agreement and can produce an absolute majority of members in favour.
When it comes to the so-called new Member States, it must be taken into account that they became Members after many years of intensive transposition of Community law into their internal legal system, since when they have found it easier to continue the process on a smaller scale.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my fellow Members, the Commissioner and the Presidency for their participation in this discussion which, as Commissioner Verheugen said, does not end here.
In the debate the question came up of the number of infringements in the new Member States, and what the Commissioner and the Presidency said is probably true.
