Resumption of the session Mr President, I should like to make a brief statement on an incident which occurred this morning at our group meeting.
Mr President, I have a request to put to the Presidency.
It would have been appropriate to modify the budget to maintain the balance between the forecast expenditure and revenue.
In the case of the Structural Funds, percentage of use was less then 70%, the lowest level since 1999.
What is more, only EUR 1 million were received by the final beneficiaries of this programme.
Outstanding commitments amount to EUR 12 000 million in the case of external aid and to nearly 3 000 million in the case of the new pre-accession instruments.
This would result in a more accurately calculated and balanced budget.
The Court has analysed the follow-up given to its previous observations.
This is the case of the system of aid for durum wheat, where deficiencies that the Court pointed out in 1998 are still in evidence and some EUR 450 million are spent unnecessarily every year.
It is the opinion of the Court that the accounts for 2001 reliably reflect the revenue and expenditure and the financial situation of the Communities.
However, the Report does express some reservations and observations which for the most part concern defects in the accounting system on which the Court has previously remarked.
In its reply to our Report, the Commission acknowledges these shortcomings and undertakes to present a plan to modernise the accounting system before the end of 2002.
The Court will examine the conception and implementation of this plan and will keep Parliament informed of its progress.
As in previous years, the Court is of the opinion that the transactions underlying the revenue, commitments and administrative expenditure are legal and regular.
Most errors were detected in payments relating to agricultural policy and structural measures - in other words, in those management areas which the Commission shares with the Member States, and which account for some 80% of the budget.
The national authorities in the beneficiary countries and non-governmental organisations play a decisive role in the management system for external aid programmes.
However, in some respects the debate has suffered from a lack of precision and balance.
Yet this effort has also led the Court to criticise the accounting system.
Let us see what the Court's main observations in this respect are.
Secondly, the Council has adopted a new Financial Regulation which the Court considers generally appropriate.
Despite some remaining unsatisfactory elements, this is a good instrument which will help to improve the administration of Community funds.
For the first time, the Directors-General have drafted activity reports and prepared declarations on the quality of information and internal control.
The Commission has summarised the reports and declarations by the Directors-General in a single document which it has submitted to Parliament and the Council.
This summary includes a plan of action which aims to remedy the problems that have been identified.
The plan should provide more detail on issues such as the monitoring of internal control standards and the reform of SINCOM.
Finally, one aspect of the reform deserves greater attention.
The Commission is having problems with incorporating concrete measures aimed at checking and improving the effectiveness of these management systems, which account for more than 80% of the budget, into its overall strategy.
I believe that this message provides an appropriate conclusion to my speech.
The reform is progressing positively.
It is a laborious process to which all the institutions must contribute their experience.
The Court is critical of the EUR 15 billion surplus for that year on the grounds that it is not the result of savings - which would have been a good thing - but has come about because the Budget provision on which Parliament had decided had not been fully used, and because programmes, especially in structural policy, had simply got going more slowly than had been planned.
In this area, the Commission always relies on proposals and predictions by the Member States, and in this instance we were working on the basis of assumptions that were simply unrealistic.
We have done this principally by way of two supplementary Budgets, an instrument that also featured in discussions on the Financial Regulation.
Turning to the accounting standards, the Court has, as in previous years, again observed that the annual accounts for the financial year 2001 gives a true and faithful picture of revenue and expenditure, and of the Community's financial position at the end of the year.
In some Member States, financial management continues to be founded on this principle, and there is no truth in the claim that this type of cash accounting is inherently susceptible to fraud.
There is a close connection between the adoption of commercial standards in the public sector and the overall reform of administration within the Commission, and also in some Member States in particular.
Every year, Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control has the important task of checking the financial statement, and, should you need help in this, it goes without saying that my staff are always at your service.
Mr Elles, if your group has come to the decision that it should seek help from elsewhere, that is manifestly its own business.
To summarise, I would like to thank Mr Fabra Vallés again for observing that the Court of Auditors, on the basis of rigorous and professional audit work, has confirmed the reliability of the Commission's accounts.
We did this for the first time in 2001, and the Court of Auditors is right to point out that the statements by the Directors-General still differ in too many respects for them to be able to serve as a basis for some sort of Single Audit Concept.
Let me take this opportunity of congratulating the Court of Auditors on its twenty-five years of existence, and also, on behalf of the Commission, to again thank it very warmly for all the work it has done.
For its part, the Commission will do all it takes to give you satisfactory answers in due time, that is to say by 18 December.
The questionnaire also makes clear, Mr Casaca - and you can tell the committee this from me - that the cooperation involved will, in my view, be not only thoroughly in-depth, but also very good.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Fabra Vallés, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by extending my warm congratulations to the Court of Auditors on twenty-five years of its existence and on last week's celebrations, which were entirely worthy of the occasion.
What the Court has to say in Chapter 9 of the Statement of Assurance is most interesting, but, at the same time, gives rise to grave concern.
In terms of discharge, the really important things will be a series of items such as Commission reform, financial management and the new Financial Regulation.
The Committee on Budgetary Control was prevented from hearing the arguments of the Commission's accounting officer, who has since been suspended.
What we now read in the Court's report- on pages 308 ff.
Putting together the Court's criticisms in its reports from 1994 onwards, the result is proof of the culpably negligent way in which the Commission goes about remedying these serious defects.
The first is whether 2001 saw an improvement in Budget implementation.
The new Financial Regulation gives its Directorates-General decentralised responsibility.
She was to provide additional evidence of the things that the Court of Auditors' comments had in any case already denounced.
Let me say it in my own words: we Social Democrats - like the other groups - have refused to let this House and its procedures degenerate into a circus of personalities, and we will continue to do so.
The two things have nothing to do with each other, and we expect prompt and clear information enabling us to follow up the reasons why certain things did not happen.
The Court of Auditors is celebrating its twenty-fifth anniversary, for which congratulations are in order, and I can only say that in those twenty-five years, the Court of Auditors has become a father figure without which this Parliament would be unable to do its job.
The Court of Auditors takes a positive view of Commission reform, and the same more or less goes for the new Financial Regulation.
The bad news is that a positive Statement of Assurance has not yet been issued this year either.
I think that this will be essential in the future.
As far as the procedure is concerned, surely there is room for at least some improvement, and the reports will also need to be more specific and clearer, but I think that this will be also an essential point for us as Parliament in future.
As everything that needed to be said about the surplus on the budget has already been said, I will not enter into any great detail on this subject.
One major point that is left is enlargement.
The Court of Auditors itself admits that even the current Member States leave a great deal to be desired on this score.
Without doubt, the most serious point in this annual report is, however, the general criticism of the reliability of the EU's accounting system and of its financial management.
Despite this serious criticism of the accounting system, the statement of assurance nevertheless states that the transactions have been carried out correctly.
In principle, it is impossible to claim both these things at the same time.
It would be interesting to hear the opinion of the Court of Auditors on this matter too.
I could question the considerable budget surplus of EUR 15 million; I could ask why, for the umpteenth year in a row, no positive Statement of Assurance has been issued; I could ask about the Commission's accounting system, about the shortcomings of the Member States which, all in all, already manage 80% of European subsidy policy; about pre-accession policy, or about Sapard, where only 9.2% of the resources have been used.
However, according to OLAF's annual report, allegations have been made by an MEP to OLAF with regard to possible misappropriations by a former member of the Court of Auditors.
One of those recommendations was to mount a disciplinary inquiry against a former member of the Court of Auditors and against someone who used to be one of its temporary officials.
Members of the Court of Auditors, it is a crucial question because we will shortly be debating not only Parliament's discharge, the Commission's discharge, but also, among other things, the discharge of the Court of Auditors itself.
I think that an honest and open answer from you is very important in terms of the Committee on Budgetary Control's, or Parliament's, ability to decide whether or not to grant you discharge with respect to the year 2001.
If the criticism was unjustified, as the Commission claims, we would of course clear this up, and all would be well.
Mr President, every autumn, as the trees drop their leaves, we in this House discuss the European Court of Auditors' annual report, the content of which changes very little from one year to the next.
This Commission has been promising a change for the better since 1999, but the fact that by May 2002, no real action had been taken to reform the accounting system is, according to the EDD Group, an absolute mockery.
Mr President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the report which our former colleague, Mr Fabra Vallés, is presenting to us today is important in terms of what it says and what it suggests.
Having said that, it goes without saying, Mr President, but above all, Commissioner, that this House is concerned by the Commission's accounting situation, and I must honestly say - even I who, as you know, always adopt a cautious attitude in the light of 'scandals' - that some decisions, such as the one taken this morning, do not, in my view, help the Commission to show that it can propose a legitimate reform of the accounting system and do this in good faith.
I believe, however, and the Court of Auditors says this, that this has nothing to do with the discovery of cases of fraud or poor management by the Commission, but I feel, in fact, that it is high time that this reform got off the ground, is discussed, and that it is carried out in all the institutions.
It is a rigorous, clear and very focused report, which provides us with precise information on how the budget has been implemented.
The most striking aspect of this report is, once again, the significant budgetary surplus for 2001: 16%.
It is a very high percentage, as the previous speakers have been repeating, especially if we analyse it in detail and realise that, of the Structural Funds, just 70% has been implemented and that the SAPARD budget has barely been implemented at all, despite the fact that it is an enormously important instrument for the new countries of the European Union.
There is absolutely no doubt that his experience as a former member of the Committee on Budgetary Control has been a great help to him in carrying out his work.
I would also like to thank the Commissioner for her kind words to me and I wish to offer her my particular thanks for the cooperation I have received from the Commission services in this discharge process.
The framework of budgetary implementation in 2001 outlined by this report is characterised by a very strong implementation of the budget, which in particular affects appropriations for the pre-accession and Structural Fund programmes, due to ongoing shortcomings in Community accounting procedures, which need to be reformed as a matter of urgency, and also due to the persistence of long-standing problems, such as the lack of transparency in the Commission's handling of the system of protection for the European sugar industry.
The modernisation of accounting and payment procedures, with clear, accessible and exhaustive codification of all expenditure, with the systematic notification of final beneficiaries and with clear and consistent terminology, are projects that we would like to see implemented.
The transparency of relations between the European institutions and the outside world is a recurring concern.
In a complex high level intermediation system it is sometimes easy to forget the citizens in favour of the pressure groups, overlooking those in greatest need in favour of those who are able to exert the most and the most effective pressure.
Mr President, many things have been said about the Commission's accounting system in the last six months.
The Commission has promised that its strategy for giving the EU an integrated accounting system based on the highest standards within the public sector will be presented at the end of this month.
I would have liked to equal that balance out from the 300 Commission spin-doctors that have been saying things about Marta Andreassen recently and point Members of Parliament's attention to the fact that she was gagged by that very same Commission this morning.
You wrote: 'Since the first statement of assurance in respect to the financial year 1994, the Court has repeated its reservations in respect to the reliability of the accounts.
I would say these are actually two quite shocking statements and, oddly enough, I would also say they back up exactly some of the things that Marta Andreassen, the Commission's former chief accountant, had been saying.
If, as you just said in your statement, the accounts are so reliable, then why write those things in your report?
Finally, I have one or two questions for the Commissioner because I am quite sure that you are a wise political manoeuvrer, Commissioner Schreyer.
Mr President, I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for its report again this year.
I am extremely disappointed that this is the first occasion on which the Court has been able to present its audit this year.
We hope, President, that you will continue in your efforts to make this clearer in future.
The main issue on which the Budget Control Committee is likely to concentrate this year is of course the accounting system of the Commission.
This is not because Marta Andreassen has told us that we should do that, but because the Court has been pointing out these failures since 1994.
The fact is that the Commission has been extremely slow in instigating those reforms and we still are unlikely to see a complete radical reform until 2005.
We must go much further and set a more ambitious timetable.
The truth is that today, with the information provided by the DAS, something very clear has to be taken into account: to speak of mistakes does not always mean speaking of irregularities, and speaking of irregularities does not always mean speaking of fraud.
Mr Staes asked me a question about the case of Mrs N.
When you ask whether we have already taken measures, I believe that the Court of Auditors has adopted a prudent attitude, waiting for the Solicitor-General to assess the documentation provided by OLAF, because member N has yet to be heard.
I specifically asked him whether I would be able to gain access to the dossier drafted by OLAF following the submission of my fraud dossier to the Court of Auditors.
Mr Staes, I am sorry for having left some of your questions out.
With regard to the contents of OLAF's report, until there is a response from the Solicitor-General, the affair is sub judice, and there is therefore nothing more to say.
Furthermore, in its report, OLAF makes it clear - and I will give you a small piece of information from the report - that the case of member 'N' is - and I quote - 'a specific case and the procedures used by the Court of Auditors for internal control are correct'.
Enlargement will be the most important item on the agenda of the European Council meeting in Copenhagen.
As you know, the Brussels European Council concluded that ten countries will be ready for membership from the beginning of 2004.
Last week, the Presidency presented a negotiating package for each of the candidate countries.
They take into account - as far as possible - the views of the candidate countries, as presented at separate meetings with each individual country, and they are in line with the financial framework for enlargement, that is to say, with the Berlin Agreement and with the decisions from the European Council meeting in Brussels in October.
The Presidency hopes that we can cover a lot of ground - as much as possible - in the negotiations before the European Council meeting in Copenhagen.
The Commission's communication of 13 November on a roadmap for the two countries is a good step in the right direction.
The countries of the EU were unanimous in emphasising that the many important reforms in Turkey have expedited the start of accession negotiations with that country.
The Presidency hopes that a solution to the Cyprus issue can be found ahead of Copenhagen.
If a solution is not found to the political conflict in Cyprus at the Copenhagen Summit, the EU will take its decision on the accession of Cyprus on the basis of the conclusions from the Helsinki European Council in 1999.
Setting the accession date for the new Member States entails a number of institutional consequences, and it is obviously important that Parliament is fully involved in the discussions on these consequences.
The Presidency fully understands Parliament's keen interest in the institutional consequences of enlargement, and is willing to enter into an open discussion on these matters.
Questions such as the weighting of individual countries' votes in the Council and the countries' representation in the European Parliament constitute an essential part of the accession treaty.
Agreement on the accession date of 1 May 2004 is based on detailed discussions on what is desirable and what is possible in the light of the ratification process in both the present and the future Member States.
The matter was discussed in detail over many years in connection with the revision of the Common Act on direct elections, which has recently been amended (published in the Official Journal of 21 October 2002).
I hope that Parliament appreciates the situation that the Commission will find itself in during the period between the accession of the new Member States and the investiture of the new Commission.
The Presidency hopes Parliament accepts that the interim Commissioners from the new countries will not be subject to hearings or approval by Parliament.
This avoids any possibility of prejudicing the new Parliament's opinion of the new Commission.
The proposed solution avoids any possibility of prejudicing the choice of candidates by the President-designate of the European Commission in the composition of the new Commission.
In my opinion it is natural that the discussion should take place within this committee, but if Parliament should wish for a different forum for the debate, on the date in question, 10 December, I am, of course, at your disposal.
The Seville European Council instructed the Danish Presidency to continue working on the question as to how the presidency will function in the future in an enlarged EU.
At the meeting in Copenhagen, the Chairman of the Convention will give a report on the progress that has been made in the Convention.
This dialogue is very important.
It is my hope and belief that all the countries at the meeting will show the necessary willingness to compromise and help to take the important decisions I have spoken of here.
In Copenhagen we hope to be able to take a historic decision on the greatest enlargement in the history of the Community to date, and I also dare say the enlargement with the most far-reaching consequences and the broadest historical perspective.
The great debate on enlargement that took place in Parliament last month is just one example of the strong will Parliament has shown, and the efforts it has made, to make this project succeed.
And, as I said at the start, this great project can only succeed if the three institutions work closely together.
I particularly note your intention to attend a meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 10 December 2002 to take up some of these institutional questions.
Perhaps in our own internal debate within the groups, we can see how to try to coordinate some positions and to what extent, if it is possible, we could advance or progress the sensitive questions on institutions.
First, however, let me say something about the decisions we must take to organise the three great changes which will take place in 2004: the accession of the new Member States, the appointment of the new Commission and the European Parliament elections.
The Brussels European Council brought agreement within the Union on the broad outlines of the offer to the ten candidate countries, in particular as regards the agricultural and budgetary issues.
The Presidency of the Council and the Commission have worked - and will continue to work - ceaselessly to reach an agreement.
Like the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Rasmussen, I consider that a reasonable offer should be made - an offer that allows the candidate countries to defend the Copenhagen outcome before public opinion in their own countries.
We must keep within the overall framework laid down at the Brussels European Council, but openness, flexibility and generosity are also needed.
I want to reiterate earnestly that most of the points of the final compromise must be decided at the forthcoming General Affairs Council meeting on 9 and 10 December.
In any case, the commitments entered into at Helsinki remain valid for the candidacy of Cyprus.
As you know, these two countries have proposed 2007 as their target date for accession and the Commission believes no effort must be spared to achieve that target.
In short, Turkey has come a long way but much remains to be done.
The new Turkish Government's legislative programme confirms this.
Indeed, the government plans to present several series of legislative measures, and even constitutional amendments, to the Turkish parliament in order to bolster democracy and human rights in Turkey.
It is in our interest that a major partner such as Turkey, whose role is enormously important strategically, politically and economically, should reinforce its institutions, improve the quality of its democracy and commit itself unequivocally to the values and principles we all share.
On the other hand, before we take an irreversible step, we must be sure that Turkey meets all the conditions fully, just as we have in the case of the other candidate countries.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, changes and developments are now occurring on at least a daily, even an hourly, basis, and so the picture I can give you at the moment is only a snapshot of that moment.
There are still very considerable differences in outlook between the Member States and the candidate countries, and any real result in Copenhagen will demand abundant political courage, far-sightedness, and a great deal of leadership.
Although it is now the accession of ten states that we are now organising rather than the six planned in Berlin in 1999, the Danish proposal is over EUR 2 billion below the upper limit laid down in Berlin.
The new Member States will have to pay full contributions from the very outset, but, as you know, the flow of funds is very slow, and it is subject to certain rules.
I believe that what makes this idea so good is the fact that it will persuade the citizens that money is being spent here for a purpose that is of benefit to us all.
In the situation as it is at the moment, in which we are closer than we have been in decades to resolving the Cyprus problem, and there is a real opportunity to sort the problem out - an opportunity that will pass us by if it is not done before Copenhagen - at a moment such as this, positive, encouraging signs are of extraordinary importance.
It would therefore be right and proper for the European institutions, even before Copenhagen, to speak out clearly in favour of the international community taking its share of responsibility in managing the great tasks that will remain to be dealt with after the Cyprus issue is resolved.
We must all be aware that if we do not act now, every month in which we hesitate will make things more and more difficult.
I am firmly convinced that it would take only six months for the Budget situation in the Member States to make a solution almost impossible.
This summit in Copenhagen must become a summit for enlargement.
Copenhagen must consummate the historic process of the 1980s and 1990s, and, to that end, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we wish you much success!
We therefore call on the governments to achieve a result in Copenhagen.
Ladies and gentlemen, the European Court of Justice is fifty years old today; at any rate, it was fifty years ago that it was convened for the first time, on 4 December 1952.
Some are very strongly in favour of Turkish membership, while others advocate a strategic or privileged partnership.
Now, I am also aware that there are countries in the European Union that lag behind others; in particular, that there is a major EU country that needs to make up for lost time in its solidarity with America, and this country is therefore susceptible to pressure.
It is on this basis that we seek good cooperation with all the institutions of the European Union.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Poettering, 'inshallah'.
We are on the eve of an important historical event: the reunification of Europe, rather than the conclusion of a new stage in enlargement, of which this is the fifth.
Vice-President Titley and other colleagues from my group will deal with all aspects of this issue.
I must say that I consider the behaviour over recent weeks of the Commission and the Council in relation to issues which are not only subject to negotiation with the enlargement countries, but which affect our daily life and the essence of Parliament, to be entirely unacceptable.
It was said that its mandate would last until January and now it turns out that the date for the end of the Commission's operations is being brought forward.
Secondly, the General Affairs Council of 18 November took a series of decisions which affect many areas, specifically, the parliamentary timetable for 2004, and which make this Parliament during the next legislature a concertina Parliament.
We will have Members who are here for just a month, and then we will have the incorporation of other Members from the candidate countries who will have joined the Union.
I hoped that in the 'trialogue', as President Prodi said, there would be progress on this issue.
And I would ask you please, and we are awaiting the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of 10 December, to raise these issues seriously at the European Council in Copenhagen, because this is not the way to act.
And finally, and I will end here, I still have hope because, as Alfonso X the Wise, a philosopher king, said, 'if God had consulted me on the day of the Creation, I would have given him some useful advice'.
The dialogue of last week had only one definitive context as far as Parliament is concerned: an opportunity for me to confirm in person what I had already done in writing, that Parliament would insist that no definitive decision on the question of dates should be arrived at without having an adequate dialogue and understanding between the institutions including Parliament.
Thereafter, because there is, from my own appreciation of the points made by different colleagues here, a diversity of parliamentary views, I was not in a position to express a definitive view except the view that there should be no final decision without our consent.
Many of the answers to that question are being teased out inside the Convention, but it is certainly up to the European Council and not the president, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, to decide just how far and how fast Member States are prepared to project the Union's experience in parliamentary democracy to the east and the south.
I trust that the European Council and the Commission will be generous to Turkey in this respect.
We should throw ourselves behind the process of regime change which is taking place in Turkey.
I wish to commend the Danish Presidency for managing to secure the release of Akhmed Zakayev before the great Copenhagen Summit gets under way.
I also wish to praise the Presidency for its hard work on enlargement.
I am against the idea of bringing forward the elections, against decisions which would not change anything in terms of historic opportunities and could lead us, in my view, to speed things up, leading us inevitably to failure.
We must find an interim solution for the new commissioners during the six-month period.
I think that the most important thing, and no one has mentioned this, is that, if the Convention succeeds - and I hope it will - in convincing everyone that the President of the Commission must be elected by Parliament, and if the IGC accepts this, I shall, in that case, call on the Council to bring forward the ratification, because this procedure could take 18 months otherwise.
It is therefore absolutely essential that the Council anticipates and accepts what has been decided by the Convention and by the IGC, and therefore that, when the next Commission is constituted, and this is the most important thing in my eyes, the next President is elected by Parliament, thus anticipating what is decided by the Convention and the IGC.
What we must say today, therefore, is 'no' to those who say that Turkey is not part of Europe, and 'no' as well to those in the US and the UK who tell us that Turkey must at all costs be part of Europe.
There are important debates to be held, but I call on the President of Parliament and the President-in-Office of the Council to write a letter to the Turkish Government and tell it, in order to give it the opportunity to prove his good intentions, that we are organising a meeting in Strasbourg for all the Sakharov Prize winners, and that, in the light of this meeting, Leila Zana must be freed in order to be able to take part.
This is what can be done in the near future, Mr President.
We cannot operate on the same budget with 25 Member States as we did with 15.
Mr President, we are standing on the threshold of a truly historic European Council where we expect the final political decision will be taken to give the green light to ten applicant countries to become full Member States in 2004.
Enlargement to welcome ten new States and tens of millions of new European citizens into the EU is both a bold gesture and the accomplishment of our true European destiny.
I also hope that a genuine and significant decision will be made in relation to the Turkish application for membership.
It is clear that Turkey has a key role to play in shaping the European Union of the future and we must do all in our power to guarantee that the new Turkish Government is given full support and encouragement in its desire to make their country meet the Copenhagen criteria so as to begin accession negotiations.
Mr President, the Copenhagen Summit will be a historic event.
Ten countries will be able to join the EU from 2004, two countries from 2007, and Turkey will probably be given a date for its next meeting.
If the referendums confirm membership, this membership becomes a reality, and the countries should have the same right of veto in matters of treaty amendments as the present Member States.
Just a few words about the next point on the agenda.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, expressing the opinion that emerged on the institutional implications of enlargement.
We cannot afford not to carry out a meticulous analysis with the excuse that these are political issues and that we therefore ought not to go into too much detail or that these are technical issues and it is not worth wasting time on them.
The solutions must be sustainable, respect the Treaties, meet a number of institutional criteria and be decided upon by agreement between the Council, the Commission and Parliament, whereas the Council communication of 21 November sought to present us with faits accomplis.
Firstly, we believe that transitional arrangements relating to the composition of both the Commission and the European Parliament must be kept to a minimum or avoided.
The Council has specified the date of 1 May 2004 for the formal entry into the Union of the new Member States.
Similarly, joining the European Parliament after 1 May, the representatives of the new Member States would only be in office for a few weeks, for a single part-session, before the election of the new Parliament.
In conclusion, if we stick to the date of 1 May 2004, the most sensible solution would appear to be to bring the European Parliament elections forward and schedule them for that same month of May.
The President-in-Office has told us that such attempts have failed in the past.
In particular, the European Parliament elections - why should they not be held on 9 May 2004, immediately after the accession of the new Member States - would assume particular importance and this might stimulate greater, more enthusiastic participation of the electorate.
Moreover, it would allow us to carry out the election - if the Commission President is to be appointed by election, as we too hope - or, in any case, the vote on the appointment of the President of the Commission, during the June part-session of the European Parliament and to complete the process of examining the Members of the Commission and endorsing their appointment by the end of July, with the new Commission taking office on 1 August, without the need for dubious transitional measures and with all the Commissioners having full legitimacy and equal status.
At the same time, a decision needs to be taken to bring forward the end of the Commission's mandate.
To this end, we need an interinstitutional agreement which brings forward the end of the Commission's term of office and the date of the European Parliament elections, and we call strongly for such an interinstitutional agreement.
Mr Haarder, you said that the future new Member States must also be able to exercise the right of veto at the Intergovernmental Conference, in other words they must have exactly the same rights as the Member States without actually being Member States, only acquiring this status as of 1 May 2004.
We would like to know how this tallies with Article 48 of the Treaty.
Mr President, for the record, my name is pronounced van Velzen.
I also think that we should expressly mention this in Copenhagen, so that our citizens know what the newly-acceding Member States are up against in the coming year and a half.
If we do engage in such a discussion at present, we would of course be flouting our own laws and rules, as Mr Poettering has already pointed out.
I am therefore in favour of abandoning this curious debate.
Surely, farming in Poland with less than one and a half acres is mainly a social problem, one that should be dealt with in Poland, and the European Union might well be able to play a major role in this.
I would therefore call for more attention to be given to this area, and it would surely be extremely sad if Poland and the Polish Government were to be prevented from striking an agreement simply by our inability to offer a somewhat more targeted programme and, above all, to allow the Polish Government to develop a somewhat more targeted programme for their own farmers.
Mr President, you will recall that when we had our great debate with the accession countries in Strasbourg, I finished my contribution by quoting an English saying that there is many a slip 'twixt cup and lip.
For once, I disagree with Commissioner Verheugen.
Unfortunately, in doing so, particularly a couple of weeks in advance, they seem only to have encouraged some of the applicant States to believe that this is just one more stage in the negotiations and quite frankly we have to be clear that it is not.
We also must be clear that this project is so important that we are not prepared to let any one country sabotage the whole negotiations.
If any one country wants to hold out until the last possible moment, they do so at their own risk and not at the risk of all the other accession countries, because we must be prepared to agree as each country is prepared to agree.
Equally, I must urge our leaders to ask themselves a simple question before they go to Copenhagen.
Let us think of the big picture and remember that the money we are giving to the accession countries represents one thousandth of the GDP of the European Union.
The entire EU budget is only two thirds of what the British Government spends on social security alone.
We are actually talking about what are minor issues in the global picture of things.
But let us kill off once and for all this idea that Europe is a Christian project only.
Mr President, the Copenhagen European Council which is being held next week will have one major, important task: to conclude accession negotiations with ten candidate countries.
It will be necessary to iron out a few last-minute financial difficulties, but we have great hopes and we particularly welcome the fact that France is willing to look at the latest proposals by the Danish Presidency in a favourable light.
The second major item on the Copenhagen agenda will be Turkey's candidacy.
The 1999 Helsinki European Council made a serious mistake, which has unfortunately not been made good, but has since been confirmed.
In fact, in our opinion, Mr President, the Convention, under whose influence I do not know, has been too hasty in preparing technical proposals without first having answered fundamental political questions which influence them.
I am convinced that, of all the political events we have experienced, it is this one that will be the most important for all the generations now living.
If some far-sighted person fifteen years ago had written out the agenda for this European Council, as it now is, complete with the reunification of Europe, he would have been thought to be deluded!
A few days ago, Commissioner Verheugen was quoted in a German newspaper as saying that he was against Turkey joining and that he proposed to the Turks the establishment of a special relationship as neighbours, a treaty that could also apply to other countries contiguous to the EU.
I am sure, Commissioner Verheugen, that you will explain this as a misunderstanding or a misinterpretation and, quite rightly, point out that this represents a breach of the confidentiality you presumably agreed on.
Mr President, there are just two questions I would like to touch on.
The Commission is right if it thinks that a range of difficult issues remain to be resolved, and we can be grateful to the Presidency of the Council for coming up with a number of proposals on them.
My personal opinion is that every country, from the first day of membership, is entitled to a Commissioner, even if a Commissioner without portfolio.
This brings us, of course, to the detailed procedure for the new Parliament.
Mr President, I would like to address the major risk I think the Council meeting in Copenhagen may comprise in terms of the EU as a peace project.
We are all talking about the historic decision in Copenhagen.
The EU has been incredibly successful in bringing people and states closer together in the European Union.
In this situation, it is being discussed at a very high level in the Council whether Turkey should be given a date for a meeting where a new date for membership negotiations for this country would be set.
Of course we recognise that new Member States have a right to a Commissioner as from day one of their membership of the European Union.
Both scenarios would be a little bit odd unless they were subject to an agreement among the three institutions.
Another way would be for the Council to put it in the accession treaty but again if they were to do that unilaterally, without consensus and agreement, that would undermine the spirit of the Treaties.
Under those circumstances, it would make sense, as has been suggested, to bring the date of the elections forward from June to May, because then the new house in June could already vote on the President and in July we could have the hearings and vote on the Commission as a whole, which could then begin, if that were agreed, already in August or September.
That would allow us to go forward more speedily.
It would get rid of the problems of Commissioners without portfolios for a lengthily period and it would make sense in its own right to have the elections early in May, which is a good idea on its own merits.
I think that is the route the Council should pursue in dialogue with us.
Whatever we do - whether we prefer to elect the new Commission or think it even better that it should be appointed - there will still be a transitional period in which the new candidates will be entitled to cooperate with the present Commission in nominating Commissioners.
Whether it be four weeks or four months, the principle remains the same and indissoluble.
I would like to express my gratitude to the Danish Presidency of the Council for having been able, while focussing their efforts on enlargement, to cooperate successfully with the Commission in guiding these enlargement negotiations to what is evidently a good result.
The necessary compromises will have to be reached in a spirit of goodwill and will, of course - as Commissioner Verheugen so rightly said - have to be well-crafted, and I am sure that we will succeed in this.
I indicated that I made it clear that I wanted no definitive decision made on questions of dates and transition without the Parliament being fully involved, engaged and consulted.
Mr President, I should like to concur with Mr Brok.
This does not detract in any way from the primary importance of those agricultural reforms to the enlargement countries, candidate countries, to us ourselves, and to the developing countries.
What we need is the courage to do our homework in the area of agricultural reforms, and this is also necessary to help the dollar round succeed.
Indeed, we may talk about a development round, but if no firmer and broader-based proposals benefiting agricultural reforms are tabled, then things will take a turn for the worse and this round will fail.
In that case, we will not have done our homework, which is necessary if the accession countries are to be treated fairly.
Could I add that I hope that the discussions we are having here will somehow serve as a lesson to us in the next step towards enlargement by the accession of more countries?
Let us have a less ambiguous and earlier debate with our electorates, and let us have the courage to ask for their opinions in good time by means of a European referendum.
I do not know about 'now or never', but in any case it is time for action.
The EU and the international community must declare in plain terms their readiness to give the necessary assistance to meet the great challenges reunification will present to Cyprus and its two communities.
These two countries have made tremendous progress in their accession negotiations, but are not ready yet.
I believe that the Council has now stated - and in any case I have stated four or five times here in Parliament on behalf of the Council - that the new countries will be put on a completely equal footing with the old Member States at the Intergovernmental Conference, where a new treaty is to be adopted.
If only nine applicant countries are ready, they will join.
I think - no one will be surprised at this - that when we reach the final stage of a negotiating process that involves a lot of money people start to back pedal in public, and those who will have to pay start to say it is too much and those who want something say it is too little.
That means no one is a net payer and they are all in a much better position than in 2003.
We should not forget that the gross national product of the countries of Eastern and Central Europe is only five per cent of that of the present European Union.
The proposal that we put forward was in fact intended precisely to make possible a socially cushioned, sensible structural development of agriculture in the new Member States.
The problem is, however, that we did not have that option.
But we know that the 15 governments of the Member States are unanimous in the view that we must stick to the Helsinki strategy.
Regarding the institutional questions, the Commission is of course more than willing to enter into intensive discussions here at any time, and as always the Commission will not have the slightest problem; on the contrary, it will seek to ensure that Parliament's rights are fully safeguarded.
Without a date we would have been unable to negotiate the financial chapter, because the date has enormous consequences for the financial situation in the first year of membership.
So far as the Commission is concerned, I would like to point out once again that it suggested avoiding the transitional Commission with 30 commissioners and therefore offered to cut its term of office short, but it proved impossible to negotiate this.
Candidate countries and Member States took the view that the new commissioners must be there from the first day of accession.
WRITTEN STATEMENT (RULE 120) Mr President, the EU's enlargement by ten new Member States will be a triumph for democracy if we also manage to adapt our institutions in such a way as to ensure that this enlarged Union, with its half a billion inhabitants, can also function more effectively, transparently and democratically.
This presupposes more say for the directly elected European Parliament, but also more of a Union in which peoples and regions feel at home.
All future Member States have made huge efforts to meet the Copenhagen criteria and to integrate the acquis into their legislation and national fabrics.
Turkey cannot demand a date in Copenhagen.
It is obvious that Turkey itself has a long way to go before it can meet the Copenhagen criteria.
This should not only be evident from its legislation but also be based on reality.
This does not only depend on the Turkish Government or parliament but, above all, on the attitude of the army, and as long as the army holds such a key position, Turkey cannot be considered a democracy in the true sense of the word.
I would add something else: we must resolve this issue during this legislature, before it comes to an end, given the political importance it has.
I tabled my question in the quest for greater support and consensus within the European Parliament because I believe it is necessary and I must say that my group believes that this is an issue which must be defined with the greatest possible transparency, both with regard to the constitutional aspects of the Statute and the rules which we have to lay down for ourselves.
As the President is well aware, it was I who proposed the amendment to the de Palacio report which was approved by 455 votes.
We are all equal here.
This House has been considering the Members' Statute since 1998.
The Rothley report, which was initially adopted by the European Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs as an opinion for our President and the Conference of Presidents, is the only document in this House to contain a really comprehensive proposal for a Members' Statute.
This oral question and this resolution have again been put on the agenda so that we can make progress in the debate about the Statute, not to hinder it.
The Council again raised other problems and issues and in the end we have made not the slightest progress.
I should like to say that, as has been pointed out, the Council wishes to help find a solution that guarantees the individual Member dignity and public respect.
Regarding the way in which such a statute is to be implemented, I must of course point out that the rules governing its implementation are set down in Article 190, paragraph 5 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, in which it is stated that it falls to the European Parliament, after seeking an opinion from the Commission and with the approval of the Council, to determine its Members' status and the general conditions governing the performance of duties.
When the Treaty of Nice has come into force, the Council will be able to take decisions by a qualified majority and no longer only by acting unanimously, as has been the case up until now.
Even if it is the case that Parliament adopted a draft proposal for a statute on 3 December 1998, that is to say before the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force, Parliament has since debated the new guidelines, namely in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
According to the positions laid down so far by the Council, there must, first of all, be concordance between the Statute and primary law, for example concerning immunities and privileges.
Secondly, agreement in the Council on the tax issue must be respected and, finally, there must be transparency and respect for the principle of reimbursing expenses on the basis of expenditure that has in actual fact been incurred.
In my view, the statement from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market from April of this year does not fulfil all these conditions, and I can understand why Parliament's President has been given the same message in his informal contacts with the governments of the Member States.
I also appreciate why, on the basis of his contacts with the Member States, Parliament's President has drawn a number of conclusions regarding elements of a compromise which, once the Treaty of Nice has come into force, will be able to attract the necessary majority in the Council.
In conclusion, I would therefore welcome all efforts aimed at a solution acceptable to both the Council and Parliament.
We tabled the question, which was endorsed by the President-in-Office, in order to give you an even greater chance of finding a solution.
I believe that, in adopting this text, Parliament will be increasing this possibility even more.
We talk about strengthening democracy and not just about salaries, we talk about the dignity of Parliament, whose Members represent 380 million citizens of the European Union, and not just about reimbursement and allowances.
In 1999 the European Council itself called on us - we have quoted it - to bring the question of the Members' Statute to a conclusion as a matter of urgency.
I know there are still problems with primary law, but they can be solved and I would be very grateful if the Council would concentrate on this question and send us concrete pointers for a solution.
Mr President, the reason this motion and this debate are on our agenda is due to the insistence of the Christian Democrats and Conservatives in the PPE-DE, and the Socialists and Social Democrats in the PSE.
My group is in favour of equal conditions for all Members in a Members' Statute but this motion makes it harder and more difficult for us to achieve such a statute.
Mr Rothley's opinion wants to include in the Members' Statute issues of primary law such as immunities and privileges which require ratification by national parliaments.
The message that they are sending to MEPs who want reform is 'forget it'.
My party's joint resolution with the GUE/NGL and Verts/ALE Groups calls for a common statute, agreed with national governments in the Council, giving equality of treatment to MEPs and transparency in our allowances.
Mr Barón Crespo accuses me of heaping invective on the socialists.
The answer is that you heap invective on yourselves and you deserve it.
As it happens, the Confederal Group of the European United Left-Nordic Green Left believes it is necessary to ensure total transparency in the conditions governing the exercise of the parliamentary mandate and to dispel any idea of privileges for Members.
In my view and in the view of the broad majority of my group, that requires two things: the first is that we need a statute in the very near future, in other words, some time before the June 2004 elections.
The second requirement, in our view, is that the content of the proposals that we put forward must respect the positions of principle that I mentioned earlier - particularly transparency and the rejection of any notion of privilege.
It is quite simply to explain why my group is opposed - and has already said so - to Parliament sending the document by the Committee on Legal Affairs to the Council in its current form.
To give just two examples, Article 9 of the document claims to guarantee future Members virtual impunity.
Those of you who wish to come to a swift agreement with the Council on a Members' Statute must not, at tomorrow's vote, approve the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs in its current form as this report would obviously rule out the prospect of reaching an effective agreement on a statute.
On the other hand, by voting in favour of the compromise resolution by Parliament's three 'pivotal' groups, you will leave the way clear to seek an agreement that the broad majority of us, of you, say you want.
We want a statute to be achieved and all these matters that annoy our citizens so much to be resolved.
We want all the money paid to us in the form of salary and expenses to be as transparent as possible and justifiable in the eyes of the public.
Articles 189 and 190 clearly stipulate that the Members of this House are representatives of the people who elected them.
Secondly, relocation and other costs should be fully refunded, but within a reasonable limit obviously.
We have thought for a long time that this proposal offers a good compromise between several objectives.
During the last three years or so, we have talked a lot but realistically we have achieved much less.
Mr President, I rather suspect that voters outside this House would have some difficulty understanding what is going on here this afternoon and indeed some of us may.
I have sat in this House now for three years through innumerable discussions on this issue and we seem to move no further forward.
Instead, we are bogged down in this interminable roundabout of discussion on procedure.
Let us be clear, there is a very practical paragraph in the joint motion from three parties that would allow a practical process to take off.
So, be on notice: if you block that amendment, you block progress, you block this House from getting an open procedure that will lead to a statute and you stop this Parliament becoming worthy of the name of parliament and you will leave our citizens even more bemused and sceptical.
The cause of our problem actually lies in the fact that, although we have all been elected to this House, we are not treated equally.
The President has told us that we have now almost reached our destination and we therefore wanted to know from the Council what matters are still outstanding and how we will reach our destination.
No national mandate can be compared with the mandate in the European Parliament.
The time involved is greater, the distance is greater and we have less time at home than any of our counterparts.
We have a decision from the Committee for Legal Affairs and the Internal Market which forms the basis for the President's talks.
We have a group of experts that has come to a conclusion so that no one can say we are arranging things to our own liking.
With this question we wanted greater transparency instead of rumours, greater clarity instead of recriminations.
The question to the Council went: Is the Council, at the level of Heads of State or Government, prepared to enter into a dialogue with the European Parliament about the circumstances for the adoption of the Statute of Members?
Now Parliament has agreed on something there are prospects of the Council's adopting and approving, I assume that the ball will be passed on to the Council.
I shall not go into details concerning the statement by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market to Parliament's Conference of Presidents.
It must be possible for these things to be done, Mr President.
The Council must now take decisive action. 'Nunca mais' - never again.
Mr President, the Prestige disaster in Galicia has the consequences of a natural disaster, but in truth it is a political disaster.
It is political because neither the Member States, nor the European Union itself, nor this Parliament were able to take appropriate measures at the time to prevent ships such as the Prestige - and there are hundreds of them - from moving around Community waters.
It is political because this Parliament, despite the fact that there have been seven disasters similar to that of the Prestige over the last twenty years off the Galician coast, did not have the courage to lay down legislation similar to the United States' Oil Pollution Act, so that we could prevent this type of vessel, which are time bombs operated by criminal capitalist mafias, from moving through these waters.
At the moment therefore, Mr President, since there is no European emergency plan to deal with these problems, hundreds and hundreds of Galician vessels are trying - together with the help of many States, whom we thank - to prevent the fuel oil from entering the Galician Rias.
In the Arosa Ria, 500 small vessels are trying to resolve, through small-scale methods, a problem which is the responsibility of the Spanish State and the European Union.
I will end, Mr President, by saying the following: I believe that the Presidency of this Parliament should go to Galicia and demonstrate human compassion and a desire to resolve the problem which that country, like many others, is suffering from; but especially Galicia, which is suffering this problem more than anywhere else in the world, should be shown the compassion and assistance it deserves.
We, in Scotland, recently in the case the Braer disaster suffered a similar misfortune.
Tonight's debate on fisheries brings up an interesting example which shows what the reality of the issue is.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to express my solidarity, as a Portuguese citizen, with our neighbours in Galicia who have suffered this tragedy.
Above all, he should express the solidarity of this Parliament and add force, on our behalf, to the requests to strengthen European measures in this field, which will probably be discussed at the Copenhagen Summit next week.
I think everyone who has eyes to see and ears to hear must recognise that our existing fisheries policy enables us neither to guarantee our fishermen and all those families that depend on fishing a future nor to create stable conditions that will allow our fishery resources to remain available for future generations.
I would, however, like to say a word about the Prestige disaster, ladies and gentlemen.
I contacted the Spanish authorities myself at the very start of this disaster and I am keeping in touch with those in positions of responsibility there, and since it now appears that France, too, will be more severely affected than was previously anticipated, the same principles will of course also be applied and the same assistance made available for France.
As you know, in October ISIS published the news that four of the Community's cod stocks are close to collapse.
The ISIS scientists have recommended - quite clearly and unambiguously - that in the absence of a recovery plan direct cod fishing should be discontinued for the next year in the North Sea, the Irish Sea, the waters west of Scotland, the Skagerrak and Kattegat.
Reducing cod catches in the last few years has not been enough and unfortunately we now find that quota reductions have resulted in false returns being made and illegal fishing.
The scientists have repeatedly warned that we should not only set quotas, but that we must also reduce the fishing effort so that we are able both to make better controls and to ensure that unwanted catches are not too high and that the total allowable catches are appropriate.
Subsequently we presented the ISIS findings to our Scientific and Technical Committee on Fisheries, and it again recommended that we should adopt a recovery plan for cod as soon as possible, a plan which, apart from cutting TACs and quotas more than originally planned, must also reduce the fishing effort accordingly.
As you know, the Commission proposed a year ago that the fishing effort be limited as part of a recovery plan for cod and hake.
To this day the Council has taken no decision on it, and the situation has got worse in the meantime.
Parliament, however, gave its opinion on this recovery plan on 13 June this year.
We have decided against a moratorium, going instead for an improved recovery plan, precisely because we must take both the scientific findings and the difficult situation of our fishermen seriously.
Firstly, in terms of catches the big reduction in the fishing effort means a total allowable catch in the North Sea for the Community and Norway of 16 800 tonnes of cod, 31 600 tonnes of haddock, 10 400 tonnes of whiting, 60 000 tonnes of plaice and 16 000 tonnes of sole.
I am also willing to fund further research work to help us find even better ways to rescue this fishery.
I would like to pick out just three of those measures.
Firstly, Member States are urged to adjust their structural programmes and provide additional resources for the fishing industry and areas dependent on fishing.
Secondly, Member States can introduce targeted measures for small-scale, employment-intensive coastal fishing.
They can, for example, reserve certain fishing grounds for small vessels or they can gear their programmes to the coastal fleet in order to preserve jobs in the coastal regions in particular.
Ladies and gentlemen, I turn now to the other topics on the agenda today, firstly and in particular Mr Jové's report.
The four crucial elements of this basic regulation are as follows: Firstly, we want in future to manage stocks on a multi-annual basis.
Applying an annual principle to fish is not consistent with fish biology; instead, we must make the biological cycles of our fish stocks the essence of our policy.
Satellite surveillance will gradually be extended to smaller vessels, and finally there will also be greater powers for the Commission concerning controls in the Member States.
Fourthly, we want the fishing industry to be more closely involved in decision-making in the regional advisory councils.
The fact is that if the Council fails to find a compromise this December and does not reach a decision on reform, we will not be able to use any more money for fleet policy after 1 January 2003.
That is the legal consequence of the Council's decision of December last year.
Firstly, we propose retaining those public aids that serve to improve safety, working conditions and hygiene on board.
It is designed not as a long-term scheme but an emergency measure and is intended to help us restore a better balance between the sizes of our fleets and the available resources.
These resources and the new fund will guarantee financial support for laying up fishing vessels.
Firstly, a 20% higher premium, but with a time limit, for ships whose days at sea are cut by at least 25% and, secondly, an additional EUR 32 million available for scrapping in the coming year.
In any event, I would like to apologise to the members of the Committee on Fisheries because my speech is going to consist not so much of comments on the final result of the report - and I would like to stress that I have not presented any amendment to the final result of the vote in the Committee on Fisheries - but rather on the Commission's proposal.
We are dealing with a proposal which presents various problems - several in my opinion - in terms of the lack of compatibility with the Treaties and elements of legislation.
To this end it would be necessary, firstly, to improve the quality of scientific information and, furthermore, to introduce economic and social elements into the drawing up of recovery plans.
The Commission has presented two difficult, complex and very restrictive proposals on, for example, cod fishing.
Furthermore, and this is very serious, the destruction of jobs has been much greater than that of resources, and this has happened in all the States of the European Union despite the exceptions, the protection measures and discriminations, some relating to access.
If the Committee on Fisheries can give any help at all, we will do whatever is necessary and find whatever help we can muster to aid the people of Galicia.
Cuts of this magnitude would wipe out the white fish sector in the United Kingdom and Ireland and destroy many thousands of jobs in those countries, as well as in France, Scandinavia and the Netherlands.
I hope that this House will support me in saying that we demand that right and that we intend to have our say and our full consultation will be called for on these revised proposals.
In the interests of enhancing this debate, I want to ask the Commission why they are prepared to accept the flawed and out-of-date scientific data on which they have based their call for these draconian cuts, because the ICES scientific data was collected in the year 2001, before stringent conservation measures were put in place, the benefits of which have not yet been measured.
For example: the fishermen in my constituency in Scotland extended mesh sizes to 120 millimetres, they suffered the 12 week closure of 40 000 square miles of cod spawning grounds in the North Sea last spring, 170 vessels were scrapped under the latest decommissioning rounds, leaving many thousands of tonnes of fish swimming in the sea that would otherwise have been caught.
The impact of these measures has not yet been analysed by the scientists, nor has the possibility that rising temperatures, pollution or the North Atlantic drift may have contributed to the migration of cod further northwards towards Iceland and the Faroes where many thousands of tonnes of cod are regularly being caught.
Indeed the same scientists who are calling for a minimum closure of six years for our white fish industry cannot guarantee that the cod will ever return to the North Sea even if we implement these measures.
By the end of six years of intended closure, at the very minimum, such measures would be academic in any case because according to the most recent socio-economic impact study, up to 44 000 fishermen and ancillary workers would have lost their jobs.
The sums forecast for implementing the reform, however, are fairly modest, and include, in Chapter B-II 90, 'Support measures for the Common Fisheries Policy': EUR 1 million to create a joint inspection structure, EUR 100 000 to create four regional advisory councils and EUR 1 million to improve scientific advice.
The Committee on Budgets is in favour of these three actions under the reform and has approved the sums proposed, keeping them in reserve as proposed by the Commission, pending the definitive adoption of the framework regulation.
The Committee on Budgets nonetheless considers that Parliament should be able to examine closely the detailed proposals presented by the Commission on each one of these actions, taking account of their repercussions, in particular on human resources, administrative spending and missions and Comitology meetings.
As this is not clear, however, my question to the Commission is this: is the EUR four million increase - three plus one - allocated to improving scientific advice, as stipulated in the framework Regulation, or on the contrary, will this action benefit solely from the EUR one million held in reserve?
We therefore need to implement other less drastic, reversible measures, such as evaluating the number of vessels to which this measure would apply, and the Committee on Budgets is therefore only giving its opinion on the financial impact of scrapping.
The draft Regulation stipulates an initial sum of EUR 32 million for 2003, as a special incentive for cofinancing.
The Committee on Budgets considers that financing the new action is incompatible with the maximum limit under Heading 2 of the current financial perspective and that it will therefore only be possible to make available the EUR 32 million already laid down for the 2003 budget by mobilising additional appropriations using the instruments provided for by the interinstitutional agreement.
What we are also in the process of losing is a very important coastal and fishing culture in almost all European countries, which is possibly the worst catastrophe as far as we are concerned.
We bear responsibility not only for those living today but also for the future of our children and our grandchildren.
A Member State, and in particular a region, in this case, a disadvantaged, peripheral, objective 1 region that lives principally from the sea and associated industries - involving 54 of the 62 economic sectors contained in Community input-output tables - over 10% of the gross domestic product, such as tourism, etc., are significantly affected.
I would like to reiterate the statements made recently by the Galician Government: the European Union cannot merely be a dream of unity, but must also be a genuine source of solidarity that supports each and every one of its citizens at times of misfortune in any country, whether in the North, the South, the East or the West.
Europe will become a reality when it is sensitive to the problems faced by its citizens.
Galicia is the answer to these questions and Galicia must be the proposed location.
What we need to scrap, Commissioner, are not fishing boats, but old oil tankers.
When will we assess the damage caused to fishing by other activities?
In 2004 or 2005, we will have to reform the Structural Funds.
We shall see then whether all aid must be stopped.
If it stops, it will have to be stopped for all, but for now we want the plans laid down to be fulfilled, and we want the European Union to have a renewed, modern, safe fishing fleet in 2006.
Today, Commissioner, in reality, the painful situation that my country, Galicia, is currently experiencing as a result of the Prestige tragedy takes precedence over any other consideration.
I believe the three aspects are inextricably linked as parts of a whole.
The proposal on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy must be based on and committed to sustainable development and environmental protection.
Commissioner, a Galician newspaper this morning contained the following: 'the European Fisheries Commissioner says that cutting off aid would mitigate job losses.
Mr President, Commissioner, I was going to talk about the reports presented to Parliament and congratulate the rapporteurs, since they have all done an excellent job, but you chose to refer to the disaster that is destroying Galicia.
The twenty thousand people who live from fishing in Galicia do not understand you very well.
We have listened to the Commissioner for Transport, who, in the face of the total lack of activity by the Spanish and Galician Governments, has drawn up practical proposals in order to table them at the Council, so that we might address this disaster and prevent a reoccurrence.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party supports the Commission's proposals for reform, containing those elements necessary to our being able to adapt the Community's fishing fleet to the ocean's resources.
Under no circumstances, however, can we accept a continuation of the present situation, in which the European fishing fleet is becoming larger and larger at the taxpayer's expense.
One of the biggest problems for the European fishing industry is, specifically, that the fleet is too big.
With regard to the proposed ban on cod fishing, we in the ELDR Group would like to support the conservation arrangements.
Research must therefore be accorded high priority, and sufficient resources must be made available.
I would remind you that one proposal which we tabled previously has already been adopted here, calling for this derogation to be extended to 24 nautical miles.
At least the permanent nature of 12 miles should not now be called into question!
The adoption of the proposal that we tabled to extend this derogation to 50 miles in the outermost regions under the terms of their special status is also extremely positive.
This special status, when confirmed by the Council, will provide clear advantages for the protection of the fisheries sector in the autonomous regions of Madeira, the Azores and in all the outermost regions, thereby contributing to their development.
As we have pointed out, there are other alternative ways of reducing the fishing effort, which have already been referred to here, such as the system based on regulating days at sea, the adoption of biological recovery periods and technical measures geared to more selective fishing.
It must be said, Commissioner, that in certain regions, what causes the greatest destruction of fish stocks is not fishing, but pollution.
And, now, unfortunately, we have the case of the Prestige, showing that this is sadly true: what causes the greatest destruction are these accidents; the old and unsafe oil tankers that still sail around our coasts.
The scrapping of vessels must be seen as a last resort, bearing in mind that any new policy to reduce fleet capacity must be based on the degree of true compliance with previously set objectives and must not further penalise those who have already fulfilled these objectives.
We need to go further.
The participation of fishermen and their representative organisations in the decision-making process is also crucial to the common fisheries policy and to stock management, specifically through co-management, so as to guarantee genuine decentralisation.
Mr President, in the CFP reform process, I have consistently favoured retaining the founding principle of relative stability - installing the coastal zones as a permanent feature of the CFP at least up to 12 miles and strengthening the role of the proposed regional advisory councils so that real involvement of stakeholders can be achieved.
But I believe that all of the positive potential of CFP reform could be in vain if the Commission does not show itself to be willing to really listen to those who are actually affected by fisheries policy.
Our fisheries policy must be understood and not just perceived as something being arbitrarily handed down by a European Union which claims to know better but cannot really prove it.
The cod crisis that has been looming over the North Sea for almost two years has seen fishermen already being subject to real-time closures, to swingeing cuts in fleet size and a variety of technical measures including increased mesh sizes.
Their efforts have borne at least some fruit in that the improvement of stocks of cod is only approximately 3% short of the target set by recovery plans.
The present crisis only underlines the fragility of that sea and the key stocks in its mixed fishery.
The Commission proposal is based on the principle of sustainable development and the poor state of fishery resources.
The starting point is indisputable but many views, including my own, differ as to the quantification of the state of stocks.
The basis of the proposal is that account is taken exclusively of scientific reports as regards management measures.
They envisage a common fisheries policy which is geared more to the short-term interests of some Member States than to fishermen.
I say to the Commission that the CFP must be geared towards keeping alive regions which depend on fishing rather than making it a battlefield between Member States.
Recovery plans must seek a balance between the recovery and conservation of stocks and measures to limit the impact on the fishing industry.
The basic objective of the 6 to 12 miles coastal zone regime was to protect fishery resources by reserving access to small scale coastal fishery activities.
In general, this puts less pressure on stocks in these zones which often harbour nurseries in juveniles.
The current critical situation of many stocks makes it more urgent now than ever, not merely to roll out the 6 to 12 mile access regime which is totally inadequate, but rather to roll out the exclusive zone to 24 miles if we are serious about conserving stocks.
I ask you to support my amendments to extend the exclusive coastal fishing zone to 24 miles.
Waters in this zone are important spawning grounds, which is why there has been a derogation from free access in these waters.
For this reason, and for many years, my group has been calling for a greater involvement of fishermen in the ways the common fishery policy is run.
The Commission has now adopted this idea, which I welcome, by proposing the creation of regional advisory councils which will include fishermen and their organisations for the very first time.
If these councils are to play a meaningful role in the future, fishermen must be involved in all phases of the management process.
In conclusion, let me say unequivocally, as I did during the debate on the Stevenson report, that the common fisheries policy is not only about fish, it is also, and more importantly, about fishermen.
Mr President, the Souchet report, which we recently adopted by a very broad majority, has already strongly recommended maintaining state aid for the modernisation of fishing fleets.
The European Parliament must confirm its support for maintaining this aid and must not approve the proposals by the Commission which is seeking to withdraw it on the pretext of preserving the marine environment.
By using a modern and suitably equipped fleet and using more selective and controlled fishing methods, we will encourage the sustainable management of resources and combat fraud.
We would like answers to all these questions.
The fact that all the proposed measures need a soft social and economic landing is one of our main demands and I think we all now agree on that.
Mr President, we need to ensure the viability of the sector that is vital for employment and economic and social cohesion in the Union's coastal areas.
Parliament's resolution the green paper identified the fundamental aim of the CFP as attaining a balance between the two.
This makes it clear that such councils should have a real role in helping to formulate and to implement the measures needed under the reformed CFP.
Mr President, the provisions which will be put to the vote on Thursday will form the principal CFP regulation for the next ten years and will represent the arrangements for fishing subsidies and the creation of an emergency fund designed to resolve the problem of overcapacity of the Union's fleets.
It is up to the Member States to decide on their plan of action during this time.
Until now, it has primarily been industrial fishing which has been increasingly encouraged, and I thank Commissioner Fischler for the proposals that he made in his presentation on the general policy in this area.
First of all, when FIFG subsidies are used to build increasingly large and increasingly powerful boats, the Member States, of course, encourage a greater and less selective fishing, which has a detrimental effect on small tradesmen, who are concerned with preserving efficient boats that are kept in good condition and which therefore provide good levels of safety without damaging the marine environment.
The Member States could implement similar measures to encourage access to markets in which small-scale fishermen, whose activities are less well structured than large-scale fishermen, have less influence in the area of management.
As regards the representation of fishermen in Commission advisory councils, we must encourage small businesses.
They could thus defend their interests more forcefully.
Lastly, it is always the large-scale fishermen who can go further, to Africa, for example to Senegal where species are fished to a greater degree, or to other countries whose fisheries resources are essential for the local economy.
These are some proposals, therefore, that we can make to encourage small-scale fishing.
Northern Ireland fishermen more than anyone want to maintain sustainable fisheries in the Irish Sea.
The chairman of the Committee on Fisheries has a proposal that would secure more money for investigating the effects of the measures already in place.
The golden rule for any fisheries policy is stock preservation and the fundamental priority must be the preservation of stocks and marine life, because, to use a culinary metaphor, just as you cannot make an omelette without eggs, you cannot go fishing if there are no fish.
As you see, this is an age-old problem.
In other words, the freedom to fish must be conditional on the marine resources available.
Protecting marine resources is not only about guaranteeing the future of fishing but also concerns a biological value, an essential value of humanity and of life on Earth.
In fact, we need to show solidarity and understanding towards fishermen, specifically towards those who, as has already been said, are now suffering the consequences of a terrible and criminal shipwreck.
Mr President, I would like to devote my speech to the cod crisis.
It is a particularly bad state of affairs and reference is often made to the situation in Newfoundland, where fishing has gone on to the point where the Grandbanks are empty, but we should also set in motion drastic measures to stop excessive fishing.
Needless to say, the situation is very worrying, but I should like to repeat that we need to produce far clearer information before we can take draconian measures of this kind.
We cannot simply discontinue cod fishing.
We all want to conserve resources - that is not the problem; we accept all fair decisions to conserve resources; the problem is how to distribute between fleets, resources that scientifically, reasonably, with common sense, applying the precautionary principle, are considered fair.
Against this backdrop, some fundamental criticism must be made of the Commission proposals.
Our first criticism is that ending aid for fleet modernisation is totally unacceptable.
Given that 40% of Portugal's fleet is more than 25 years old, this would definitively sideline the overwhelming majority of Portuguese fishermen and prevent them from undertaking any modernisation.
Our second criticism is that the ban on aid for the creation of joint enterprises for fishing outside Community waters will only serve to increase our imports from third countries; it would, therefore be sensible to continue to allow vessels decommissioned from the Community fleet to fish in the waters of third countries under these joint enterprises.
Lastly account must be taken of the efforts that some countries, in this case Portugal, have already made under the Multi-Annual Guidance Plans for fisheries, where the effort that has already been made to reduce the fleet should now be considered and deducted from their targets.
To conclude, Commissioner, I should also like to say that other issues have not been given due consideration.
Also, why is it that no specific measures have been envisaged for the outermost regions, whose aquatic ecosystems are highly sensitive?
I also hope that the opinion delivered by the European Parliament will take account of those aspects that have not been considered and that the Council is able to reach a reasonable agreement.
I would like to commend the work of the UK and Scottish Fisheries Ministers; the UK Fisheries Minister Mr Elliot Moreley, the Scottish Fisheries Minister Mr Ross Finny and the Secretary of State for Scotland, Mrs Helen Liddle.
Whatever solution is agreed, change is inevitable.
The next two weeks will be critical to finding a solution to this crisis.
Mr President, my speech also concerns the cod fishing crisis.
Researchers in the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea have found that cod stocks in the North Sea, the Irish Sea and the Skagerrak are threatened by total collapse.
The ICES verdict on the Baltic is possibly a little more difficult to interpret, but it seems as though they are looking to start out from the most optimistic point of view regarding, for example, illicit fishing.
If we do not do this, it might mean the complete destruction of the future of the fishing industry.
We even agree on providing incentives for scrapping and, therefore, encouraging some fishermen to leave the fisheries sector.
If you do not succeed in this, it will be evidence that more Community-based organisation means a European Union which is more removed from the citizens and less attentive to their concerns.
You have conceded a small amount of ground for vessels less than 12 metres long, which is positive.
According to the 'Accident Investigation' Bureau, there have been 30 shipwrecks and 22 people have died.
Above all, however, most of them were modernised some months or not long before, in other words destabilised and made heavier, because fishermen have no other choice.
I therefore believe and hope that, in December, you will also find an answer for vessels over 12 metres long as well, in other words, for small-scale fishing, which is dependent not only on the size of boats but on the skipper being on board too.
You want to find a solution without increasing capacity.
Small-scale fishing has no proper funding and so, without a boost from the state, nothing will change.
Mr President, I should first of all like to express my solidarity with the Galician people and with the MEPs who hail from that region.
Sound quota management in that very sector has meant that, relatively speaking, this sector is doing well, certainly taking into consideration the drastic cutbacks in additional catches.
There is a real need to set out a fisheries policy that creates a balance between resources and their use, that is based upon the principle of sustainability and that takes much more extensive account of environmental and ecological considerations than the previous policy did.
We need the multiannual management plans proposed by the Commissioner, based upon scientific advice and to be applied to all the stocks.
The collapse of cod stocks in the North Sea, Irish Sea and Skagerrak is, in reality, a judgment upon fisheries policy so far.
If the Member States had followed the scientific advice and warnings, including the Commission's proposal from June of last year for a rescue plan, this collapse would presumably not have happened.
We need to cut back on the combined fishing fleet, something which necessarily means using the subsidies for eliminating the fishing fleet's overcapacity and, if need be, for supporting those fishermen affected by the measures required.
I hope that a sustainable fisheries reform may be implemented before the New Year, and it might be useful if the Commissioner could confirm that the work is continuing in accordance with this timetable and if he could provide his assessments of the options.
This is the reality of the situation in Portugal: fifty thousand jobs in the fisheries sector, 90% of vessels are old and small and are engaged in traditional forms of fishing.
I would point out that there are other measures that are not irreversible and which will cause less upset in achieving a balance between fleet capacity and available fish resources.
Portugal has been extremely committed to fulfilling and even exceeding its targets for the multi-annual guidance plans, unlike other Member States, which have made no effort or have even increased their fleet capacity, with total impunity.
Portugal is becoming increasingly concerned to see the Commission ignoring this situation, rejecting inspections and continuing blindly to ask all Member States to make the same sacrifices.
It is therefore becoming unjustifiable at all levels to reprogramme funds already earmarked for the period until 2006 and which have been planned with the national and regional bodies and the economic and social operators.
As the rapporteur quite rightly said, this Commission proposal appears, more than anything, to be a leap in the dark.
We are also prepared to look, with the Spanish Government, at how we can put structural resources for fisheries to the best possible use here.
We really cannot completely ignore the polluter pays principle here but, as you know, there is a sort of solidarity over and above that, in the form of a fund of EUR 300 million, which the Commission has been demanding to see increased to EUR 1 billion for some time now - for several months in fact.
These are the latest data available and the evaluations were not carried out by just any scientists; they were carried out by scientists from all the Member States who worked as a group, were paid by the Member States and had to reach a common verdict.
I am more than happy to accept Amendments Nos 4, 14, 27 and 30, because the Commission too feels that fisheries management should include social and economic aspects.
However, I must reject Amendment No 2, because economic considerations cannot be used as an excuse for watering down the measures needed.
I must also reject Amendments Nos 24, 31 and 99, because our wording for the precautionary principle is in keeping with international maritime law and cannot therefore be watered down.
Amendments Nos 19 and 50 do not pose any substantive problems; however, the precautionary principle already takes account of environmental considerations per se and I therefore feel that these amendments are superfluous.
However, I welcome your support for multiannual management plans, Mr Jové Peres, and gladly accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 6, 29 and 32.
I cannot accept Amendments Nos 35 and 36 because it is up to the Council to set the framework for management plans.
However, I gladly accept Amendment No 22 on international guidelines for sustainable fisheries management.
I must reject Amendments Nos 67 and 68, although I agree that we urgently need better scientific data on third country stocks and we shall be sending Parliament a separate communication on this in the spring of 2003.
Now to access to waters and stocks.
I accept Amendment No 44, although we must comply with Community provisions governing data protection.
Now for your proposed amendments to the chapter on controls.
I cannot accept Amendments Nos 52 to 56 or 62.
However, I can accept Amendment No 3 on the possibility of adapting programme planning during the current Structural Fund period.
I can only accept the part of Amendments Nos 19 and 37 designed to promote the diversification of vessels out of fisheries.
Finally, I think that Amendment No 27 is superfluous.
Of course they are only estimates, but the majority of Member States see them as an upper limit, which is why I cannot agree with Amendments Nos 3 to 6 and 8.
As for Amendment No 10, the point here is that Member States must meet all the conditions of MAP 4, that is, overall fleet targets and individual targets, if they want to claim additional scrapping premiums.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0389/2002) by Mr Pérez Álvarez, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the conclusion of the Protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the Republic of Senegal on fishing off the coast of Senegal for the period from 1 July 2002 to 30 June 2006 [COM(2002) 497 - C5-0493/2002 - 2002/0238(CNS)] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first may I thank you, Mr Pérez Álvarez, for your report on our proposal on the conclusion of a new fisheries protocol with Senegal.
I am delighted that you support this proposal.
Senegal will receive a financial contribution of EUR 16 million and we shall be helping Senegal to build up sustainable fisheries.
The fishing zones for Community ships have been reduced and coastal zones have been reserved for the local artisanal fleet.
Finally, we have increased compulsory landings for the Senegalese fishing industry in the new protocol.
The agreement offers our fleet stability, because the new protocol will run for four years, and flexibility, thanks to the new system for calculating fishing opportunities.
The Senegalese authorities have confirmed that our fisheries will not endanger stocks because, even during the period from 1997 to 2001, Community catches only accounted for between 1.7% to 3.3% of total catches in Senegal.
By comparison, our vessels accounted for 25% of landings for the local industry in 1997.
I cannot accept Amendment No 5, because this is a protocol to a fisheries agreement.
I believe that the conclusion of a new protocol on fisheries relations between Senegal and the European Union - which is of particular importance following the failed agreement with Morocco - should be welcomed.
As you said, the impact of the protocol on fish populations in Senegalese waters is minimal, given that the fisheries activities of the European Union only represent between 1.7% and 3% of total catches in the area.
I do not want to say too much because a great deal of data already appears in the report.
I would like, Commissioner, to emphasise a reference to Amendment No 3, which has a clear social content - I am a member of the Committee on Social Affairs - and, overall, sets out similar working conditions, rights and freedoms for all seamen on board EU vessels, whether or not they are EU seamen.
In conclusion, this seems to be a good agreement: an achievable agreement is always the best one.
The agreement is clearly a meeting of wills, and often - almost always - both parties must make concessions in order to reach the agreement.
The Members of this Parliament are not in the habit of offering congratulations, but I believe this is a good agreement and we should congratulate the Commission.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
I am delighted that you support this proposal granting Community vessels access to Angolan waters until 2 August 2004.
The new protocol is in the mutual interest of the Community and Angola and contains a few new clauses, which I should like to comment on.
This will create an additional 160 to 180 jobs locally.
But I am more than willing to include this obligation in any new agreement, because this is something that needs to be negotiated.
The new protocol is the ninth since the Fisheries Agreement between the European Community and Angola entered into force in 1997; this new protocol applies to the period between August 2002 and August 2004, provides access for 33 tuna vessels and 22 shrimp-fishing vessels.
The tuna fishing quotas are shared out between France, Spain and Portugal - it should be noted that the previous protocol provided access for 43 European Tuna vessels, slightly more than the current number.
The annual financial compensation has risen from EUR 14 million to EUR 15.5 million, which is to be applauded.
What it means is that Angola has entered a new phase in its history, which has been plagued by civil wars, death and destruction.
In 1999, around 190 000 tonnes were brought in.
It also means, however, if the scientific data are not misleading, that Angola has considerable opportunities for fishing and that Angolan waters contain a wealth of fish.
The texts also state that fishing in Angola represents 3% of the gross national product and so any effort to support the Angolan fishing industry is to be welcomed.
We are seeing a great deal of illegal tuna fishing, especially in tropical waters, such as the Gulf of Guinea, in which the tuna are killed before they even have time to reproduce.
Perhaps this situation of illegal tuna fishing in all tropical waters will not be too different to this reduction in the tuna fishing quota in the Agreement with Angola.
This considerable allocation of appropriations to the fishing sector is important and shows that it is possible to conclude commercial fishing agreements that contain a development component.
I believe that we must not show any prejudice - in other words, fishing agreements must be made an integral part of the common fisheries policy: they can be of benefit to third countries, aiding their development and to the European Union, by improving the supply of its markets.
I should also like to mention, on behalf of my group, the PPE-DE, that we will be supporting this report, which we believe to be well-grounded.
Madam President, the complete, total and disgraceful failure of the common fisheries policy and the consequent collapse of fish stocks means that the EU must now cast its net wider and wider to satisfy voracious Spanish demands.
There are now 16 third country agreements in place.
Today we are discussing Angola and, according to the World Wildlife Fund, this deal will strip a vulnerable African coastal community of a precious asset.
Ten years ago, Namibia threw out the Spanish boats and took control over her 200-mile territorial waters. 14 000 people now work in an industry worth USD 350 million a year.
Namibia should be our model if we really want to help the third world.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
One: the goal of the Lisbon strategy is to transform the European Union into the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, an economy capable of bringing about permanent economic growth, more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
Two: in order to do this, we need an economic, employment, education, research policy and social policy strategy developed jointly by the Member States, the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament.
Three: Europe is moving from a market economy towards a social market economy and is in the process of taking the next step and making the eco-social market economy the order of the day for the twenty-first century.
Seven: we therefore welcome, by way of conclusion, the overall approach of the Commission communication on streamlining the annual economic and employment policy coordination cycles.
But this coordination depends on the Member States' doing their bit, on their passing fast, clear information to the Commission, on defining individual responsibilities within the overall concept - because a chain is only as strong as its weakest link - and on the euro zone becoming more aware of its responsibility within Europe.
We make a huge point of this in paragraph 18 of the report by calling for the role of the social partners in implementing the Lisbon and Gothenburg strategy, in other words the European social partnership, to be strengthened.
We have no time for legal wrangling between institutions; we need to foster this social dialogue jointly and involve organisations of social partners.
Which is precisely why we are demanding more rights in fora and in this process, by which we mean more involvement and more right of involvement on the part of the European Parliament.
We stress in point 8 of the report that anyone who wants to see this democratic involvement must be concerned that the new timetable for the guidelines package gives the European Parliament even less time than before to agree on its position.
We welcome the fact that this process has been streamlined.
If we ensure that life is breathed into this communication, then we shall be one step closer to the Lisbon strategy.
Madam President, economic prospects are not at their best at the moment and the European Union has realised that it needs to coordinate economic policy and employment policy more efficiently.
The Commission will approve a package of guidelines in keeping with the new programme for the first time in April 2003, covering the three years up to 2006.
Secondly, this medium-term focus will require greater discipline on the part of everyone involved: the Commission, the Council, the European Parliament and all other interested parties.
It is vital that the two procedures complement each other if we are to achieve the maximum possible coordination between economic policy and employment policy.
Now that the employment strategy has been up and running for a number of years, we have identified the basic practical problems and the gap which often arises between submitting national action plans on employment and implementing them.
I should like to stress in particular that this streamlining procedure should result in closer collaboration, not just between the various Councils - the Ecofin Council and the Council on Employment will need to find a clearer and more efficient way of working together - but also between the institutions of the European Union.
I think that Parliament - and the entire procedure, of course - will benefit from this proposed streamlining of procedures, especially from more transparent information, with the main elements of the application of financial policies and employment policies being provided in a coordinated manner.
May I remind you that, in the past, information on these two procedures often came in at different times, giving rise to a great deal of confusion.
Fourthly, streamlining means a better governance model for these procedures, which in turn means more efficient consultation with the European Parliament and greater involvement on the part of the social partners and civil society.
The big issue as far as evaluating employment policies is concerned is that neither the social partners nor the national parliaments have been properly involved.
Finally, I must say that this proposal respects the need for autonomous procedures, as required under the Treaty.
In short, the economic guidelines provide an overall framework for economic policy but the employment strategy has the necessary degree of autonomy.
We shall be presenting an initial communication in January 2003 and both these documents, the communication on the revision of the employment strategy and the draft joint report, which we submitted a month ago, will be the two basic political papers and will need to be debated so that we can get to the spring Council and then start applying the new procedure with the guidelines.
This must be crystal clear and must be expressed in the procedures we choose.
And a modern system is a system that offers security, security for job seekers, job security, security in the event of illness, old age or disability.
Simplification is more important than streamlining.
The European Parliament must achieve greater participation without necessarily demanding the right to make decisions.
It is about giving the European Parliament not only the right to be present but also time.
To conclude, I would like to say that it is important that the candidate countries take part in this work soon and that the regional and local authorities also be given an active role to play.
Madam President, the Commission communication actually takes up a proposal which Parliament has debated time and again in this Chamber since the second stage of monetary union, namely the need to try and coordinate and interlink the various political areas much more closely.
The Delors Commission concluded at one point that uncoordinated policies were costing us growth, which automatically means they are costing us jobs in the European Union.
There is no genuine European economic policy due to differences between the Member States.
I agree with the principle of streamlining.
Thirdly, the proposed procedures do not yet have any democratic value.
An annual interactive discussion is therefore necessary between national communities and the Community institutions at Parliament's initiative.
Only then will the Commission draft its proposals, only then will the decision be referred back to the Council, but Parliament could then have a power of ratification.
To sum up, without shared political will and a common democratic procedure, the coordination of national policies will fail.
The goal for the spring summit next year must be to create balance in the measures between all three parts of the Lisbon agenda, above all by developing the environmental dimension and continuing to strengthen and make concrete the concept of sustainable development within all three dimensions of the agenda.
The Commission must do this in a much more focused way.
All the work on sustainable development in this agenda has completely the wrong focus and is going far too slowly on the part of the Commission.
We need an environmental process and, especially, we also need a social process as an important part of the total process which was developed from the Lisbon Summit.
If we have this type of conflict to fight against, I believe that this is almost the worst thing that can happen for economic development in Europe.
At the same time, there is vertical coordination between levels.
The biggest problem of all which we face, and which even the Commissioner, for example, knows that I always return to, is that it makes no difference how much we coordinate at European level if we do not achieve better co-ordination between European level and national level and as long as the national labour markets are not sufficiently open.
My answer is always that responsibility must be given to the national parliaments.
Madam President, I would like to thank our rapporteur Mr Karas.
In the report, Parliament says that we have two items which are important.
If you look at paragraph (e) in the Karas report - I will read an extract from the paragraph: 'Whereas a better streamlined review of implementation in the form of a new implementation package requires information on the implementation of policies agreed on Europe leading to an evaluation of implementation in the relevant policy areas'.
This is a text from the report and it shows that, for Parliament, implementation of present coordination mechanisms is really important.
The other worry of Parliament concerns the role of Parliament and you can see from all of the reports that our role as a parliament, as a representative of the citizens, is very worrying for us.
Unfortunately, I was in the minority in this working group, because I think that the main aim of the open method of coordination is to be flexible, and that it should not be in the Treaty.
In practice, this will allow us to discharge our responsibility towards future generations and the countries whose development is lagging behind.
I would like to focus briefly on the instruments necessary for the practical implementation of this strategy.
The success of such a policy depends on the genuine participation of all the institutional levels and all the social players.
The preliminary draft Constitutional Treaty presented by the Chairman of the Convention does not contain any reference to the concept of sustainable development.
Madam President, the Lisbon strategy is due for re-evaluation at the special summit next spring.
We have discussed the possibility of a new edition of the Stability Pact in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
First, we need better coordination of economic policy, employment policy and social integration.
The annual guidelines are the main tool for coordinating employment policy.
Thirdly, on the future EU Member States: we need to integrate candidate countries at the very earliest opportunity if we want to achieve our ambitious aim of transforming the European Union into the most competitive, dynamic, knowledge-based economy in the world within eight years.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Madam President, we welcome the important step being taken today in the field of health and safety at work.
The proposal on risks to workers from physical agents was submitted eight years ago and the first part, on noise, was approved this year.
On behalf of the Commission, I should therefore like to congratulate the European Parliament, especially the members of the conciliation committee, on implementing what is, technically and politically, a particularly tricky issue.
Today's final draft of the directive contains three important achievements.
First, it provides greater protection for workers in all sectors of the economy, including sea and air transport, which were not covered under current legislation.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to call on the co-legislators to keep up their efforts to complete this legal framework on physical agents, which will give us an integrated framework for protecting workers and which, it must be said, has been lying on the negotiating table for far too long.
Madam President, I would thank the Commissioner for having eventually dealt with the other physical agents, for in that way I do not have to say that there are still elements we have missing.
There are, however, a number of other provisions that are to be avoided.
Irrespective of whether it sounds pleasant or unpleasant, noise can cause very serious damage to hearing.
It is, in point of fact, people who have lived with pleasant noise or who have been affected by very pleasant noise, namely music.
Finally, I just want to say how pleased I am that we have achieved such a broad compromise and such considerable support here in the Chamber.
I now hope that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will support this compromise and so confirm what its MEPs normally say in the committee, namely that, when there is scientific data and clear evidence that an issue constitutes a problem for workers, we must also legislate to solve that problem.
I think that this report lays another important stone in the edifice of health protection for European workers, even if, unfortunately, it will still be far too long before we have common European protection standards.
In this particular instance, the first proposal dates back to 1993.
This sets out employers' general duty of care without any room for misunderstanding.
This is a welcome move for reasons of legal truth and legal clarity because it makes no sense to have to keep turning a blind eye to the fact that the directive applies to orchestra members in theory but is never applied in practice for reasons of comfort or on aesthetic grounds.
I say that with one eye very firmly on the candidate countries because we must set a very clear example here too.
For the music and entertainment sector, I think we have established a very good approach.
The approach has been very much welcomed by the Musicians Union of Great Britain who acted to coordinate the work of musicians' unions across the European Union.
But the amendment granting the leisure and entertainment business a five-year delay for implementation while the Commission looked at the best way to regulate this industry, taking into account the special problems faced by the pub and club industry in particular, was unfortunately lost that in conciliation, although, with a code of conduct, it is better than was first proposed.
Regarding this one, this conciliated text is in my view a bad compromise on a bad directive.
Coming two weeks after Parliament approved the atypical workers directive, where extra costs and red tape could mean the loss of 160 000 temporary worker jobs in the UK alone, this latest directive shows that the EU continues to operate in a time warp when it comes to employment and social legislation.
Finally, I would like to say that during the progress of the legislation through the European Parliament there have been three different ministers back in the UK, which may explain why the UK Government has made such a limp response to it.
We will stand up for common sense and vote against it.
Mr President, as the final member speaking on this issue, I would like to repeat and underline that the directive will, over time, render occupational noise-induced hearing loss and associated conditions diseases of the past.
That is an achievement by the rapporteur, compounded by the fact that there were a number of national positions which were very difficult at the outset of this report, as has been said by other members.
We have all in the United Kingdom heard much said on this.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
I hope that the points on which we have focussed in this report will guide their work because there are many lessons to be learnt.
For example, the Commission has already published two sets of statistics on the number and use of animals in experiments.
Finally, many complaints from NGOs and other bodies and organisations relate to breaches of Article 5 on the general care and accommodation of animals.
There are four amendments to the report.
I believe there is general agreement in Parliament and in the Commission that Directive 86/609 is neither suitable nor effective today and that we need new legislation.
In March 2003, we will convene a meeting of a technical expert working group.
The report further highlights several cases of incorrect transposition of the Directive into Member States' national legislation and cases of incorrect practical application.
We have been actively pursuing these cases and therefore four out of the nine cases presented in the report have already been successfully closed.
Parliament adopted the proposal in July 2002 without amendments.
However, a modification in the wording has recently become necessary and Council is likely to adopt a common position.
Madam President, the European Parliament has, on a number of occasions, expressed strong feeling about this matter and declared itself to be opposed to the use of laboratory animals when experiments are repeats of experiments which have already been carried out in other technologically advanced countries, when alternative, internationally approved methods exist and when the products in question are not strictly necessary, as in the case of cosmetics.
We must remember, however, that the people who devote their lives to scientific research are skilled professionals, as are the Commission's scientific consultants, who are therefore fully aware of this responsibility and perform experiments with the noble aim of eliminating diseases which are still incurable and fatal.
If Amendment No 1 is not adopted, I shall regrettably be forced - as I have already told the rapporteur - to abstain in the final vote.
I think we were right to highlight the Member States's poor implementation of the 1986 directive.
I think it important that we obtain a combined database of this kind so that we avoid repeating experiments that have already been carried out.
May I say that I am able to support Amendment No 3 and that there will be a free vote on Amendment No 4 in the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
The almost complete lack of attention on the part of many of the Member States to the need for proper implementation of Directive 86/609 on animals used for experimental purposes, the appalling shortcomings of the directive itself and the delay in realising the need for it to be updated are confirmation of at least two things: firstly, that animal welfare is a taboo subject in this wealthy, opulent Europe, and secondly, that international economic lobbies are still succeeding in preventing free, political debate on certain subjects.
Therefore, the European Commission must speed up its reform process in this area and step up its control and monitoring of non-compliant States, and Parliament, without allowing there to be tension between its head and its heart, must summon up the courage, with the resolution before us today, to take up arms and wage ideological war against the egoism and evil ways of mankind and, without jeopardising scientific research, confirm our unquestionable duty to respect defenceless animals.
I am delighted with this report.
If we feel we cannot do without them, then we must breed them.
They now live, much beloved by the public, as Liesl and Hiasl in an animal rescue centre in Vienna.
Mr President, it is always a pleasure to hear a committed rapporteur and a committed Commissioner speaking on their common concern in this matter.
Firstly, it is extraordinary that a Directive promulgated in 1986 has still not been properly implemented in some Member States.
I also feel that we need to look very carefully in this Directive at exactly how the process of experimentation will go in the future.
Few countries in the European Union have escaped criticism, and that may well be because they were not yet part of the European Union at the time in question and have therefore not been assessed.
I believe that there must be an undertaking in this regard.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place later today at 11 a.m.
