We should call on the Afghan authorities to take a look at the law, to revise it and make sure that it is entirely in line with the international commitments of that country, as well as its constitution.
I agree entirely with what Ana Maria Gomes has just said.
It is ultimately the future of a society that is being decided through this draft law, and Afghan society has already expressed its desire not to remain excluded from these debates.
Emma Bonino, the leader of my political party, was arrested by the Taliban for her mere presence, as a European Commissioner, and was held in detention for some hours precisely because of her presence in defence of women's rights.
In November 2002, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament sent a delegation under my leadership to Afghanistan in order to make sure that women were not being excluded in the reconstruction of the country.
Warnings from women's rights organisations, such as medica mondiale, that violence must be stopped seemed to go totally unheeded, and at the beginning of April the radical Islamic Taliban in Kandahar murdered the German-Afghan women's rights campaigner Sitara Achikzai.
We should strive to resolve this problem, in spite of cultural differences.
The European Union, as a community, must express support for all those who are fighting for women's rights in Afghanistan, so that we do not allow the destruction of all that has up to now been achieved in this area. - (SK) I would like to express my sincere thanks to President Hans-Gert Pöttering for accepting my request and including this point among the urgent resolutions of this session.
We cannot on the one hand allow President Hamid Karzai to speak in the European Parliament and on the other hand accept that laws violating basic human rights are passed in his country. (RO) It concerns all of us, of course, that a law is about to come into force in Afghanistan which allows discriminatory and degrading treatment towards women in the family and society.
It is likely that the international reaction and the reaction of Afghan civil society contributed to the Afghan Government's decision to refer the legislation back to the minister of justice for a general review, with the latter being focused in particular on Afghanistan's obligations in terms of international law.
