Devastating floods hit Central Europe in 2000 and 2002, the UK in 2007, and Romania and EU neighbours last year.
In 2003 and 2007 forest fires ravaged Portugal and Greece.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Madam President, I am speaking also on behalf of my colleague, Alain Lamassoure.
On 24 and 25 January this year, storm Klaus, which hit southern Europe, killed 11 people in France, 14 in Spain and three in Italy.
While I am keen to express my solidarity with the families of the victims and all those affected, and my support for local councillors, I would like to take advantage of this forum to call on the European Community since, it has to be said, this kind of situation requires a European response and, first and foremost, European solidarity.
Admittedly, in France a state of natural disaster has been declared, which will facilitate aid to disaster victims, but this does nothing to detract from the need to take coordinated European action to supplement the Member States' efforts to protect people, the environment and property in disaster-stricken towns and regions.
I would like to hear your opinion on this subject, Mrs Vassiliou, as well as your response to Parliament's request in its resolution of 27 April 2006, seeking the creation of a European observatory on natural disasters to ensure a more effective European response when these unfortunate events occur.
Madam President, Mrs Vassiliou, on 18 November last year, I said the following in this very place: 'we do not know what the next disaster will be or on what scale it will be, but we are sure of one thing, and that is that there will soon be another disaster again.
However, as long as we, here in Parliament, and you, Mrs Vassiliou, members of the Commission, and also those absent this evening from the desperately empty Council benches, as long as we fail to realise that we must make real budgetary resources available to combat disasters, and not content ourselves with hollow words, as long as we fail to implement European solidarity through the actual establishment of a rapid-reaction, continental-scale civil intervention force, we shall continue here, tragedy after tragedy, to simply perform, once more, our chorus of lament.
The equivalent of six years' harvest of timber is lying on the ground, that is, 50 million cubic metres of windfall or windbreak over 300 000 hectares.
There needs to be payment of EUR 5-10 per cubic metre of timber removed, that is, in the region of EUR 500 million, namely the amount of aid France has given to the press.
One of the most tragic events was the death of four children, aged between nine and 12, in Sant Boi de Llobregat in Catalonia, when the wind destroyed a sports hall in which they were playing baseball.
It still holds the wind speed record: over 250 km/h.
The second, which was on an unprecedented scale, was the storm of 27 December 1999.
The third storm was on 24 January 2009.
It was already in trouble in 2002 after another disaster which was not at all natural, the sinking of the Prestige, and at present the oyster-farmers of the Arcachon Basin are losing all hope of being able to get back on their feet.
I am among those who will strive to see that it does this, because I believe it is very important, a few months from the elections, that our citizens know that European solidarity does exist and that Europe is not just dominated by the market. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, on 23 January I was in Galicia when winds of almost 200 km per hour struck my region: over 40 000 hectares of forest were devastated, Commissioner.
As we know and as has been mentioned here, on 26 January the two worst affected Member States, France and Spain, requested European aid for the damage caused by the storm.
As we have been talking mostly about effects and relief funds, I would like to ask the Commission about specific projects which are actually able to implement prevention mechanisms for incidents like this so that, at least in the future, we will not have any more loss of human life. - Madam President, can I just add my sympathy, as others have this evening, to the families who are deeply and sadly affected by this storm, and offer my support for calls for greater flexibility in the Solidarity Fund.
Perhaps we need to look at funding under rural development or the common agricultural policy and establish a hardship fund to look after cases like this which are there and which need assistance. - Madam President, the Commissioner mentioned several disasters in her opening speech, and among them the heatwave in France several years ago which claimed the lives of between 12 000 and 14 000 people.
I would ask the Commission to investigate that heatwave, investigate the level of deaths and realise that France did nothing about it, and yet when the autumn came and all those people had been buried, there were 14 000 fewer people on their social services register.
The storm claimed 18 victims in Spain, France and Germany and the number of victims would have been even higher if the early warning system had not been operating.
Disasters are steadily increasing in number as a result of climate change in Europe, forcing us to adopt rules to ensure not only the rapid and flexible provision of financial assistance in the immediate aftermath of a disaster but also the implementation of preventative measures against various natural disasters.
