I voted in favour of the appointment of Mrs Meglena Kuneva, the Bulgarian Commissioner designate.
However, while I have no problem with the individual herself or with the appointment of a Bulgarian Commissioner, I have serious doubts about there being enough jobs for 27 commissioners.
I simply do not believe that there are enough serious jobs for 27 Commissioners and look forward to a Treaty reform along the lines of the draft Constitution that significantly reduces the number of Commissioners.
I am pleased to support Mr Orban's appointment today.
It is for that reason that I voted against the Thyssen report.
The aim of the report is to initiate an action programme in the field of consumer protection for the years 2007 to 2013.
in writing. - (FR) The Community action programme in the field of consumer protection for 2007-2013 is intended to complement, support and monitor the policies of the Member States.
I am delighted that this programme has been divided into two parts, thereby distinguishing between health and consumer protection.
While I regret that the Commission has reduced the financial envelope from EUR 233.46 million - at first reading - to EUR 156.8 million and that the number of actions in the field of consumer protection has been reviewed and reduced from 20 to 11, I have voted in favour of Mrs Thyssen's report, so that consumers' organisations can benefit from this programme in the interests of our fellow European citizens.
Parliament has stuck steadfastly to its view that Member State governments must do far more to prevent this type of pollution, such as arsenic, biocides and cyanide.
Parliament's approach to 'toughen up' the legislation in this field is very much welcomed.
A strict new Groundwater Directive is therefore of vital importance.
Following the amendments introduced by Parliament, however, I support the final text of the regulation, which provides for time-limited legislation (2013) and a mid-term review (2009), the creation of a specific instrument for development policy - the Development Cooperation Instrument (DCI) - as distinct from the policy of cooperation with industrialised countries, a single legal basis and the drafting of more detailed financial provisions.
Therefore I called for support for Amendments 1, 2 and 3.
I could not vote in favour of this report without them.
Establishing a 'certified financial body' in combination with the replacement of Article 5 of Regulation 2193/92, which refers to customs representatives, will result in the loss of jobs for all customs brokers in Greece and several EU Member States, who will be replaced with monopoly enterprises at the expense of the security of customs procedures.
in writing. - (EL) It is the farmer's and consumer's right and obligation to look after their health and safety and know the composition of each product, including animal feed.
The radicals in this Parliament have fought for years for the 'democratic clauses' contained in many agreements between the EU and authoritarian countries such as Laos, Vietnam and Uzbekistan to be respected.
We are aware that this report can be misused for measures against Venezuela or other states where the people have opted for radical steps towards human equality, and maybe even as justification for military interventions on allegedly humanitarian grounds.
The expansion of democracy and the protection of human rights is intrinsically a good thing that brings benefits to the people of countries in which there is neither democracy nor respect for human rights, as well as to the people of neighbouring countries (which is why promoting these values in our neighbourhood is so important) and of the world as a whole.
in writing. - (EL) The 'financial Instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide' is a blatant admission that in the name of 'democracy and human rights' we are establishing the EU's right to imperialistic interventions at the expense of nations around the world.
I naturally voted in favour of my report on the financing instrument for cooperation with the industrialised countries and territories.
As I said in the debate, this might in financial terms be the least significant of the new external instruments, but it will still involve a budget of around EUR 22 million a year and cover our external actions with 17 important countries.
I believe the amendments that Parliament has approved will make the instrument more appropriate and effective in promoting the interests and values of the EU in these 17 heterogeneous countries.
