Common rules for the allocation of slots at Community airports (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Costa, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EEC) No 95/93 on common rules for the allocation of slots at Community airports - C6-0097/2009 -.
I think Vice-President Tajani will agree that the way in which we have tried to respond to an objective need and difficulty of the airlines at the moment - allowing them to retain their time slots even if they do not use them during the summer season this year - is a necessary, but very rough measure, a measure that needs refining.
It needs to be refined because we have seen, in the brief time that discussion has been allowed on this, that there are different interests, all of which are absolutely legitimate, among the airlines, that there are companies waiting to replace others, where the first are unable to meet their commitments, that there are now distinct interests among airlines and airports, something that did not happen only a short time ago, and above all that there are the interests of passengers, most importantly those served by airports and airlines in the outermost regions, who would be at greater risk should the choice of retaining or abolishing slots depend solely on their profitability for the companies concerned.
I, too, in the 20 seconds I have left, Mr President, will take advantage of this last-day-of-school atmosphere to thank my classmates and those with whom I have had occasion to work over the last ten years, since I now have the great pleasure of ending my final day in Strasbourg with my last but by no means least contribution.
Thank you, Mr Costa, and congratulations on your fine work.
Mr President, honourable Members, once again, as a former Member of this House, I would like to thank the Committee on Transport and Tourism and its chairman for their productive work when I was an MEP and for the cooperation they have shown me since I had the honour to be appointed, and endorsed by Parliament, as European Commissioner for Transport.
A series of events - the economic crisis, the financial crisis, the new type A flu virus - is further aggravating the situation in the air transport industry, and this situation demonstrates just how urgent and indispensable support measures are, not only for the airlines, but also their employees.
It is a global response to a global crisis, a response that clearly does not affect one or two Member States but affects the air transport system of the entire European Union and, in the most serious of circumstances - the attacks of 11 September and the SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) crisis - similar measures were taken.
Suspending the 'use it or lose it' rule for the summer season will benefit all companies, European or otherwise, without any discrimination, as the IATA and many non-European companies have pointed out, moreover.
I am sure that this measure, which will be for a limited period and is an exception - the suspension will in fact be in force from 29 March to 26 October this year to then allow slots to be retained for the summer season of the following year - will give some breathing space to all companies, allowing them to address the drop in demand.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism is an important committee, and I thank you for your excellent cooperation.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank our chair, Paolo Costa, not only for producing this report but also for his work as chair of the committee over the past parliamentary period.
My group will support the compromise proposed by our rapporteur and endorsed by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, but I stress that this suspension, as my colleague Georg Jarzembowski often says of the 'use it or lose it' clause, is a one-off for one period and does not represent a green light for further suspensions.
If the Commission feels that further suspensions are needed, then they must be made part of a revised regulation, fully involving this Parliament and fully respecting the rights of this Parliament.
Suspension of 'use it or lose it' will not affect London Heathrow, Frankfurt, Paris Charles de Gaulle or Amsterdam Schiphol, but it will affect regional airports serving those hubs, because it is those routes the airlines will suspend.
Because the economic situation is not good and because we recognise the nonsense of flying empty aircraft, we will support our rapporteur on this occasion, but I hope our caveats to this have been duly noted for future reference, not only in this Chamber, but by the wider aviation industry as a whole.
Finally, as the Socialist coordinator, can I thank all my team, but also my fellow coordinators from other groups for the sterling work and the cooperation that we have shared with each other during the last five years.
I also extend those thanks to Commissioner Tajani and his team in the time that he has been in the Transport Commissioner's seat.
I say this because of departures from Linate airport and Malpensa airport that are monopolised by Alitalia-Air France.
Take Linate, which is in dire straits with 160 000 positions in difficulty.
Here, Linate has 126 000 on its waiting lists, while Alitalia-Air France does not want to make these journeys.
It has always been a pleasure to work with my colleagues in the Committee on Transport and Tourism and I would like to thank all my fellow Members for that and Chairman Costa, in particular, for his report, which we are currently discussing, and also for his readiness to work on a sensible compromise on airport slots.
Thank you, Mr Blokland.
I also wish you good fortune and happiness in your future endeavours outside of Parliament. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to me it seems entirely appropriate that the exemption from current Community law should allow airlines to retain their slots.
So, I take this opportunity - this will be my last speech this session and it is unlikely that I will be back here for the next parliamentary term - to thank everyone, those Members who without prejudice have allowed me to work with them and have thus undoubtedly given me an incomparable experience, both personally and politically.
Thank you, Mr Romagnoli, and I wish you every success in your future work. (DE) Mr President, everything of importance that needs to be said on this important text for air transport and for the people who depend on air transport, either as employees or passengers, has already been said.
Mr Tajani, I would like to request a 'sweet'.
I sincerely thank all of you with whom I have had the privilege of working in the last few years.
Thank you, Mr Rack.
I should also like to say to Mr Tajani that I congratulate him on having accepted such a difficult mandate and portfolio as transport during this term of office, and that, because patience and length of time are what make a person competent here, he deserves to have this portfolio reassigned to him under the Commission's next mandate.
Debating the suspension of the 80/20 rule is very important, but it can only be a short-term measure and it must not be allowed to become part of the aviation policy in the longer term.
Speaking as a pilot myself: can the Commission please explain why the pilots' associations were not consulted in this matter, and could it also confirm that the concerns of pilots and other people working in this industry will be fully taken into account? (PT) Mr President, Mr Tajani, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission has adopted, as a matter of urgency, a proposal to amend Regulation (EEC) No 95/93 on the allocation of airport slots.
This is not intended as a principle ad eternum nor as a right of ownership - as the committee chairman, Mr Costa, has just said - but as a temporary measure.
I could not therefore let this opportunity pass without expressing my gratitude for the support and cooperation that I have always received from my fellow Members in my modest contribution to the construction of a European project and a response to the citizens.
Thank you, Mr Fernandes.
Parliament has called on the European Commission to produce a coherent master plan for increasing airport capacity.
For this reason, a global solution needs to be found for the slots issue with the support of IATA, Eurocontrol and all the other agencies concerned in this area.
This is why I believe that the recommendation made today to the Commission by Parliament to re-examine in the near future the impact of the crisis on air traffic and to review in this context Directive 95/93 is the most suitable method which we can propose at this time of uncertainty.
The losers in this situation would primarily be passengers, something which must not happen. (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have already heard here, air transport is affected by various critical situations, including SARS and Mexican flu.
As this is the last time I shall take the floor before this House, I thank you all for your cooperation and wish you every success in the future.
I also wish you happiness for the future, Mrs Škottová. (CS) I would like to say that the current situation is marked, above all, by the gap between steadily improving technological capabilities and security measures which are making life difficult for airport passengers and staff alike.
I would like the European Union to avoid such a situation, and I would like us to be at the forefront of progress where the transport sector is concerned.
Mr President, I would like to thank you and all those Members who took part in this debate regarding a temporary measure - and I would emphasise that temporary nature - in the field of air transport.
Indeed, data provided by the European Airport Association tells us that 80% of European airports have seen a reduction in traffic, in January, between 8% and 10% as regards passengers, and between 25% and 30% as regards freight.
As regards the concerns expressed by other Members over certain airports that could run into problems following this measure - I refer in particular to a European airport that forms part of one of the EU's priority projects, the Malpensa airport - I can offer some information concerning airlines other than Alitalia-Air France.
Let me read you some statistics: at Malpensa airport, a German airline, Lufthansa, had 8 741 slots in 2008 and on 24 March 2009 had 19 520, an increase in capacity of more than 100%.
Also at Malpensa, a low-cost airline, easyJet, had 15 534 slots in 2008 and on 24 March 2009 had 22 936, a significant rise representing a 47% increase in capacity.
I can say then with absolute certainty that this measure will not cause any harm - and I say this as European Commissioner for Transport - to an airport and European hub like Malpensa, which is included in the Union's priority projects.
The commitment I am making is to continue to work with Members of this House and with its Committee on Transport and Tourism to ensure that the democratic institution representing European citizens can play an increasingly influential role.
I know the stress I have caused you as President by running through items very quickly. (Applause) I know that you secretly hope that my record of 900 amendments voted on in one hour will never be beaten!
