Without doubt, since combat operations ended, the situation in Iraq has been difficult and, unfortunately, is deteriorating by the day.
At the same time, as certain security problems are caused by the presence there of foreign military forces, I consider that replacing the military forces with a UN peace force would be an important step.
This is one of the basic proposals in my report.
Of course, it is something which cannot be achieved in 48 hours; of course, it is a decision which requires debate; of course, it is a decision which must be based on a UN Security Council resolution.
The epicentre of the overall reconstruction process is, without doubt, a procedure which has just started, by which I mean the drafting of the new constitution.
It is clear – and it must be clear to all of us – that the future of Iraq is primarily in the hands of the Iraqi people, and that is how it should be.
I begin by thanking the Committee on Foreign Affairs, particularly its chairman, Mr Dimitrakopoulos, for its report and for the presentation this morning.
Since the end of military action, the European Union has recognised its strong and common interest in supporting the new Iraq that is now emerging.
We are determined to see the success of a peaceful, stable and democratic Iraq, which responds to the needs of all its citizens.
Just over a year ago, the European Council endorsed the Commission's communication setting out medium-term objectives for the development of the EU's relationship with Iraq.
Last November, the Council presented a package of European Union assistance to Iraq's then Prime Minister, Dr Allawi.
Experts from the Commission worked with the United Nations and the Independent Electoral Commission of Iraq, and helped to make a success of Iraq's first democratic elections on 30 January this year.
The General Affairs and External Relations Council in February agreed to build on this package of assistance with further support for Iraq's political process, including the drafting of a new constitution.
That mission began training Iraqi police, judiciary and penitentiary officials yesterday and is making a valuable contribution to the Iraqi Government's efforts to increase its authority and to entrench the rule of law.
Overall, the European Union is today delivering an impressive and comprehensive programme of assistance to the Government and people of Iraq as they seek to build a peaceful and democratic future.
Last month, along with Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, the High Representative, Javier Solana, and the President of the General Affairs Council, Jean Asselborn, I visited Baghdad.
There the Commissioner reiterated the Commission's intention to open an office in Baghdad as soon as possible, so as to strengthen the EU's dialogue and technical assistance.
At the International Conference on Iraq in Brussels a fortnight ago, hosted jointly by the United States and the European Union, representatives from 87 countries and international organisations gave a similar and strong message of support to the new Iraq.
Mr&#160;Dimitrakopoulos rightly said that the security situation was the key to everything else and the security situation is serious.
Let me say, as one of what were the two formal occupying powers in Iraq, the United States and the United Kingdom, and someone with his own personal responsibility for the war, we share this aspiration.
We are well aware that under Security Council Resolution 1546 the mandate for the foreign forces in Iraq will come to an end in December this year, unless it is renewed in some way, and that in any event, as 1546 makes clear, we the coalition forces are only there at the invitation of the Iraqi Government.
On the issue of whether there could be a United Nations 'blue-hatted' force, I have no difficulty with that in principle.
The only issue is encouraging other countries to come forward.
However, on the overall objective of coalition forces being reduced and then leaving and the Iraqis taking full control for themselves, we are absolutely in agreement.
Significant events have taken place, one of which was the troika visit to Iraq on 9 June, because we, the 25, showed that we are all united now in reconstructing and assisting Iraq.
I also think it was very important that we had the international conference in Brussels.
The deplorable abduction of the Egyptian diplomat and other recent kidnappings have driven home to all of us the conditions under which people are living.
We know it is not an easy undertaking, but I think it is important that politically we also show our flag and help the Iraqi people.
The situation in that country is still very difficult and I agree with Mr Dimitrakopoulos that ensuring military and civilian security must be the main priority of the new Iraqi administration.
This must represent the interests of all Iraqis and was a central topic of our Iraq Conference in Brussels.
We in Europe know from our recent experience the myriad difficulties a constitution can pose and, by the way, we also discussed that very frankly with the Iraqis.
We already provided technical expertise in the last elections, especially for the United Nations, and we have said that we will assist the United Nations experts again this time, especially with funding, but also by providing some of our own experts.
Of course that always depends on whether the Iraqis want us to help.
We rely very much on the United Nations to advise the Iraqis on compliance with the principles of international law.
Since 2003 we in the Commission have been working on health, education, basic needs, sanitation and water, and also on creating jobs, because what is most important is that people themselves are able to feed their families.
These countries need the assistance and cooperation of their neighbours.
The neighbours have made this commitment in principle, but now we have to see whether it can be put into practice.
That is what we have to do on moral and also political grounds. &#160;&#160; I can inform the Council and the Commission that Parliament offers courses in modern Greek, if needed, in order to help with the pronunciation of Mr Dimitrakopoulos’s name. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I find myself in the slightly ridiculous position of being the only person to have abstained from the opinion issued by the Committee on Development.
Yesterday, representatives of Iraqi civil society were received; they are present in the Chamber today and I welcome them with great respect.
These are people who live in insecurity every day, but who do not give up on their commitment to fight for an Iraq free of the military occupation, terrorism and armed resistance.
As our opinion states, it is necessary for the reconstruction process to provide for their involvement and financial support for their projects.
Our opinion also strongly emphasises the promotion of development measures in favour of women, who must acquire and not lose rights, and of children traumatised by the dictatorship, the embargo and the war, as well as measures designed to help the country to clear the mines and cluster-bombs and to place control and reconstruction projects back in the hands of the Iraqi authorities.
Our opinion also calls for the involvement of the United Nations.
Above all, it calls for respect for human rights, which have been tragically and shamefully violated, and a continued commitment by the European Union through its presence in Iraq, as the Council and the Commission have also called for here.
Firstly, my committee welcomes the strategy proposed by the Commission for involvement in Iraq, calling on all parties to help transform the country into a diversified market economy.
Fourthly, Iraq possesses many natural resources, particularly its reserves of oil.
It has to be said, though, that sustainable reconstruction is inconceivable if the proceeds are not reinvested in Iraq.
Fifthly, as regards international financial aid or the cancellation of debt, there must be close cooperation between the partners involved.
There also – and this is my sixth point – needs to be close cooperation between Iraq and its neighbours, on which the development of a favourable investment climate across the region as a whole depends.
I will conclude by thanking the members of the lead committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for adopting our opinion with scarcely any reservations.
Mr President, I would like firstly to congratulate Mr Dimitrakopoulos on the excellent work he has done on Iraq, a tough, complex and difficult issue, as we can see from the events that have taken place recently: the murder of more than 40 people this weekend, the kidnap of the head of the Egyptian diplomatic mission in the street in broad daylight, the standstill in oil production and the spectacular increase in violence over the last year.
If we do not have a clear view of our ambitions and our projects for that country, we will not be able to build the future and we will not be able to understand the past.
It is therefore very important, Mr President, for the European Union to clearly promote peace, understanding, concord and reconciliation in that country, as Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner has said and as the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers of the European Union has also told us.
But I believe, Mr President, that we will have to try, amongst all of us, to turn the discords of the past into the harmonies of the present, as suggested by the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Dimitrakopoulos. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have been told that the page must be turned.
I shall not speak of this chaotic, free Iraq which often seems like hell.
Above all, I shall not say that this war has been a tragic mistake from beginning to end.
Do not ask me to shut my eyes to the appalling management of the conflict when even Bush himself is coming under attack for this within his own party.
Do not ask me to hide the fact that European Union money is lying unspent in Mr&#160;Wolfowitz’s World Bank Trust Fund, despite the call made by the European Parliament, in its resolution of September 2003, for all of its donations to be managed by the United Nations.
On behalf of my group, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Dimitrakopoulos, for his work on the report and for trying to be so constructive and forward-looking.
The Iraqi people are courageous and patient.
They showed this during the election, and they show it every day.
We naturally support the work on creating democratic institutions, strong protection for women and minorities and support for a society founded on the rule of law.
I think the rapporteur is right, and I would like to urge Mr Straw to show more commitment in this area, not only telling this House that he is in agreement, but also, among other things, by adopting a tougher line in the Security Council.
Another strong point is the need for national reconciliation and for no crime to go unpunished.
I appreciate the fact that, in his report, the rapporteur refers to a number of positive developments in Iraq, including the elections in January 2005.
Secondly, I simply have to return to the issue of the ambiguity surrounding the start of the war, particularly in the first recitals.
Like the rapporteur, I believe that both the European Union and this House will need to focus on the future and future cooperation between the European Union and Iraq, but not even in this House can there be any effective and concerted action without an objective assessment of the past.
That is why my group has tabled a number of amendments that underline this, addressing, among other things, the lack of legitimisation by the UN.
If we do not learn from past mistakes, we risk repeating them, and that is something we should avoid at all costs. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the report that has been submitted to us on the European Union’s engagement in Iraq states, as early as its first paragraph, and I quote, that we ‘need to move on from past events and to look towards the future’.
Let us remember once again that this war was started against the wishes of the international community and on the basis of a twofold lie: that there were weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and that Al-Qaeda had been in the country before 2003.
It would be too easy, Mr Straw, to welcome the new spirit only, in so doing, to pay off such a heavy liability.
Now is the time to send this entire battered region some strong political signals, such as a decision to proscribe all recourse to war in future as a way of resolving the world’s problems, or the implementation of the Quartet’s commitments, that have never been kept, to restore the fundamental rights of the Palestinian people, or substantial aid for the creation of civil society – and I salute the representatives of civil society who were welcomed by my group yesterday – and a totally free and sovereign authority in Iraq.
Moreover, I would like the Council to tell us to what extent Al-Qaeda jihadists are being recruited from within the European Union, and to what extent terrorism against Iraq is being funded by mosques based in Europe.
Although Mr Dimitrakopoulos, in his report, fails to spell out the disruptive Arab influence on Iraq’s general reconstruction process, I do welcome his unambiguous request to the Commission for a meticulous justification of all EU projects in Iraq.
Mr Dimitrakopoulos does, however, address another, second, obstacle to Iraq’s reconstruction in the shape of the widespread evil of corruption within that country’s administrative apparatus.
Once again, the European Union can make a valuable contribution to Mesopotamia’s prospects.
The EU Special Representative for Afghanistan recently said that our political presence and substantial financial involvement in the country were necessary because the EU had made the mistake of failing to take any interest whatsoever in Afghanistan between 1990 and 2001.
In my opinion, both supporters and opponents of US intervention in Iraq – and I include myself in the latter camp – can and should agree on the fact that the EU must act as a stabilising force in Iraq and the surrounding region.
I should like to end by thanking Mr&#160;Straw for our meeting last Thursday in London, and to tell him that the Committee on Foreign Affairs still has the same chairman, namely Elmar Brok. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, a fortnight ago, our committee welcomed a delegation from the provisional parliament of Iraq, led by its President and his deputy, and including all factions – Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds together.
The chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was also present.
As always, in asymmetrical conflicts there is no military solution, but only a political solution.
In addition, it was also important to point out that the war against Iraq was cold-bloodedly sought by Mr Bush and deliberately sustained through a tissue of lies.
Once the invasion had been completed there was a moral duty to reconstruct Iraq, at least in physical terms, but political and military arrogance, incompetence, corruption and ineptitude have prevented this.
Thus, even passing over the disgrace of Abu Ghraib, they have lost, without winning the hearts and minds of the Iraqi people.
I therefore also address the Council and Commission representatives: now is the time to abandon the weaknesses of past divisions and to focus even more firmly on a common policy in order to escape the impotence that dogs minority coalitions.
Otherwise, it is just a charming collection of little bonsais crushed by the first passing elephant. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the war in Iraq Europe has experienced one of its greatest divisions of opinion, and because of this the Dimitrakopoulos report accomplishes a semi-miracle in seeking a possible equilibrium.
The actual situation on the ground unfortunately confirms all the doubts expressed by those who declared themselves opposed to military intervention.
In reality, we know that things have turned out differently.
On this point, we have set ourselves three objectives, namely the prior commitment – as the Solana doctrine calls it – with neighbouring countries, which can lend us a hand, not only not to export terrorists but also to help Iraq to emerge from the abyss; the training of the security forces, who are vital in planning the withdrawal of the occupying troops; and, finally, the constitutional agreement.
The signs of tension that are also present in Kurdistan give us cause to believe that this is really the last chance Europe has to achieve a better situation in the coming months. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Dimitrakopoulos, ladies and gentlemen, the road to hell is paved with good intentions.
The war and terrorism continue to feed off each other.
Before the war in Iraq there was no terrorism.
They must leave this country free to find its way.
They must leave them the oil, and with oil at 60 dollars a barrel they will find their way.
When Stalin interfered in Greece's internal affairs from 1944 to 1949, we slaughtered each other for many years.
The occupying army must leave.
The idea that Europe should cough up even more, by sending troops, for this aberrance on the part of the USA, is quite unacceptable.
After years of Saddam Hussein’s regime, the Iraqi people have now been given the opportunity to construct their country in a free and democratic way.
The parliamentary election, which was conducted under great pressure from forces that were interested in neither democracy nor free elections, was the first step in the democratisation process.
On the contrary, the situation is such that, for a long time to come, efforts will have to go on being made and a strong international presence will be required.
Constructing peace and democracy takes time and would do so even if all the forces in the country were well disposed towards these goals.
Therefore, our only alternative is to continue to support Iraq, both politically and through a strong international presence for as long as that is required.
I should like to call on all the rabble rousers in the Chamber, for whom time stopped two years ago and who still use the language of that period, to study this compromise and to ask themselves whether Iraqis will gain more from this compromise or from their rabble-rousing.
Previous speakers have already referred to Syria, and recent events both there and in Iran have shown that these countries must bear responsibility for what is happening within their borders.
The international community must put pressure on them, and they must also bear part of the responsibility for what is happening in Iraq.
These countries cannot pursue policies in secret, while sending out misleading signals.
Secondly, we must strengthen our dialogue with the political leadership in Iraq.
This is a task for a well-armed and well-prepared Iraqi army, as they are the only ones capable of protecting their own people. &#160;&#160; Mr President, reports before this Parliament seldom contain jokes, but there is some humour, if unintentional, in this one.
Its last attempt produced a Constitution that was opaque and confused and ran to almost 500 pages.
On the other hand, the United States of America has a clear and concise Constitution that runs to just a few pages of paper, with only about 27 amendments needed over the past 200 years.
If the EU becomes involved it might even offer to organise the constitutional referendum for the Iraqis, and that could lead to all kinds of unwanted problems. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Iraq is the frontline of the war against terrorists.
These terrorists have made it quite clear that their goal is to force foreign powers to withdraw from Iraq, and then to crush the beginnings of democracy in the country.
The war on terror is a global challenge with which the world was confronted at the beginning of the 21st century.
This is a war that we must win, because our opponent does not understand the meaning of such words as treaty, agreement, compromise, dialogue or peace.
The aim of modern terrorism is to destroy the civilisation in which we live.
These include a lack of water, to which two million Iraqis have no access, a lack of food – according to the latest UN report, one in four children goes hungry – a lack of work, with unemployment standing at 70%, a lack of security and the fear of terrorist attacks.
We cannot allow our most notable effort towards reconstructing Iraq to be the announcement that a Commission representation will be opened in Baghdad, or the sending of an observation mission to the December elections.
We must step up our involvement in Iraq, and this involvement must be better organised.
The cost of failure would be high.
A defeat for the democratic forces would strengthen the terrorists’ position, and this would have a knock-on effect in the shape of a new wave of terrorism, not only in Iraq but all over the world.
Peace in Iraq will be key for the development of transatlantic relations and for peace in the region as a whole.
I&#160;am sorry, but I&#160;disagree deeply with this view, because the ad-hoc coalition created and led by the Americans invaded a&#160;sovereign state without any international or legally acceptable mandate.
One of the positive aspects of this report is the recurring theme of the need for us all to look forward with Iraq; concentrating on what can be achieved as Iraq moves ahead into the future and not constantly referring to mistakes and decisions made in the past.
This is a valid debate but it adds nothing positive to this report at this stage.
First, in relation to political support, I was glad to hear Mr Brok referring to the visit of representatives from the transitional National Assembly to this Parliament recently, and it was a welcome event.
Primarily, we need to ensure that there is full participation of all groups in the drafting of that constitution.
I also welcome the Rule of Law and Police Training Mission, which will add considerably to the security situation in Iraq, and the new call for a new UN Security Council Resolution on Iraq, which is outlined in detail in the report.
Finally, we should not forget our human rights principles, despite the very difficult and extreme circumstances that continue in Iraq, particularly in relation to the death penalty. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the emphasis of the rapporteur and of Amendment 12, by the PSE Group, in supporting the EU’s positive commitment to the social, economic and political reconstruction of Iraq, to the success of the January elections, to the doubling of international partners for Iraq, as represented at the Brussels Conference, and to our united condemnation of all violence, kidnappings and human rights abuses within Iraq.
The European Parliamentary Labour Party cannot support those amendments that seek to rekindle the divisions of the past.
In that context, I note that Amendment 3, by the Verts/ALE Group, seeks to delete this Parliament’s commitment to fighting both terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
Everyone should vote against that amendment.
Twenty years under Saddam Hussein left five million Iraqis suffering from chronic poverty, the fastest increase in child mortality of any country in the world, access to safe water for less than half the people in rural areas and 60% wholly dependent on food handouts.
We cannot just talk about the situation, we have to take action, we have to turn the page.
As Mr Brok and Mrs Morgantini pointed out, we must also ensure that the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Iraq produce benefits for all Iraqis.
Of course we have to look to the constitution.
It also has to look to the future, creating a modern society in which women and religious communities must be given an appropriate stake.
This involves the training of 770 policemen and judiciary members.
At the moment they only have electricity for a few hours per day, in a climate where temperatures reach 50 degrees centigrade.
Conditions on the ground are exceedingly difficult.
We therefore have ongoing discussions with the World Bank, the UN and the Iraqis themselves.
I agree that it is very important that the international community encourage Iraq’s neighbours to adopt the same approach, striving towards reconciliation and unity in Iraq.
Of course, it is right in one sense to say you cannot discuss the future without understanding the past, and there are different analyses of the past.
They were fair elections: 8.6 million Iraqis voted, and they produced a representative assembly which now has instructions from the United Nations to bring forward a draft constitution in August and to have it ratified in a referendum in October for there to be further elections leading to a more permanent national government in December.
I suggest that it is responsibility of the whole of the international community, in support of that unanimous United Nations mandate, to ensure that this process works and works effectively.
I am deeply grateful to the Commission and to the Parliament for the support that they are giving to that process.
Yes, the situation in Iraq today is serious.
Yes, too many are being killed, but I would remind those who describe it simply as some kind of legitimate resistance that the overwhelming majority of the victims of this terrorism are not coalition forces, they are ordinary Iraqis.
I accept that, where there is this level of terrorism, there has to be a political process to try to bring people in as well as an immediate security response.
What has happened since – and Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner and I met representatives of the Sunni community and discussed the matter with members of the Shia and Kurdish communities – is an effort by the Iraqi Government to bring Sunnis in.
It has been difficult but, just two days ago, the National Assembly decided to confirm the representation of 15 Sunnis on the constitutional committee.
The other thing I would say is that any analysis of opinion in Iraq suggests that, despite the violence today, most Iraqis prefer what has happened and is happening today to what was going on before.
It is too many, but at least now the Iraqis can look forward to a democratic, peaceful future in which they control their destiny, which they never could under Saddam.
I am grateful to Mr Dimitrakopoulos and also to the Commission.
For our part, in the Presidency, we will do all we can over the next six months actively to support the work of the European Union as well as accepting our own responsibilities within Iraq as one of the contributors to the Coalition. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I greatly value the dialogue I have had with Parliament and its committees, not just over the last four years as Britain’s Foreign Minister but over the previous four years as Britain’s Home Secretary.
Indeed, I have been serving in the British Government long enough to recall our previous Presidency, seven and a half years ago, when I had the privilege of chairing the Justice and Home Affairs Council.
I also wish to congratulate Parliament on its initiative today to support the ‘Make Poverty History’ campaign.
Over the last few months, the headlines in Europe have often been about disagreement and difficulty.
Yet if we are to respond fully to people’s hopes and fears for the future, it is just as important that the EU strengthen its actions in the wider world.
One of the most striking developments of the last few years has been how much we have done already in the European Union to rise to that challenge, on a basis of very broad agreement.
A few years ago, Europe’s nations were severely divided, as we were reminded in the previous debate over Iraq.
Yet today we are taking strong common action in support of peace in the Middle East, Sudan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
We are leading the international community in the difficult but vital process of engagement with Iran.
But today an EU force is working with NATO in Bosnia on the ground.
EU missions there and in Macedonia are training police.
We have two European missions in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
We are assisting the African Union force in Sudan.
Nowhere is that more important than in Africa.
Africa’s share of world trade is one third of its level in 1980.
The total national income of sub-Saharan African countries is less than the developed world – the EU, the United States, Japan and a few other countries – spend on farming subsidies.
For three of the goals – those for hunger, poverty and sanitation – the situation in sub-Saharan Africa is getting worse day by day.
Twenty million Africans have already died of AIDS, now the continent’s biggest killer.
In Darfur – as Hilary Benn, my colleague and friend, the Secretary of State for International Development in the United Kingdom – and I have both seen for ourselves, the government-backed militia has killed many thousands of people.
The European Union has been right to send a firm message that the government of Zimbabwe’s behaviour is wholly unacceptable.
Today there are more than thirty democratically elected governments across the continent.
It is taking as its inspiration what the European Union has been able to achieve in a continent that was once itself characterised not by the peace and stability we now enjoy, but by conflict, war and bloodshed.
Through the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, NEPAD, African leaders have agreed to a peer review mechanism which many developed world governments, many governments in Europe, would find uncomfortably intrusive.
Some countries, such as Mozambique and Ethiopia, have achieved growth rates of around 7%, a level sufficient to lift large numbers of people out of poverty.
Africans want a better future and we in Europe, with our international partners, must continue to deliver the support to enable reform in Africa to take root and in turn help Africans to change the situation for the better.
So we have made this year a year of action and we have already achieved a great deal.
We are also resolved to make that aid better coordinated and more effective, building on the agreements made at the OECD meeting in Paris this spring.
At the United Nations Summit in September, we are going to review the Millennium Development Goals and strengthen international action to achieve them.
As part of this strategy, we have to deliver better access to developed markets for the world’s poorest countries, so as to make the Doha development agenda a reality, and we should start with this December’s meeting in Hong Kong.
The European Union, the United States and other rich countries must honour their commitments to abolish export subsidies and do so to a clear and explicit timetable.
The Joint EU-ACP Parliamentary Assembly has been a strong supporter of better governance in African states, as well as those in the Caribbean and Pacific.
They and the wider interest generated by the G8 Gleneagles meeting have hugely raised expectations in Africa and in Europe and across the developed world that this time the aid effort to Africa will work.
There is hardly a country anywhere in the world that does not have some special tie of history or friendship with one or other of the European Union’s Member States.
The latest enlargement, last May, added further to that network of partnership and trust and our global reach is mirrored in this Parliament and in your strong international engagement.
The third, and perhaps most important, strength is the strength of the European Union’s values.
Soft power in foreign policy has been defined as making others want what we want.
The magnetic pull of the EU’s success, its values and institutions, have helped to transform first southern, then central and eastern Europe and the prospect of EU membership is now spreading reform and stability to Turkey and across the Western Balkans.
Others here perhaps know the Western Balkans better than I do, but all of us who know the Western Balkans know that in reality the only thing that is helping to push those divided communities towards some prospect of peace and security is the European Union, its values and its strength.
Through these assets – our own strength, our global connections and the power of our values – the European Union today has even greater potential to increase its strength as a force for good across the world.
I look forward to working with you all towards that goal during our Presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, when I requested the development and humanitarian aid portfolio, I knew that Africa would be at the heart of my actions and my commitment.
My commitment also springs from a recognition that the context has changed and that we now have the opportunity, undoubtedly a unique opportunity, to make Africa a more prosperous, more stable and better governed continent.
The energetic and impressive action of the African Union in Darfur, Togo and Cote d’Ivoire, for example, has given a new dimension to the principle that African solutions must be found to African crises.
This action, based on robust regional organisations, opens up hitherto unhoped-for prospects for peace, stability and security.
If Africa has changed, Europe too has changed.
Finally, the world has changed.
What we want, as Europeans, is globalisation that benefits everybody, that is a positive lever for the whole of humanity, without exception.
As you know, to benefit from the opportunities offered by globalisation, governments must guarantee a macroeconomic framework.
They must also create effective and predictable conditions for this macroeconomic framework and must obviously also ensure governance within a framework that fosters economic activity.
From this point of view, and particularly for Africa, I believe that special efforts need to be focused on promoting equality between men and women.
At the same time, I think it is useful to stress that this construction will not stand up by itself.
The house of the African Union must be built on solid regional building blocks.
There will be no continental integration without regional organisation that is strong, ambitious and recognised.
As you are aware, at the end of the year I will be tabling not only a statement on development, an updating of development policy that we will, of course, have debated and that we will debate together, but also a proper master plan for Africa.
Efforts to improve governance are being made at various different levels.
Over the last five years more than two thirds of the countries in sub-Saharan Africa have held multiparty elections, some freer and fairer than others, and several changes of government have taken place democratically and peacefully: only very recently there were elections in Burundi.
I hope that we will also see significant progress in March in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
I also wish to remind you that 23 African countries have ratified the Statute creating the International Criminal Court.
The most striking fact of recent years is that Africa itself has given itself a vision, a mission and principles.
This mechanism deserves our full support.
The European Union has demonstrated the relevance of this fact.
It is vital to intensify current efforts to improve and to ensure the durability of the infrastructure networks, both to accelerate growth and to promote trade.
In parallel with this partnership on infrastructure, we shall have to break new ground in terms of financing mechanisms, based on the participation of the private sector and other sponsors.
All those involved recognise the central role of trade in economic growth.
Africa’s share in global exports has fallen by almost 60%, which corresponds to a loss of USD 70 billion a year, that is the equivalent of 21% of the region’s GDP, more than five times the USD 13 billion that come into Africa every year in development aid.
As you know, we are currently negotiating economic partnership agreements with six regions, four of which are in sub-Saharan Africa.
Peter Mandelson, the Commissioner for Trade, is negotiating these agreements.
For the first time the European Union is providing financial support to its partners’ negotiation teams.
For the first time these agreements are based on, and for, the regional integration of our partners and, for the first time, our financial and technical cooperation can be used for reform, budgetary support, action to improve the capacity for supply growth, and the building of an attractive environment for investment and trade.
Culture is a key dimension of development which, in my opinion, has hitherto been forgotten all too often.
That is why it seems to me that taking into account the particular societal and cultural identity of Africa is the only way in which we can ensure that our development aid is rooted in the reality on the ground and boost its effectiveness.
There is also the question of choice or whether the priority should be given to budgetary aid, and under what conditions, rather than to aid through projects.
This question will, no doubt, form the subject of a debate at the end of the year, along with consistency and coordination.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have rapidly sketched out the framework within which we can bring answers to a subject as vast and as important as the one that you have put on the agenda.
We shall, of course, have the opportunity to return to these questions before the end of the year in the context of the new policy and in the context of this focus on Africa.
We in the European Parliament have done so, symbolically encircling the Chamber with a white band and asking Members to sign in support of the campaign organised by hundreds of organisations across the world.
Nelson Mandela, in his message to the G8, expressly said that hunger is also the hunger for justice and added – and I share the sentiment his words express – that poverty, like slavery, is not natural but man-made and can be eradicated by human beings.
Overcoming poverty is not an act of charity but an act of justice and defence of a fundamental human right: the right to live in dignity.
In recent years we have seen how the structural adjustment programmes, savage privatisations and the headlong liberalisation of markets and services – and in saying this I do not mean that I am opposed to trade – have helped to exacerbate the problem of hunger and poverty.
We cannot invade the markets of African countries with our subsidised products and destroy local economies.
I hope that the awareness that can be observed in the people and among us will also be displayed at the next WTO round in Hong Kong and that the Millennium Objectives, which are a fundamental intermediate stage, can be achieved.
The efforts made by Mr Michel and the Luxembourg Presidency at the Council of Ministers have been positive and have produced an increase in aid.
Another important issue is debt cancellation, which the African Union summit called for yesterday.
As you are aware, the problem of poverty is at its worst in Africa, particularly in the sub-Sahara.
As rapporteur for the development strategy for Africa, I am pleased that both the Commissioner and the British Presidency have chosen to give priority to Africa.
Further to the resolution, I should like to say that it is, of course, a good thing to free up more funds to fight poverty, but as someone said a moment ago, the solution to effective poverty reduction is not merely financial.
Emergency aid will still sometimes be necessary, but, if we want to establish stable societies, we must, in our dealings with poor countries, concentrate on promoting good governance, building up capacity and economic empowerment, particularly of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as a sound social infrastructure, good education and health care.
As for the burden of debt, debt reduction is not a panacea for poverty.
On the contrary: it is time for justice and solidarity to transcend our borders and to make their mark on all European policies and actions on the international stage, as laid down in the constitutional Treaty.
The first is the Development Council in May’s confirmation of significant commitments with a view to realising the Millennium Development Objectives, maintaining the objectives set five years ago.
I welcome Mr Straw’s comments on the Doha agenda, but the fight against poverty will be won or lost not in headline talks between world leaders but in the anonymous rooms where civil servants hammer out the detail of trade agreements.
Therefore, could the Commission and the Council give us an assurance today that, when it comes to nitty-gritty trade discussions in the months ahead, making poverty history will still be top of the agenda, away from the world’s media and away from parliamentary scrutiny?
We must go one step further than trade agreements and support developing countries in building their capacity for trade through things like microcredit and better transport links, as Commissioner Michel mentioned, so that both regional and world markets can be accessed to the full.
Liberals and Democrats have always stressed the importance of fighting corruption and fostering good governance.
Indeed, in its report, the Commission for Africa stressed the importance of pragmatism, of having a programme of action based not on ideology but on sound evidence about what works and what does not. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, more than thirty years ago the ecologist René Dumont said that Africa was in a sorry state.
And now you must recognise that the dogmatic liberalisation of trade, the plans for structural adjustment, the excessive privatisation and, of course, the broken promises have only served to worsen a situation that was already very difficult to the detriment of education and health policies in particular.
What is needed now is for us to set about resolving, in the North as well as in the South, problems as fundamental as the three that I should like to list for you here.
If we cannot clearly say yes to these three questions at least, then this great rousing media show, with the generous white knight coming to the aid of Africa, will have been, once again, no more than a sham.
The European Union must regard these demands as being addressed to itself and must consistently contend for a just global economic order.
I call for disclosure of the extent to which official development aid and partnership agreements constitute a sort of development aid for big European businesses.
Before the EU’s summit on development policy kicks off, we want an answer to the question as to how the EU will ensure that industry receives no support of such a scandalous kind. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the British Presidency, the Commission, the President of Parliament, Bob Geldof: everybody is talking about it.
And we are all slapping ourselves on the back; there is a mood of self-congratulation over our giving more money to Africa, as if, somehow, money will solve the whole problem.
Well, I am afraid that I remain a bit of a cynic and I see foreign aid as poor people in rich countries giving money to rich people in poor countries.
We have spent over EUR&#160;2&#160;billion of European taxpayers’ money bribing poor black African governments to allow the Spanish fleet in to fish.
That is the main question to be posed here today.
Millions of people all over the world are trapped in bitter, unrelenting poverty because of largely man-made factors: a questionable global trade system, demands from prosperous countries for large amounts of money to service debts.
The gap between the rich and the poor has never been wider.
It is a small amount, but it is a step in the right direction.
The cancellation of all debt can only be effective if international aid is continued at a sustainable level.
I would urge all wealthy nations to affirm their commitment to fulfilling their aid obligation within a reasonable and realistic time frame.
This Parliament, other parliaments and politicians are often accused of ignoring what people really want.
The people have spoken on this issue and we must act – and act decisively.
It is the protection of a fundamental human right, the right to dignity and a decent life’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the socialists of the new Italian Socialist Party and as a member of the Committee on Development.
According to the classification lists and assessment criteria of organisations such as the World Bank,Freedom House and Transparency Internationala growing number of African countries now have the leadership and quality of governance to be able to obtain economic results, but they do not have the requisite resources.
Even countries governed relatively well remain, in reality, prisoners of the poverty trap.
They are too poor to manage to trigger economic development processes or even merely to achieve basic growth.
With extremely low levels of internal savings, and external investment flows that are equally low, the current economic conditions in Africa do not offer any hope for escape from poverty.
The rich countries ought to commit themselves to doubling aid in the 2005-2015 period, achieving at least 0.5% of GDP by 2010 and 0.7% by 2015.
This increase seems a very small thing when compared with the wealth of countries with a high income or with military spending worldwide, which amounts to USD&#160;900 billion a year.
The last 50 years have seen 400 million die of hunger: three times the cull of a century’s wars.
Let us find ways of repaying the debt repayments into those countries, into the Millennium Development Goals, into the country strategy papers, and then debt can be a benefit rather than a burden. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ‘Everyone belongs to the world and the world belongs to everyone’, according to my favourite Dutch musician, Thé Lau of The Scene, and also according to Live 8, as transmitted on 140 television channels.
At present, 2015, the date named in the Millennium Goals, seems to be getting further and further away.
There are four important things that I think the EU presidency has to do.
Thirdly, five of the eight Millennium Goals concern two of the most important conditions for development, namely basic education and health care.
We should use them and invest in them to achieve good governance in Africa.
I wish you success. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I think that we can echo Mr Michel, who proposes to do more, better and more quickly.
As far as the European Union is concerned, our objectives are, for the time being, a little below that, as we will see an increase from 0.38% to 0.50%.
Above all, there is a link between the second increase and the greater efforts we must make to inform public opinion.
Our action must be clear.
That is why I proposed that the European Union should take direct charge of objectives such as child vaccination campaigns or the fight against malaria, because it is possible – if rather macabre – to quantify these actions.
In this way, then, we could become a Union that is open, shows solidarity and, above all, is effective. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have just come back from the civil society alternative G8 meetings in Edinburgh, where thousands of people debated how to make poverty history.
Poverty in Africa is largely the direct and logical consequence of the policies of the G8 nations and their corporations, which have been driving Africa’s accumulation of debt, which have been selling weapons, which have been stealing Africa’s resources, which have been enforcing neo-liberal economics, which have been privatising public services and which have collectively impoverished so many millions of people.
Firstly, we must declare water, education, health and food to be global public goods.
Thirdly, we must entrust the management of these services to an economic security council analogous to the United Nations Security Council.
Fifthly, and finally, we must enable Africa to use the same means that all western countries have used to develop, namely tariff protection, but smart tariff protection this time, in the form of reimbursable customs duties.
Mr President, I give you a present of three seconds! &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, some journalists have made ironic comments asking why politicians have not already put a stop to poverty, since they are in a position to do so.
I do not believe that the issue of global poverty is a matter about which we should joke or make puns.
Among other things, EU enlargement has meant that a larger number of countries now participate in development cooperation, and the new Member States are playing an increasingly active role in the fight against poverty.
Under the auspices of the HIPC debt relief initiative, Poland has decided to cancel all debt from three countries, two of which are in Africa.
Poland’s experiences are proof that effective and long-lasting economic reform can only start after a country has undergone political transformation.
Mr&#160;Straw and Commissioner&#160;Michel therefore made a key point by saying that good management and the fight against corruption are the most important challenges for Africa.
The second pillar of our policy, in addition to development policy, should be public understanding, and campaigns like ‘Make Poverty History’ help to raise public awareness. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I will begin by saying how proud I am of the UK Presidency’s very strong commitment to making poverty history.
The world must at last be ready to keep its promises to Africa: on aid, on unpayable debts, and on fair trade.
We must also understand that poor governance is as much a result of pervasive poverty as it is a cause.
We, on the other hand, are convinced that these two issues are of the highest priority and I thus believe that we must be a little less hypocritical and admit that public aid can also be linked to progress by these countries along this path.
We are all pushing for democracy in the Arab world, but not in Africa.
It has become apparent over recent years that the problem lies, not in the quantity of development aid, but in how such aid, in order to achieve optimal results, is targeted.
We should be working, systematically, towards greater transparency and democracy in as many African countries as possible.
We can all ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank my friend, Luisa Morgantini, for her splendid initiative to put the issue of poverty in Africa on the agenda.
Many countries that are poor in economic terms, but rich in wisdom, could give us much inspiration.
The institutions necessary for life in society are part and parcel of this, whether they are political or whether they are expressions of spiritual life.
When the latter are rooted in true human values, it would be a grave mistake to sacrifice them.
In order to live it would be sacrificing its reason for living. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, what if, after these last few rather sad weeks for the European Union, it were now to bounce back, precisely on the issue of development, and prove that it is in the vanguard of the fight against poverty.
The European Union is on the right track with its twofold commitment: 0.7% of its wealth for development aid by 2015 and 50% of this increase for Africa.
I am delighted that the British Presidency is making Africa its central concern.
Tony Blair must also take advantage of his presidency of the G8 to obtain something other than declarations of intent from the rich: the only cheque that he must defend is the one promised at Monterrey.
We must reach conclusions now because, in the words of the slogan of the global campaign against poverty, after 2005 there will be no more excuses. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a quarter of a century has passed since Willy Brandt presented his report on North-South relations.
In reality, the latest report on poverty in the world demonstrates that there has only been a degree of progress in China, in some countries in South-East Asia and in some specific cases in Latin America.
After 40 years, dozens of wars and millions of deaths have left the continent of Africa exhausted.
If we want to make progress on the objective of reducing poverty by half by 2015, these points I have indicated demonstrate the direction we must take if we are to succeed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to consign poverty to history, the gap between words and deeds needs to be closed.
Neo-liberalist prescriptions have failed and the positive commitment of Europe as a principal donor has not yet made any decisive impact.
A final suggestion in order to help the British Presidency, especially the Foreign Minister, Jack Straw, get out of the tangle in the budgetary negotiations, is to think about including the European Development Fund in the real budget of the European Union. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, last year the rich countries of the world spent USD&#160;80&#160;billion on foreign aid, USD&#160;600&#160;billion on defence and USD&#160;300&#160;billion on agricultural subsidies for their own countries.
Rich countries have all the means at their disposal to eradicate hunger, poverty and the many diseases that currently kill millions, such as malaria.
Then we can all stand with our heads held high’. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I welcome the British initiative and I hope that it will have substantial results, because it is true that, despite the pronouncements to date by the leaders of the strong states, little progress has been made.
However, particular importance must be attached to the administration of resources through close cooperation and supervision by the various international organisations and non-governmental organisations.
I think that everything else we hear covers the issue superficially and does not get to the root of it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I strongly support the proposal made by our colleague Mr Stubb.
The Presidency representative just spoke about soft power, where the European Union is successful.
To those Members of this House who are always – and not just because of the British Council Presidency’s initiative – working on this topic, I want to make it clear that the Socialist Group in this House regards the fight against poverty, both in Africa and in the world at large, as a key part of the work it does.
The people who attended the Live 8 concerts and the people who write to us, their elected representatives, and demand that we do more are all expressing the feeling that now is the time to act – a point made by Mrs Martens and by Mr Bowis.
There has never been a time, in my political experience, when this debate about Africa, poverty, its causes and what we can do about it has been so much at the centre of our politics.
It seems to me that the message that we are being sent by those we represent is very simple: they look to us to act and they want to have faith in the capacity of the political process to deliver real change on behalf of Africa and of development.
That is why the leadership that Europe showed, when we met as development ministers over a month ago, in agreeing to double Europe’s aid to Africa, was Europe at its best.
That is the first point.
The second point is debt relief, which many speakers have referred to.
There are two other truths that we have to tell in this debate.
Two-and-a-half weeks ago I was in Sudan, first of all in Rumbek, in the south of Sudan, where one in four children die before they are five years of age and three-quarters of the adults cannot read.
The experience in Darfur and southern Sudan has taught us one very important lesson: unless there is peace and stability, there will be no development; unless people stop fighting each other, the people of Africa will not have a better future.
That is why Europe must continue to show leadership and provide support to the African Union, building the capacity of Africa to tackle its own conflicts.
In the end it is about governments with a capacity to deliver and about people who have the expectation that government might be able to improve their lives.
In the end, it is about political will and political choice.
That is what politics is for: how we decide what kind of world it is that we want to live in; where we are going to spend the money; what decisions we are going to make on trade to allow developing countries to have a better future.
I am sorry that I have had to interrupt you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to speak on a point of order, pursuant to Rules 146 and 148.
The first thing that this debate has highlighted is that there is a consensus and very strong support for the choice of Africa as the focal point of development policy.
The second element that I take from this debate is that everything suggests that we should develop, define and finalise a genuine European strategy for development, and for Africa in particular, a strategy structured around the major development issues – governance, infrastructure and debt.
For example, someone said that the debt issue would not solve everything.
The debt issue is certainly important, but it is not, strictly speaking, a development tool.
The provision of social policies following the emergence of a dynamic civil society, the provision of social policies of access to justice, access to education, access to health and also to culture – as I said before – is an important point.
I believe that all of these things should form part of a global strategy, a global plan and a specific programme that we must implement.
The difficulties lie in the fact that, once we have this programme, very strong leadership will need to be exerted over the bureaucracies that will have to implement it.
For that I am counting on the support of both Parliament and the Council; at Commission level we will do everything in our power to progress these issues.
I think that after all the promises that have been made, and given all of the prospects – extremely credible ones, too – that are open to us, and all of the propitious circumstances that are combining now to produce this firm hope, it will be necessary to provide tangible proof very rapidly that matters are progressing in line with expectations.
Another element that I should like to emphasise, concerning Africa in particular, is the especially important role of all policies promoting equality between men and women in the continent.
It is an aspect of the problem that we do not tackle often enough and I should really like to see it taken into account across the whole range of policies, because there are solutions to be found there and opportunities to exploit.
I wanted to say, as Hilary Benn and Jack Straw have done, that now is the time to act.
Someone said earlier that perhaps it would be a good thing if, out of this development policy, out of this new impetus, the magical idea of Europe could be given a new impetus.
The vote will take place next. &#160;&#160; ‘Your first duties, first not as regards time but as regards importance and because without attempting them you can only carry out the others in an imperfect fashion, are your duties towards humanity’, said Mazzini.
This is my way of expressing my solidarity with those countries where we thought that we could increase charity and funds without worrying about their actual development and the eradication of poverty.
The most recent European Council decided to increase aid to EUR&#160;20 billion per year by 2010, and this is a hopeful sign for many millions of people.
We can overcome poverty, and we are the first generation to be able to do so because we have the means available to us. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting on one of the longestvoting sessions in our history with 972 amendments. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am speaking to put forward a procedural motion with reference to Rule 152.
Yesterday afternoon during the debate in the Chamber we examined the entire package on regional policies.
Since the voting list sets out a different order, I propose that after the report by Mr Hatzidakis, my report on the Cohesion Fund and the report by Mr Casa should be put to the vote, so that the whole package is voted on in a single process using the same order adopted yesterday during the debate.
Above all, however, there is a collective and unanimous anger on the part of the entire Parliament at the unacceptable way it has been treated by the Commission and the Council.
A total absence of any consultation by the Commission in drafting the text for the second reading.
Repeated attempts even to stop discussions between Governments within the Council itself.
In that context, rejection is a message directed at the European Patent Office.
The European Parliament has refused to ratify the recent judicial errors by extending the scope of patentability to certain software programs.
If these errors were to continue, it now seems clear that a parliamentary majority would emerge to put a stop to them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, what we have always heard from the Commission is that it would be unwilling to submit a new proposal in the event of the Common Position being rejected, but let me remind the House of the Interinstitutional Agreement, which we concluded on 15&#160;September 1999 with the former President, Mr Prodi, and in which the Commission undertook to take initiatives as and when Parliament calls upon it to do so.
I do not doubt that the House will call upon the Commission to submit a new proposal, and would remind the Commission that it is obliged to do so, and that that is what must happen. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I do not think that we can necessarily interpret this vote as an invitation to the Commission to put forward a new proposal rather similar to the one that has been rejected.
Many speakers during the debate yesterday mentioned the voice of the people and the role of democracy.
This means that different interpretations as to what is patentable or not will continue without any judicial control by the European Court of Justice.
A large amount of national patent law is already aligned with the European Patent Convention and the Community Patent Convention of 1989.
Again, Commissioner McCreevy will be happy to debate these matters with you.
Time and time again, the Council presented us with new changes, while proving indifferent to those proposed by the parliamentary delegation.
I would like to make one final remark with regard to Amendment 53, which is also part of the compromise package, but which, unfortunately, not all groups were able to support.
Having said that, I would appeal to Members to keep up the pace. &#160;&#160; Mr President, since we have grouped all the Structural Funds together, it would be logical to vote now on the Casa report on the European Fisheries Fund. &#160;&#160; .
We are able to endorse this amendment subject to the following phrase being added: ‘and calls on the Turkish Government to support this;’ The entire amendment now reads as follows: ‘Suggests that the political parties should review their party structures and adopt adequate strategies to reach a better balance on women and men in elected assemblies, including positive measures such as quotas, and calls on the Turkish Government to support this;’ &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I have the text in English and would like to address these remarks to the Greens.
I would like to change the figures, because the number of victims is changing every day.
This House has adopted a resolution to the effect that voting ends at 1.30 p.m.
After that, I shall ask if you wish to continue today with the important issue of the fight against poverty, on which the voting will be fairly brief, but first we must finish the Dimitrakopoulos report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, once again I shall read the English text.
This is an addition: a further recital. ‘whereas the war in Iraq, its various aspects and its consequences continue to be a sensitive issue for public opinion and governments in Europe and the United States’. &#160;&#160; – Before continuing with the voting, I have a statement to make to Parliament.
I am sorry that the Council is not present as I would have asked the representative of the UK Presidency to make a comment on the statement I am about to make: the city that has been selected to host the 2012 Olympic Games is London. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should just like to speak from the point of view of Britain concerning that announcement.
May I first of all pay a compliment to the hard work and the very combative way other European cities have fought for the Olympic Games, particularly our colleagues in Madrid and Paris.
From a London point of view, I hope everybody here will attend those Games and we will fight at those Games in a competitive spirit to show Europe at its very best. &#160;&#160; – We wish the European team a rich haul of medals in 2012. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe that this is self-evident.
That brings the voting to a close. &#160;&#160; The report is aimed at having the EU accede to UN Economic Commission for Europe Regulations Nos&#160;94 and 95.
I call on the Council to oppose this proposal. &#160;&#160; – Decabromodiphenylether is a brominated flame retardant well known to Parliament: in February 2003, it was placed ‘under close surveillance’ and, at the same time, the European Union, in a report of which I was the author, banned its two ‘sister’ substances, penta and octa BDE.
It is, moreover, a substance that the European Union has undertaken to ban in electrical and electronic equipment from 1 July 2006.
I therefore support this resolution and call on the Commission to reverse its decision.
Should it fail to do so, I shall have no hesitation, with a number of my colleagues, in referring the matter to the Court of Justice. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I have three short observations to make on the software patents directive.
Secondly, this was a clear sign of an interinstitutional power struggle, in which the Commission and the Council ought to have listened to Parliament and followed suit.
Thirdly, the whole debate was riddled with misunderstandings, and I hope that the Commission will not at this stage simply give up, but put a new proposal on the table, because at some stage we will also need a European software patents directive. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I joined the vast majority in this House in voting against this draft directive.
Today, here in this House, I believe that reason has notched up a victory against the interests of a few big IT manufacturers and their lobbyists.
The problem we are now faced with is that the national legislation continues to apply without amendment, and that the courts will come to very different decisions.
I call on the Commission not only to put before us a new proposal for a Community patent, having first discussed it with experts on the subject, but also to make a start on drafting it with the minimum possible delay. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;It is my belief that Europe needs common, clear and up-to-date rules on patents, as these would play a crucial role in removing barriers within the EU’s internal market, in boosting investment in research, in preventing piracy and in protecting Europe as a whole.
I very much appreciate the efforts of those Members from all political groups, including the European People’s Party, who have helped us reach a joint compromise on our 20&#160;amendments to the directive.
At the end of the political negotiations, I voted in favour of rejecting the directive.
I did so because I believe that this will allow Parliament to send out a clear and strong signal to the Council and the Commission that they should step up efforts to draft a joint proposal for a general European patent, instead of concentrating on a directive relating to a specific type of patent. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I should like to express my satisfaction at the rejection of this common position, having failed to achieve anything better – in other words, having failed to be able to approve Mr Rocard's amendments one by one, which were intended to bring us back to the first reading by the European Parliament.
At first reading, the European Parliament adopted an unambiguous wording.
Today it has just rejected the patentability of software programs.
I believe we should stick to that and revert to the wording of Article 52 of the Munich European Convention because, in reality, it was not so much a question of confirming the patentability of software programs but rather of an offensive aimed at making them patentable.
This offensive has been halted today in a major victory for European parliamentary democracy over the lobbies and over the Commission’s manoeuvring. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I want to explain why I voted not to reject the computer-related implemented inventions directive.
I see the proposed legislation of making software patentable as a threat to an industry which requires creativity and innovation in order to thrive.
There can be no question of patenting software programs which are, in any event, well protected by copyright.
The common position was a step in the right direction, but still left grey areas which should have been eliminated by voting for the Rocard amendments.
We are opposed to patents on pure software and wish to protect classic patent law.
Our ambition has been to improve the Council of Ministers’ common position.
The consequences of certain wordings also have been difficult to foresee.
It is therefore good that Parliament wishes to reject the proposal.
As we have consistently said since the Commission tabled the proposal for a directive in 2002, implementing software patents would undermine intellectual freedom, technological innovation and the development of Europe’s economy, as scientists, professors, the student community, many organisations and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) have rightly pointed out.
The high costs of patents would hinder SMEs, which would not have the wherewithal to pay for patents and might even see their ideas patented by third parties.
We have therefore done as before and signed the proposal to reject the Council common position, which was adopted today.
The VVD is opposed to European patent laws sector-by-sector, and, favouring an integral approach, calls on the Commission to table a proposal for one single Community patent, which would offer more legal certainty.
This would make it possible for the current long-winded and costly system of granting patents to be replaced by a more effective one.
At the same time, we would urge all the lobby organisations to deploy the same heavy artillery to persuade the French Government to abandon their opposition to one official language in Community patents and thereby open up a competitive and innovative future to their young people.
For this reason, I&#160;support the consistent protection of software products by protecting proprietary innovatory solutions for an entire program or a&#160;part thereof, but not issuing patents for individual ideas.
After all, it was Einstein who said that you cannot patent a&#160;mathematical formula.
A patentable invention is a solution that combines an idea with a technical device, such as software for mobile phones or ABS systems in cars.
Patenting will provide companies with returns on their investments in developing an invention, and will encourage further investment in research and development.
As the report correctly points out, ‘a piece of software is no more patentable than a musical chord or a combination of words.
As a liberal and fierce defender of the values of entrepreneurial freedom and healthy and fair economic competition, I could not accept a text that was ‘tailor-made’ for certain major companies, already enjoying a virtual monopoly in their respective sectors.
Over the two years of this debate, I have not met a single computer expert, university researcher, ordinary user or boss of an SME software producer who had a good word to say in favour of this directive.
This can be no mere coincidence. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;I was among the small number of Members who voted against the motion to reject the proposal for a directive on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions.
Parliament had an opportunity to state its opinion on this proposal and to change its contents as it saw fit during the codecision procedure.
The broad coalition comprises groups of Members with widely differing views.
Members who are opposed to effective protection for intellectual property as such, or in other words those on the far left, voted against the directive, but I do not belong to their number.
A number of Members voted against the directive because they believe that Parliament’s political influence on the legislative process should be extended.
Finally, all those Members who believe that the proposal for a directive poses a threat to Poland’s national interests, or in other words Polish MEPs, voted against.
This report will bring improvements in making information available to the public and in ensuring a better understanding of the amounts of polluting substances emitted by installations.
We also feel that the restriction of long-term public aid commitments to businesses should be strengthened, especially in terms of jobs, as we proposed. &#160;&#160; – The reform of the Structural Funds will not solve the problems posed by enlargement in the East; what it will do is penalise France.
The German failure in the Eastern states of the former Communist German Democratic Republic suggests it may not.
This concentration of regional policy on the countries of Eastern Europe will, however, have two unfortunate consequences for France: - It will reduce the already modest share allocated to France.
For instance, Corsica and French Hainault, in the Nord Pas de Calais region, have not received Structural Funds, intended for Europe’s poor regions, for the last five years. - The increase in regional expenditure, which is now the largest item in Europe’s budget, will involve a reduction in agricultural spending, from which our farmers benefited, and an increase in the overall budget of Brussels and, therefore, in the French contribution to that budget.
I am especially pleased that a new paragraph in Article 3 has been adopted, which states that regions affected by the statistical effect – such as the Algarve – must receive sufficient financial support to enable them to pursue the convergence process and that there should be no differential between them on the basis of population.
I welcome proposed reforms that should enhance the quality of EU structural funds expenditure such as more simplification, better strategic planning, cutting bureaucracy and more transparency and accountability. &#160;&#160; . – I, like the large majority of my political group, supported the Hatzidakis report because: · it supports the regions in danger of being damaged by the statistical effect of enlargement; · it calls for the outermost regions to be treated as a special case as regards their access to the Structural Funds; · it proposes that unspent resources due to the N+2 rule be reallocated to areas which can make good use of them; · it rejects any renationalistion of regional policy spending; · it calls for fair treatment for islands and sparsely populated regions; · it makes the rights of people with disabilities a prime priority of cohesion policy.
The European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund are all of the highest importance in promoting the objectives of economic growth competitiveness, wealth creation and reducing the enormous regional disparities.
I was therefore pleased to see the rapporteur address areas that I consider essential.
The inclusion of ‘statistical effect’, the recognition of natural effect regions, the rejection of the 150 km limit for defining maritime regions, the emphasis on equality issues and the strengthening of environmental concerns should all be welcomed.
The Structural Funds are used by governments to strengthen the plutocracy of the Member States, the imperialist plans of the Member States, the concentration of capital and the escalation of the monopolies.
They are used to promote capitalist restructurings which strike at the wage and social rights of the workers and at health, welfare and education, and to make sweeping changes in the rural economy and other sectors.
The law of asymmetrical development is inexorable.
Enormous problems are faced by the workers and, in particular, the residents of the island, outlying and mountain areas of Greece.
The country concerned will thus be penalised twice over and the rapporteur’s proposal to make this a political decision by the Council, rather than an automatic decision, does not resolve the problem.
We also consider the amounts earmarked for this Fund for 2007 to 2013 to be inadequate, particularly in light of the EU enlargement.
This is the key problem for Portugal in talks on the future of this fund, and is my greatest concern.
Greater effort is therefore required on the part of the EU’s cohesion policy, which is currently undergoing a root and branch reform with a view to taking on board the impact of enlargement.
The recommendations tabled in the various reports submitted to the vote today, and particularly that of my Group colleague Mr Fava on the European Regional Development Fund, address these concerns.
Nonetheless, we must recognise the enormously positive effect that this fund has had on Portugal and must focus on the rules that will apply to it in times ahead.
Accordingly, I endorse the priorities expressed in this report, such as that of ensuring that these funds are distributed more fairly, in such a way that past and future enlargements do not undermine the least developed regions and countries of the EU.
The position adopted on Article 2 of the ERDF promoting social inclusion and recognising the need to remove barriers faced by disabled people in accessing goods and services in built up areas is particularly welcome. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, this is a sad and tragic day for the new Member States, which are suffering yet more discrimination.
With regard to the Hatzidakis, Fava and Andria reports, the ground rules have been changed.
The scope for new Member States to use the Structural Funds has been altered and severely restricted, with the goalposts being moved in terms of the N+2 rule for the Cohesion Fund and with the rejection of private sector participation.
It is discrimination against the local authorities and civil organisations in the new Member States.
Steps taken to reduce difficulties in managing cross-border, transnational and inter-regional cooperation are therefore of particular importance.
I therefore endorse the report by Mr Olbrycht on instituting a Community-level instrument which allows the creation of cooperative groupings in the Community territory, invested with legal personality, to be known as ‘European groupings of territorial cooperation (EGTC)’.
In particular, the initial block vote of 80&#160;amendments contained positive modifications looking to promote women's participation in the labour market and promoting work-life balance.
The Commission’s latest proposal can be divided into two parts: one with a view to modernising the European social model by investing in people, and the other to simplifying texts and procedures.
Accordingly, I support the amendment to Article 3(1), aimed at broadening the scope of application of this fund, and broadly endorse the Silva Peneda report. &#160;&#160; Many of the report’s objectives in terms of sustainable integration, social protection and increased gender equality are worth striving for.
However, these issues are best dealt with at lower levels of decision-making, rather than at EU level.
With a view to controlling the EU’s growing zeal for centralisation and regulation, the EU’s tasks need to be clearly demarcated and its budget kept within bounds.
In particular, my own amendments which seek to improve accessibility for disabled persons in the workplace, and to train employers in equal opportunities recruitment, disability awareness and non-discrimination.
I also welcome the adoption of my amendments that prioritise the involvement of local communities and enterprises and promoting local development initiatives, such as urban social projects, lifelong learning and active citizenship.
Voluntary organisations at the grassroots level must be enabled to take part in our funding programmes.
For that matter, Portugal has been a privileged witness to this success.
This fund is of particular importance at this juncture, when our efforts should be channelled into implementing the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy.
Against this backdrop, the proposals tabled by both the Council and the rapporteur are worthy of my wholehearted support, as both clearly address these concerns. &#160;&#160; We Moderates have today rejected the European Parliament’s proposal concerning the European Fisheries Fund.
Sustainable development and the precautionary principle, general principles applied to the common fisheries policy, only serve to disguise a restrictive policy in terms of fisheries, fishing areas, fishing days and agreements with third countries.
It is therefore crucial that we attach the highest importance to this report, so that we can defend our legitimate interests.
After all, Portugal must not forget that there are major conurbations in its coastal areas – due to the country’s history and geography – and there would be no justification for excluding those areas from Community support.
The use of public money to build new boats and therefore to increase capacity cannot be acceptable at a time when so many fish stocks are under threat.
The monitoring of these practices should therefore cover all of these areas.
What the Member States need to do, in conjunction with the social partners, is to combat the problem of the continuing gender-based wage differentials and gender segregation on the labour market by means of regulatory measures enabling both men and women to combine family and work commitments more easily.
Furthermore, if we are to achieve equality between women and men, changes applicable to both men and women will need to be made.
It is therefore important that the Member States, in collaboration with the social partners, implement strategies to make equality between men and women a reality. &#160;&#160; We are completely in favour of women and men being treated equally in matters of employment and occupation.
These are matters that the Member States can usefully deal with independently in accordance with international agreements already adopted. &#160;&#160; – When the European Commission takes steps to simplify and strengthen the legal basis and codify Community legislation, it can count on us.
For me, this is an encouraging initiative because it concerns Community legislation on the equality of treatment and opportunity for men and women, which has developed since 1975.
In spite of its imperfections and the shortcomings in the way it has been applied, this legislation has made a major contribution to reducing discrimination against women, especially in the workplace.
Belonging to a generation which has suffered all possible and impossible types of discrimination, I understand the true value of the Community policy of equality of treatment.
Our rapporteur and I, with other colleagues in my group, have had great difficulty in thwarting the preposterous demands of certain extremists, demands which are counter-productive for employment and the very equality of opportunity for women which they claim to want to foster.
I therefore give my backing to the report on the Commission proposal aimed at modernising and simplifying Community law in the area of equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation.
I share her view that this new version of the directive represents a step in the right direction for Community law in the area of equal treatment between men and women.
I support Mrs Niebler’s report, which draws attention to the need to meet the objective of modernising and simplifying Community legislation in the area of equality between men and women in matters of employment and occupation, in order to give greater clarity and legal certainty.
And that is the great merit of Mrs Wallis’ report, which helps to improve legal certainty in this area.
Rather than seek an artificial unification of all rules of law, she achieves unification by proposing a harmonisation of the rules governing the conflict of laws and jurisdiction – which is the correct approach – in order to determine which law is to apply, and this makes it possible to combine the package of national rules with the demands of legal certainty.
The necessary right of reply, in particular, tends to be substantively violated due to the procedural difficulties with which it has to contend, all in the name of an abusive interpretation of press freedom.
In this context, the proposed solutions are reasonable but must not restrict the rights of the persons subject to attack.
We shall vote in favour of this report. &#160;&#160; We are in principle well disposed towards the proposal to create standard conflict-of-laws rules for non-contractual obligations.
The proposal would supplement the Brussels Regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, together with the Rome Convention on the law applicable to contractual obligations.
The protection of press freedom and freedom of expression, afforded under the Swedish Constitution, must continue unchanged.
In both these areas, it is moreover doubtful whether there is a legal basis in the EC Treaty for such a regulation.
I voted in favour of this report. &#160;&#160; We voted in favour of the report on the mandate for the 2006 budget conciliation procedure before the Council’s first reading.
This requires, for example, reform of the common agricultural policy, with a reduction in the intervention prices in the agricultural markets, a reduction in direct aid and a gradual transition to national cofinancing.
A reduction in the amounts for the international fisheries agreements is also justified.
We also believe that cohesion policy should focus on the needs of the new Member States. &#160;&#160; We are voting in favour of the report on the mandate for the 2006 budget conciliation procedure.
We also believe that cohesion policy should be focused mainly on the needs of the new Member States. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I would like to comment on the Bozkurt report on the position of women in Turkey.
We eleven New Democracy MEPs supported the report, which our various and numerous amendments helped to shape.
It is even emphasised in this report that the report drafted by the European Commission, which will form the framework for negotiations between the European Commission and Turkey, must also include the situation of women and Turkey's obligations with regard to this part of the .
We therefore also support the report aimed at increasing the role of women in Turkey.
The rigid bureaucratic structure and the expensive agricultural policy must be fundamentally reformed before Turkey can become a member. &#160;&#160; – This report, or rather this indictment, should suffice to make it clear to all supporters of a Europe without frontiers, without culture and without a past, that Turkey is not a European country and that our western democratic model is not necessarily shared by a nation whose heritage has other sources.
This report is a litany of all the serious abuses of women’s rights committed by the Turkish State, be it different types of violence, the access of women to the employment market or their absence from the representative political institutions.
Finally, it is clear that Turkey has a system for the oppression of minorities, particularly the Kurdish communities.
The limited steps that the Turkish Government has resolved to take in this area and the practical difficulties in implementing them rule out the possibility that Turkey will meet the conditions – which, moreover, are inadequate – for accession to the European Union.
It rightly notes that Turkish women face economic hardship, a high rate of violence against them and a low rate of participation in politics - only 44 of Member's of parliament are women.
Many elements militate against the success of this approach.
In the first place, political and social involvement was, or is, fostered only in so far as it does not cause the relationship between the sexes to be questioned, or, to put it another way, only on condition that women remain subservient.
Another problematic aspect is the way in which the lack of social contact between the various ethnic or religious groups or social classes have resulted in entrenched divisions between some women and others.
This paragraph does not reflect the situation on the ground because, unfortunately, honour killings are still not expressly provided for in the new criminal code, while lifelong imprisonment may be reduced to 12 to 24 years (Article 29 of the criminal code).
Our objective is to encourage Turkey to develop its legislation and attitudes in accordance with the and to point out the omissions which exist today and the obligations created on the path towards democracy.
We support those parts of the report that emphasise the UN’s role in constructing a democratic and stable Iraq.
At the same time, the report is clearly aimed at strengthening the EU’s foreign and security policy mandate.
This is a report that seeks to expunge the ‘past’ (which is after all the brutal present); a report that calls for ‘more multilateral’ ‘conflict management’, by which it means the invasion; a report that equates the Iraqi people’s legitimate resistance with ‘terrorism’; a report that glosses over the torture carried out by the USA, calling it ‘violations of rights’; a report that hypocritically, calls on Iraq’s neighbours not to interfere in the country’s affairs, without a single word of condemnation of the USA’s invasion and occupation; a report that seeks to share that occupation and plunder with the USA, under the UN umbrella; a report that, in an appalling act of meddling, advocates implanting capitalism, its instruments and its policies.
In other words, for the dominant players in Parliament, any misunderstandings that may have taken place between the EU and the USA must be overcome.
The report clearly condemns all forms of terrorism and acts of violence.
By legitimising the war of aggression against Iraq, the resolution submitted to this House for a decision on ‘the EU’s increasing involvement in Iraq’ takes us in quite the wrong direction.
While the resolution calls for ‘support for the active work of the European Union with the Iraqi authorities in the fight against terrorism’, it does so without a single reference to what the causes of terrorism might be.
The important matter for debate now is what role the EU should have at this stage of Iraq’s political life.
In conclusion I believe that the EU must cooperate unreservedly with the legitimate Iraqi authorities, and must condemn unequivocally those who continue to destabilise the country by force.
Since the summit in Athens in 2004 and in its subsequent resolutions and decisions, the ΕU has already legalised the imperialist war against Iraq and recognised the occupying government, demonstrating that it and the USA have a single imperialist policy against the peoples.
There can be no solution for the benefit of the Iraqi people as long as there is foreign intervention and occupation by the US and European military.
We voted against the report, calling for the immediate withdrawal of the occupying forces as the precondition to the finding of a solution by the people of Iraq, who alone are responsible for determining their future.
I call on all other Member States to look urgently to emulating them and, in doing so, to raise enough funds to provide basic housing, healthcare, sanitation and education for all those living on less than one euro a day. &#160;&#160; We wholeheartedly support the fight against global poverty.
We believe that the EU can make a valuable contribution to this very important struggle by campaigning for radical reform of the EU’s protectionist trade policy, phasing out the EU’s destructive fisheries agreements with third countries and ceasing to pay export subsidies to European manufacturers of products such as, for example, milk and sugar.
However, the resolution contains extremely limited wordings when it comes to urgent reforms of this kind.
I particularly support the resolution's call on the UK to use its Presidency of the G8 to put poverty at the heart of the international as well as the European agenda, and for Member States to underline their commitment to the eradication of poverty by seizing the opportunities offered in the coming months.
Almost unanimously, the European Parliament denounced the security forces’ action and promptly appointed a committee of enquiry to determine whether any of the demonstrators had been killed by units trained by the EU.
On 30 June, in the Congolese capital, Kinshasa, people who had responded to opposition parties’ calls for peaceful demonstrations against the deferment of elections were attacked by soldiers and police.
The European Union, in the shape of ‘EUPOL Kinshasa’, is currently in Congo training police units, some of which are deployed in Kinshasa.
It is impossible to help those who do not allow their people to be helped, those who harm their people, those who foment the causes of poverty, not least corruption.
I therefore feel that EU-backed initiatives must attach the fight against poverty to the fight to create conditions for local development, by promoting democracy, freedom, human rights and a market economy.
There is an opportunity, as the G8 begins its deliberations today in Scotland, to make real progress on Africa and climate change.
The basis for any cohesion policy must be that aid needs to go to the very poorest countries.
The next six months will be a critical time for many of the western Balkan states.
Seven to eight thousand Muslim men and women were killed in cold blood in the worst act of genocide in Europe since 1945.
The ultimate responsibility lies with those who murdered, raped and tortured in cold blood.
As we all know, some have already been tried and found guilty of their part in these atrocities, others have been acquitted.
Ten years on from this terrible event, it is surely time for the authorities in the region – in Serbia and Montenegro, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in Croatia – to grasp the nettle and meet their international obligations to cooperate fully with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
I call upon all those in a position to make a difference to work together to remove this poison from the body politic, and to hand over all outstanding fugitives indicted for war crimes so that they may face justice in The Hague.
Croatia is on the cusp of opening accession negotiations to become a full member of the European Union, only ten years after the end of the war in 1995.
As the European Council has made clear on a number of occasions, it is Zagreb’s responsibility to remove the one outstanding obstacle to these negotiations: the continuing failure to cooperate fully with the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague.
As the European Union Presidency, we stand ready to open negotiations as soon as the Council is satisfied that this obligation has been met.
Clearly, the easiest way to overcome this obstacle would be to arrest and hand over the fugitive Ante Gotovina.
It would be a sign of our commitment to all the western Balkan countries and to the Thessaloniki commitments that they are all prospective candidates if we were able to open accession negotiations during our Presidency.
Whilst there is still work to do to implement fully the terms of the Ohrid Framework Agreement, later this year the Commission will publish its opinion on the Republic’s application to join the European Union submitted last year.
As with any other applicant, full compliance with the Copenhagen criteria is a precondition.
The timing of opening negotiations will depend on the authorities’ commitment to tackling these issues in deed as well as in word.
In Albania, it would appear that the recent elections passed in a generally peaceful manner.
While the count continues, we urge all political forces to respect the due electoral process and resist premature judgements on the outcome.
The time is fast approaching when we should address the difficult and sensitive issue of Kosovo’s final status.
Any outcome must work for all of Kosovo’s communities and reinforce regional stability.
But I would remind those who advocate independence that they must convince all communities and the world at large that independence can work and that the rights of Kosovo’s minorities as well as those who have yet to return to Kosovo after the violence of 1999 will be fully respected.
The current comprehensive review of standards is therefore a critical challenge.
The future is therefore in the hands of the Kosovo authorities in Pristina.
In the meantime, the European Union has an important role to play in supporting further progress, in particular in the area of economic development.
In April, the European Commission concluded a positive feasibility study recommending that the European Union open negotiations with Serbia and Montenegro on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
The Council of Ministers has accepted this recommendation and invited the Commission to prepare a negotiating mandate.
By 5 October, which marks the fifth anniversary of the democratic changes in Belgrade, or by the tenth anniversary of the Dayton-Paris Accords in November at the latest, we would like Serbia and Montenegro to have begun negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement.
But cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal must continue to improve and in this respect Mladic and Karadzic are key, all the more so in light of the anniversary of the Srebrenica massacre, which we will commemorate next week.
I would also like to underline the importance of dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina in the interests of all the people of Kosovo.
Only through participation in the democratic institutions of government can Kosovar Serbs ensure that their concerns are taken into account.
We have welcomed Belgrade’s decision to encourage the Kosovar Serbs to participate in the decentralisation working groups and look to Belgrade to carry this through.
Bosnia and Herzegovina have also recently made important progress towards the opening of negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement with the European Union.
This prize is within Bosnia and Herzegovina’s grasp but will remain out of reach until it has met the relevant conditions, which include agreeing on police restructuring, reforming public broadcasting and demonstrating full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
I have attempted today to summarise the present situation regarding our priorities for the Western Balkan countries over the next six months.
The European Union and other international partners are united in working with the region to maintain stability and create prosperity.
But as we move further down the road to closer integration between the western Balkan countries and the European Union, it is up to the countries concerned to make their cases irrefutable.
No-one should ever forget the horrors that unfolded during the following days and weeks.
The European Union, as the greatest peace and reconciliation project, can testify to that and serve as an example of what can be achieved, including in the Balkans.
This is unacceptable.
Mladić and Karadžić should have no place in the region.
The European Union has major responsibilities in ensuring peace and stability and enhancing democracy and prosperity on our continent.
As Mr Alexander stated regarding the EU’s policy in the Western Balkans on behalf of the Presidency, the inclusion of our Balkan neighbours in the European integration process has been a powerful incentive for enhancing stability, human rights, the rights of minorities and the rule of law in the region.
The prompt resolution of this issue is very important for the stability and progress of the whole region.
When we have fully examined the conduct of last Sunday’s elections in Albania, we can determine the future pace in the negotiations on a Stablisation and Association Agreement with Albania as well.
I was therefore satisfied that the June European Council very clearly confirmed the Union’s existing commitments on enlargement policy and on the European perspective of the Western Balkans.
Our enlargement policy has helped transform countries in regions that are still very fragile.
The building of a better future for the Western Balkans is indeed the best way to commemorate the victims of Srebrenica.
It serves the cause of peace, stability and prosperity in Europe, and our own vital interests.
Ten years on from Srebrenica, the Western governments have to ask themselves why they did not intervene in good time to prevent expulsions, murder and war.
Good though it is that high-ranking Serb politicians will be attending the commemorations at Srebrenica, they should also prevent certain Serbian politicians from naming in the same breath the Serb victims of the conflict in Bosnia-Herzegovina and the victims of Srebrenica, as if they were talking about one and the same thing.
Today is an opportunity to remind the Serbs in particular that reconciliation is possible only when one acknowledges one’s own guilt, and, as a German, I know what I am talking about.
It took a relatively short time after the war for our relations with the rest of the world to be restored, and that was because we admitted our responsibility for the heinous crimes committed in Germany’s name.
By no means are all Serbs guilty today, any more than all Germans were guilty then, and so those holding political power or religious authority, and the media, should do everything in their power to make reconciliation possible.
At the same time, though, the EU must neither stint in its efforts nor shirk its responsibility in helping the countries in the region to put their tragic past behind them and set their sights on a better future.
Acknowledgement and sorrow are needed, not in order to humiliate Serbia, in order that the Serbs as a whole might be condemned, and not in order to excuse the misdeeds and crimes of other peoples, but we do expect them.
We must be clear in our minds about the fact that contemplation of the past helps to build a better future.
As Mr Alexander and Commissioner Rehn have described to the House the various processes by which it is intended that these countries should be brought closer to the European Union, I would like to make it abundantly clear that the object must be to give them the chance to accede to it as Member States.
Many of their young people, though, look to Europe as their ideal, and it is for their sake that, as Mrs Pack has just said, we must hold out to them the prospect of one day, when the time is ripe and they have overcome their own problems, being in a position to become Member States of the European Union.
From our own experience, we know that post-war reconciliation is possible only when those who were formerly on opposite sides manage to agree on the history of the events, to ask for forgiveness for the misery inflicted and to bring to justice those responsible for the genocide and crimes against humanity.
Some of these have since been rectified, but unity of foreign and security policy is still not guaranteed, mainly because of a less than total willingness on the part of the EU governments.
The European Union and its Member States did manage, though, to stabilise and improve the situation in the Western Balkans both under their own steam and with NATO backing.
These efforts must be continued and the prospect of accession to the European Union must be kept open.
That will only be possible, though, when all authorities in the region fully cooperate with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and bring those responsible before this tribunal. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, some people of our generation find it difficult to talk about Srebrenica, because it is true that we have always asked ourselves what we would have done when, for example, the fascists came to power in Germany.
It was following the tragedy in Srebrenica that we understood the necessity for a European position, in other words a position that could not be either British, German or French, but that had to be a common position.
The Dayton Agreements provided stability, but nobody here is talking about the problems posed by the Dayton Agreements.
Those agreements, which were necessary at the time, contain an ethnic definition of the region, an ethnic definition that is included in the Bosnian constitution.
The tragedy in Srebrenica cannot be overcome unless we address the problem of the Dayton Agreements, unless we address the problem of the ethnic definition of the region, because it is that ethnic definition that is now preventing not only the Serbs but also the Croats and Bosniaks from admitting their crimes.
The Bosnian constitution is an ethnic constitution that will not allow Bosnia to join the European Union.
My group takes the view that the ultimate outcome would not have been much different had there been an EU centralised common foreign policy or a mandate that authorised Dutchbat to use more force and ensured support in the form of aerial bombardments.
If you want to guarantee the peaceful coexistence of the three nations in Bosnia, you have to look for solutions that are backed by all parties and not just by one or two that enjoy our favour.
Any attempt to create a centralised, united state can only result in a permanent battle for power between the different sections of the population.
No one group should be able to dominate another; that is the lesson we should have learned from Srebrenica and from the chaotic implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, today’s debate on the future of the Balkans is being held on the 10th anniversary of the crime which was committed in Srebrenica, and which was the worst in Europe since the end of the Second World War.
There can be absolutely no doubt that part of the reason for the wars and massacres in the Balkans was the lack of action by the European Union and NATO in this region.
I am delighted that things are changing in this respect, and that in 18&#160;months’ time Bulgaria and Romania will join the EU.
It is also to be welcomed that EU military and political forces are working to stabilise the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and indeed I had an opportunity to see this for myself in April of this year.
Yesterday I returned from an observation mission to the parliamentary elections in Albania, and it has to be said that these elections were a step in the right direction.
They were more democratic than previous elections in the country, and we should acknowledge this progress.
Question marks remain, of course, and there are still a great many questions left unanswered.
One thing is certain, however, namely that the EU still holds an attraction for these countries, despite the crisis in which it finds itself.
This is the only means whereby economic and political stability can be achieved in this region, and such stability will benefit the EU in the future.
I should like to conclude by saying that putting fires out in the Balkans costs more than preventing them in the first place. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I agree absolutely with my honourable friend, Mrs Doris Ρack, that Srebrenica should be a permanent living memory.
It marks and imposes the overcoming of ethnic standards and historical and cultural bondage through dialogue and assent.
The European Union failed to act as a reliable power for the production and export of security to its neighbours.
The Western Balkans continue to lag well behind in terms of economic development and regional integration.
The immediate challenge for relations between the European Union and the Western Balkans can be reduced to the following triptych: articulated political dialogue, cross-border infrastructure networks and the opening of the markets.
I wish the British Presidency good luck. &#160;&#160; Mr President, our primary concern today is, of course, to remember the most horrifying event from recent European history, namely the murder of thousands of men from the Muslim enclave of Srebrenica in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1995.
The story of Srebrenica has had an enormous impact in Europe and the rest of the world, but particularly in my country, the Netherlands, for it was Dutch wearers of the UN’s blue helmets who, at that time, appeared incapable of offering citizens, inhabitants and refugees the protection they needed.
Ten years on, this debacle is still a subject for debate in the Netherlands.
Remembering should, though, go beyond sympathy with the victims.
There is now, fortunately, peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but they have not fully come to terms with the past, and that is forming an obstacle to the functioning of the state and society, and so important decisions on such matters as the return of refugees and the arrest of those suspected of war crimes are not being taken.
I believe that coming to terms with the past is as important as working towards the future.
Yesterday evening in this Parliament a commemoration was held and next week ceremonies are planned in Srebrenica.
I understand the reason behind this, because Emma Bonino, when she was in Srebrenica in her role as European Commissioner, tried desperately to warn the Dutch Government, which did not listen to her, and we are well aware of the consequences.
Yes, Emma Bonino was there, as Reuters can bear witness.
At the time of the tragedy Emma Bonino got through twice to Radio Radicale, and also to the BBC, to say that thousands of people were missing.
Mr Morillon, we will be able to speak again about the issue of responsibility, and of all the initiatives, on another occasion.
It is quite intolerable that the pilot of the plane that fired two missiles at a train travelling over a bridge, the second one of which hit a pillar and destroyed both the bridge and the train, has not yet been brought before the Tribunal.
Paragraph&#160;4 of the motion for a resolution quite rightly says that all those guilty of war crimes must be caught and brought before the Tribunal, and I believe that you are quite serious about this.
We should be treating Croatia in the same way that you – wrongly – want to treat Turkey, which is to say that we should start negotiating with it, and it is only if full cooperation turns out to be lacking – and we have a committee to monitor whether that is the case – that we should abandon or suspend them.
What is needed is a Bosnia-Herzegovina made up of three people with equal rights and, above all, of free citizens.
In Serbia’s parliament, a new electoral law, introduced a few years ago, makes it impossible for any representative of a minority to have a seat.
What we need is uniform standards across the board, without which we will not be able to arrive at a credible policy. &#160;&#160; One of the major reasons and perhaps the key reason for the tragic war in the former Yugoslavia was the fact that the international community was neither consistent nor even-handed in its approach to solving the key question, that is, the right of people to self-determination.
At the moment there is peace in the region, but we are still some distance from the kind of progress that would bring about long-term prosperity.
It is right and proper that with this report and the action of the Commissioner we are sending a message to the region that it is welcome in the European Union, and it is also right that we are placing emphasis on economic progress, although it is as yet insufficient.
The European Union faces a task that in a certain way it faced before the tragic war took place, namely to have a consistent and even-handed view of the basic questions of status relating to the peoples and states in the region.
We must find a solution to the question of the independence of Kosovo and the rights of Serbs and Montenegrins to self-determination.
I would like to support the Commissioner in that the European Commission should be more active in this policy than it has been hitherto. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the resolution we shall vote on tomorrow is important, not only because it comes at a time when, ten years after the massacre, there are still people who do not believe that it happened, but also because neither the Serbian nor the Bosnian-Herzegovinan Parliament has been able to agree upon such a resolution.
The Serbian Members of the Bosnian Parliament could not accept either the wording of the resolution or the compromise proposals.
The world was shocked by the video images shown recently in The Hague of young men being executed.
That boy, however, called for his mum, as children do when they have had a horrible dream.’ If we are to have any chance at all of moving on after the Balkan wars, we must primarily ensure that everyone who is guilty of crimes is brought to justice: not only those who are accused before the Hague Tribunal but also those who are still free and who should be prosecuted before the national courts as soon as possible.
Ten years later, Bosnia is still deeply divided.
Ten years later, this country has five presidents and two prime ministers and is being kept alive artificially.
The international community and the European Union must take initiatives to review the Dayton agreement in order to bring about a functional, federal, democratic and multi-ethnic state.
The European Union has a political and strategic responsibility to defend and strengthen the European prospects and the integration of the countries of the Balkans into the European institutions.
We need to firmly oppose those who contest enlargement today with a strategy of political and social democratisation, peace, security and stability through the progress of the Balkans towards Europe.
I would have been delighted if any European city had been successful in Singapore today, but I am particularly delighted that London has secured this.
I would like to thank all the Members of the European Parliament and the European Commission for their contributions to what has proved to be an insightful and wise debate this afternoon.
It is clear that there is a real commitment by all of you to support the European aspirations of the Western Balkan countries.
We are conscious of the many challenges ahead, but we are committed to working together to overcome them.
I recognise the need for a wider recognition of responsibility and this was a subject that I discussed only last week with the Reis-ul-Ulema, the Grand Mufti of Bosnia, who has been leading efforts to achieve exactly this reconciliation within and between communities in the regions.
That is certainly true but, as Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck reflected, it is necessary for all the countries in the region to cooperate fully with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
Mr Cohn-Bendit spoke of the Dayton Accords and urged the international community to now take the initiative.
The Serbia-Montenegro state union is a loose federal arrangement, created in 2003 largely through the initiative of Javier Solana.
However, the European Union recognises the terms of the Constitutional Charter, which allows for a referendum to be held after three years and emphasises the need for any dissolution to be constitutional, consensual, negotiated and transparent.
The Commission will publish its opinion on Macedonia, Lord Ashdown’s mandate in Bosnia will come to an end and a positive assessment of standards implementation in Kosovo could lead to a process to determine Kosovo’s final status, a process in which the European Union will have a key role to play.
The Presidency will continue to drive forward the European Union’s Stabilisation and Association process, designed to build stability and prosperity in the Western Balkans and guide these countries towards eventual European Union membership.
The progress of each country within the stabilisation and association process will be judged against established political criteria.
Full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal, as I have already mentioned, remains a key political requirement.
The European Union has made it clear that it stands ready to open accession negotiations as soon as there is full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
We hope this will happen during the UK Presidency, but it is ultimately up to Croatia to take the necessary steps to ensure full cooperation.
The easiest way for Croatia to address doubts about Croatia’s commitment to ICTY is to cooperate in locating and detaining Ante Gotovina.
Mr Beglitis raised the question of how European Union help to Bosnia-Herzegovina in implementing the reforms necessary for European Union integration can be taken forward.
The European Union Police Mission aims to help the Bosnian police force reach European standards.
The EU CARDS Programme also supports reforms for European Union integration.
The European Union Special Representative and High Representative, Lord Paddy Ashdown, plays a coordinating role between the different European Union presences and has played a leading role in encouraging the Bosnian authorities to take the reform agenda forward.
In addition to the terrible anniversary of the Srebrenica massacre, which has been mentioned by so many speakers today and which we will commemorate next week, this year will also mark the tenth anniversary of the Dayton Accords, as was also mentioned in passing by at least a couple of speakers, and the end to the conflict in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
I believe that the next six months therefore offer an historic opportunity for these countries to demonstrate their wholehearted commitment to European values, to tolerance and the rule of law, to good neighbourly relations and to the difficult but very serious process of reconciliation, which a number of speakers have talked about today.
In this respect, I echo the sentiments expressed by Commissioner Rehn.
Handing over the last remaining indictees for trial in The Hague, notably Karadzic, Mladic and Gotovina, is not just an obscure European Union condition, but is required under several United Nations Security Council resolutions.
It will contribute to the normalisation of relations between those three countries.
Thankfully armed conflict is and must remain a thing of the past although, as Mrs Ibrisagic reminded us, recent discoveries of explosives have shown that there are still those minded to advance their cause by violence.
The European Union has recognised the region’s aspirations to join the European family once conditions have been met, but corruption and organised crime are still far too prevalent and economic growth is lacklustre.
I thank the honourable Members for a dignified and substantive debate that fully respects our duty to remember and draw conclusions for the present and the future.
I also note wide support for the continuation of our prudently managed accession process, combining the historic mission of European integration for peace, democracy and progress with consideration for our citizens’ legitimate concerns about the absorption capacity of the Union.
The future of the Western Balkans is clearly in the European Union.
It is fair to say that the European perspective is the glue that keeps the Western Balkans on a peaceful and stable track.
Therefore it is important that Bosnia and Herzegovina can itself reflect on the constitutional changes that can serve the country and its people better than the current construct.
It is up to the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina and their representatives to play a key role in this exercise.
In my view, it would not be useful or appropriate for the international community to force yet another blueprint upon its citizens.
We need consensus and a consensus-building political process in Bosnia and Herzegovina to achieve that objective.
I can assure you that the Commission will play an active role in the region in order to sustain hopes for its future in Europe.
I very much look forward to working together with the European Parliament and the Presidency to achieve that objective. &#160;&#160; &#160;I have received six motions for resolutions(1) tabled pursuant to Rule&#160;103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The European Union has many interests at stake in China and East Asia more widely, clearly a highly important region in the 21st century.
The eighth European-China Summit in September in Bejing will be an opportunity to celebrate 30 years of official relations between the European Union and China and to look forward to the next 30 years.
This will be an opportunity for the European Union and China to work together as global partners on global challenges.
We look forward to this chance for the European Union and China to combine their efforts in order to address the challenges of climate change and energy security through dialogue and practical cooperation.
Of course there are differences between us, but it is a sign of the maturity of the relationship that we can discuss these constructively, for example, through the EU-China human rights dialogue.
Human rights are of course a fundamental part of European Union foreign policy.
But much more is needed.
The situation in Tibet and Xinjiang remain a concern.
The last 30 years have seen tremendous change in Taiwan too.
GDP per capita in real terms is considered to be on a par with Japan and Hong Kong.
The European Union’s Member States have no diplomatic relations with Taiwan.
Taiwan and the European Union also enjoy solid relations in other non-political areas, such as science, education, culture and various technical fields.
The European Union reacted by reaffirming its adherence to its one-China policy and its opposition to any use of force to resolve this issue.
Speaking for the United Kingdom for a moment, we are keen to use the United Kingdom’s Presidency of the European Union to take forward work in this area.
The European Union should aim to engage more actively in the political management of the regional security challenges.
The EU is now China’s most important trading partner, and China is the EU’s second most important trading partner, after the United States.
In 2003, China became the world’s fourth largest trader, and its foreign trade continues to grow by 37%, a growth rate unrivalled by any major trading nation.
The business environment in China is still a difficult one for the foreign businesses that operate there.
The WTO Ministerial in Hong Kong this year provides an opportunity for the European Union and China to work together once again to help achieve an ambitious and balanced outcome.
With this tremendous economic growth in China has come change in other areas too.
This first policy paper attempted to define a long-term strategy to address China’s swift economic and indeed political development.
In 1996, the first Asia-Europe meeting was held and two years later the first EU-China Summit took place.
Against this backdrop of rapid change, the main legal framework for EU-China relations, the Bilateral Trade and Economic Co-Operation Agreement of 1985 is looking decidedly out of date.
It is a requirement of economic growth and development.
The European Union recognises its obligation to reduce its own emissions while at the same time assisting countries such as China to meet their growing energy needs in a sustainable manner.
The European Union and China have significant and internationally respected scientific and technological expertise.
There is therefore excellent scope for the European Union and China to significantly strengthen collaboration in this important field.
The European Union and China do, of course, have differences.
The agreement reached at the conclusion of the recent EU-China textile negotiations shows what can happen when we sit down to discuss those differences amicably and seek win-win solutions.
China has acted, as the Commissioner for Trade, Mr Mandelson, said and I quote ‘as a responsible and valued partner’.
I am very happy about this debate, because the situation in Asia and also in East Asia is indeed a major strategic issue.
The Far Eastern countries invest in their future and Asia will, no doubt, be the continent at the centre of the world stage in the 21st century.
Security in the Far East is a topic, therefore, of direct concern to European interests.
Moreover, stability in the Far East directly impacts not only on the prosperity and the well-being of our citizens but also of the citizens of this continent.
Japan, for its part, is also a major source of investment in Europe, not least in some of the new Member States.
In short, instability in the most dynamic region in the world would have serious consequences that would be deeply felt in Europe.
Firstly, how to respond to the rise of China.
Secondly, ensuring stability on the Korean peninsula and, thirdly, a peaceful resolution of tensions between China and Taiwan.
By contrast, the degree of economic integration in East Asia is also very impressive.
However, this alone will not be sufficient to make East Asia more stable or more peaceful, particularly as the DPRK is still outside the emerging economic cooperation.
Moreover, unlike in Europe in the later half of the 1980s, economic ties have not resulted in improved political relations.
On the contrary, the economic rise of China and its assertive foreign policy have fanned concerns in some neighbouring countries that a more prosperous China could use its economic gains to pursue its national interests more forcefully and dominate the region both politically and economically.
The new leadership, in line with the views of the younger generation often appears to see a forceful policy vis-à-vis North Korea as more of a threat to peace than North Korea’s nuclear programme.
In Japan, a nationalistic renaissance can be observed, not founded on a young generation movement, but on an elite’s wish to change a so-called ‘self-denigrating attitude’ in Japan.
This tendency in all three countries to favour nationalistic policies does not bode well for solving the concrete political problems that will become more urgent in the years to come.
For instance, the meeting in Jakarta on 23 April between Japan’s Prime Minister Koizumi and China’s President – at which I participated – was held specifically to de-escalate the tension and that demonstrates that both sides understand that they would stand to lose economically from rising tensions.
It is unfortunate, therefore, that the follow-up steps complicated rather than calmed down the situation when Vice Prime Minister Wu Yi abruptly cancelled a scheduled meeting with Prime Minister Koizumi.
We are taking a number of concrete steps to address the various issues at hand in order to clearly voice Europe’s views for a way forward and to express our concerns about the situation.
Indeed, at the next summit with China, which will be held in September, we will try to come up with the idea of a more comprehensive and more ambitious framework agreement, because the old one is no longer fulfilling our most ambitious goals.
In that context, we have agreed to intensify our political dialogue and we have said that energy issues in particular should be very high on our agenda, together with Japan.
We want to do this, not least with a view to responding to Japan’s concern over a possible future lifting of the EU’s arms embargo on China.
As a first follow-up, we held a ministerial Troika with Japan on 6 May in the margin of the ASEM meeting.
In our political dialogue with China, we are also addressing the issue of Sino-Japanese tensions and calling for moderation and reconciliation.
On the arms embargo, the European Council Conclusions of December 2005 clearly stipulate that there should not be any change in the quantity or quality of arms exports to China.
Therefore, any possible future decision on lifting the embargo should not alter the security situation in East Asia.
Moreover, the European Union has started a strategic dialogue with the United States on East Asia to address the security concerns of our partners, and information missions have been carried out to the US, Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand to explain our position.
Let me say two more things before the debate and then I will answer your questions.
I would remind you that the European Union – and the Commission also – is a board member of KEDO.
We have financially and otherwise supported this – currently suspended – activity with a view to finding a peaceful resolution of the nuclear issue.
I hear that a parliamentary delegation is going to North Korea.
I think we all agree that the tensions in the Far East have to be taken seriously, whether we are talking about the tension between Japan and China or that between North Korea and Japan.
After all, we all agree – and I assume that the President-in-Office does too – that we want to promote democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and that we regard our work to these ends as a long-term basis for sound economic relationships.
Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner was right to mention the success of the May summit held between Japan and the EU in Luxembourg, but I sometimes get the feeling that members of the Council and the Commission visit Peking three times as often as they visit Tokyo.
It would be no bad thing either for them to visit Taipei; after all, both Taiwan and Japan are countries with multi-party democracies, in which human rights are observed and the rule of law prevails.
We must do everything in our power to get the countries of Asia to where we are now: the state, sixty years after the end of the Second World War, of having been reconciled with one another.
This compromise resolution is one that we support, because we believe that it is important that the European Parliament speak with one voice.
The Far East is an increasingly important region for trade and aid with increasing globalisation of both economics and politics.
Security issues affect us all: now when North-East Asia sneezes, we all threaten to catch a cold.
We rightly still have concerns about China’s human rights record, but, as the Council said, things are moving in the right direction.
For us, it is the lack of a full legal base for the code of conduct on arms that is as much a problem for the lifting of the embargo as the situation in China.
Second, with respect to North Korea, as you have said, Commissioner, a delegation is leaving tomorrow, of which I am part, under the leadership of Ursula Stenzel.
This will be the first meeting between a standing delegation of the European Parliament and the Supreme People’s Assembly of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
This Parliament has made its position clear in the past and will reiterate it in the vote tomorrow.
Lastly, no country is immune from blame for the current tensions in this region: the China-Taiwan, China-Japan, Japan-South Korea issues and that of the Korean peninsula itself.
The countries might well learn from the historical Franco-German and German-Polish reconciliations here in Europe.
The examples show that economic relations are developing despite the embargo, so it clearly has no influence whatsoever on economic relations, but it needs to serve as a pointer as regards political relations.
Personally, I trust the position of the British Presidency; in my experience, the stance of the United Kingdom is clear and unambiguous regarding this issue and I commend it for this.
The other important issue: Taiwan has sought observer status in the World Health Organisation since 1997.
And unfortunately, the Member States have participated in turning down its application.
It is my opinion, however, that Taiwan’s 23 million inhabitants have a right to the security and protection that the World Health Organisation has to offer, but the reverse is also true: we also need the knowledge and experience and – I have to say, the financial resources – that Taiwan has to offer.
Taiwan already participates in numerous areas of international cooperation.
For example, it is a member of the World Trade Organisation; it participates in economic cooperation within APEC and is a member of other international organisations.
At the same time, organisations such as the Holy See, the Knights of Malta, the Red Cross, the Red Crescent, and even the Inter-Parliamentary Union have observer status in the World Health Organisation.
That is why it is so important for the European Union to ensure that its policy on China contributes to improving social, environmental and human rights standards, and that it does not jeopardise regional stability and security.
In this context, I agree that some of the recent actions of the Chinese authorities are worrying, such as the adoption of the anti-secession law in relation to Taiwan.
We must also remember that the European Union will only be able to accept an agreement between China and Taiwan if it is the result of a peaceful dialogue between the parties and, in particular, if it respects the democratic progress achieved by Taiwan.
The situation now is that, led by the heirs to this revolutionary regime, China is still a country with a future, but our political line has changed completely.
Taiwan has developed from a military dictatorship into a democracy that can increasingly be compared with Europe and Japan.
In our search for a solution to a 56-year long division of what is internationally recognised as Chinese territory, we will need to take these new developments into account.
The Council and Commission have the urgent task of promoting a more businesslike relationship between Beijing and Taipei.
One thing is clear, the Council’s positively premature intention to lift the arms embargo against the People’s Republic has, together with the recent Chinese anti-secession law, enormously increased tension in the region.
I hope that the Council, under the British Presidency, will abandon this unsafe approach.
I urge you to support Taiwanese observer status in the World Health Organisation and give 23&#160;million free Taiwanese a vote and a face in international fora.
That is how the European Union can help establish the desperately needed inter-Chinese dialogue. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, Mr&#160;Alexander, the proclamation by the People’s Republic of China of an ‘anti-secession law’ is a key moment for security in the Far East.
By enacting a bill that blatantly violates international law, the People’s Republic of China has made it clear to the rest of the world that the Peking regime is not becoming more moderate as had been hoped, even though the country has allowed market forces to operate in parts of its economy and the West has become more open to contacts with China.
China knows that the Taiwanese will never voluntarily agree to unification, and so it is making preparations for an armed attack on this democratic and prosperous country.
While this provocation was going on, the President of the Member State that does the most trade with China, or in other words France, announced that there was no longer any point to the embargo on arms exports to China, and that this embargo was a manifestation of hostility.
It needs to keep the embargo in place, and to step up its policy of active support for Taiwan’s position in the international arena, by acting in close cooperation with the United States.
Our aim up until now has been to maintain the status quo, but the latter has been undermined unilaterally by the People’s Republic of China.
If I may, I should like to make one final comment which occurred to me while listening to the debate, and which should not be taken too seriously.
If there were an EU-wide ban on praise for totalitarian systems, I do not believe that the Members of this House from post-Communist countries would manage a single day out of prison, and there would be 50&#160;fewer Members of this Parliament. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we know that China, because of its influence over North Korea, holds the keys to peace in that region of the world.
However, the increasingly aggressive attitude of Communist China towards Taiwan constitutes a threat to this peace that is all the more serious because the leaders in Beijing have nuclear weapons.
Ever since 1949, those leaders have never given up hope of annexing Taiwan, which has, thanks to the courage of its inhabitants, become one of the most dynamic economies in the Pacific and a model of democracy in a region where there are still many totalitarian regimes.
Only a firm, decisive attitude will bring the authorities in Beijing to make compromises and, in particular, to recognise the right of the Taiwanese to self-determination.
Were our governments to adopt a different policy, not only would they be betraying the values of freedom and democracy that they are always so proud of affirming, but they would also be seriously compromising the stability of the Far East. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I welcome the resolution on security in the Far East, and particularly the broad consensus on the part of all groups that underpins it.
It is also in our interest that North Korea should emerge from its isolation and thus become able to receive from the EU the humanitarian aid that it needs.
Our primary aspiration is that the People’s Republic of China should exert considerable influence on North Korea’s attitude towards naming a date for the resumption of the six-party talks, which will make a political solution possible.
It is towards this end that we, Europe’s parliamentarians, offer our good offices. &#160;&#160; In the interests of ensuring that security is maintained and development continues in the Far East, I would like to call upon the governments of countries where disputes over territorial issues still persist to resolve these as soon as possible by means of bilateral negotiations.
I consider it important to maintain the in the region, and I support the peaceful resolution of the issue by means of dialogue between the parties, bearing in mind the ‘one China’ principle.
I would like to make it clear that I still believe the multilateral, six-party talks provide the primary framework for resolving the issue, and that an agreement in principle reached on this basis is needed to ensure a Korean peninsula free from nuclear weapons.
These goals should be the strategic priority and a moral necessity for the democratic Europe, geared towards the reinforcement of civil society and democratic institutions in the world’s third countries.
These aspects are what should determine our assessment of the relations between the European Union, China and Taiwan, as well as of security in the Far East.
It is no secret that from an arms trade point of view, the embargo on China is practically inoperative.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is an occasion for the European Parliament again to put on record that some individuals holding office in Europe and representatives of Member States are acting in accordance with double standards when pursuing narrow economic interests.
Nor, in fact, are they the only political prisoners, for the so-called People’s Republic is still a Communist one-party state without any freedom of expression of opinion, freedom of the press or freedom of religion.
He has already spent more than 20 years of his life in prison.
Not only does the People’s Republic of China systematically and continually violate human rights, but it also forms a threat to regional stability and, by extension, to peace full stop.
On the one hand, it stresses that the human rights situation in China should improve, while on the other, it seeks to lift the arms embargo, thereby sending a message to the Chinese regime that it does not have to be too careful about human rights.
Taiwan is given credit, and rightly, for its economic success and for real democracy, but it is not being spelled out to the People’s Republic that it is unacceptable to challenge Taiwan’s integrity.
Under such circumstances, a strategic partnership with China should not be an end in itself, any more than the so-called One China Policy should remain an end in itself.
At the same time, however, they have also brought to light differences at political level which slowly but surely are leading both sides to an unavoidable and harmonious symbiosis, because the People's Republic of China needs the European Union and the European Union needs China.
In addition, I do not believe that the presence of China and India in the area of international trade represents a threat, as recently maintained here, in his first appearance, by the President-in-Office of the Council, Tony Blair.
On the contrary, one would maintain that it is a very good opportunity for between the peoples in all sectors of cooperation and friendly rivalry, a unique opportunity, during which at all levels will provide solutions even to outstanding issues such as those between China and Taiwan, which is seeking secession, the lifting of the weapons embargo against China by the European Union and the United States and, finally, the abolition of the illegal and indiscriminate export of goods, especially in the pharmaceutical, electronics and textile and clothing sectors.
The signature of the ‘open skies’ cooperation agreement increasing flights between the European Union and Beijing by the Vice-President of the European Commission, Jacques Barrot, is an example of goodwill.
To close, I wish London the same good luck for 2012 as Athens had with the 2004 Olympic Games, despite any doubts which London had at the time.
Good wishes also because Great Britain has the capacity, in conjunction with Beijing in 2008, to strengthen relations still further. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, critics of Europe often claim that it is too self-absorbed, and that it takes a great deal of notice of what is going on in neighbouring countries while ignoring problems in other parts of the world, such as Eastern Asia.
I believe that today’s debate will demonstrate exactly the opposite, namely that we are very much aware of the challenges emerging from Eastern Asia, of the growing importance of China and the role of Japan, North Korea and South Korea, and of course of the security problems that are rife in Eastern Asia.
As far as China is concerned, I agree entirely with the current UK Presidency that global dialogue needs to be strengthened, that Europe and China are global partners, and that they must tackle global challenges such as security, energy security and climate change together.
I too believe that this dialogue and partnership will be enshrined in the framework agreement, and that it will actually encourage dialogue on human rights rather than ruling it out.
Our policy is based on the ‘one China’ principle, but this principle has deprived the people of Taiwan of another fundamental principle: that of self-determination.
My next comment is about the compatibility of China and Taiwan.
I also thank the Commissioner for her generous welcome in this Parliament today.
Let me respond first to some of the main points raised during the last hour.
Mr Jarzembowski spoke of the importance of the recent EU-Japan meeting.
He spoke wisely of the need for continued understanding and reconciliation within the region.
Mr Ford recognised the interdependence that is surely one of the hallmarks of our globalising world.
As Members are aware, a review of the European Union arms embargo was, of course, announced by the European Council in December 2003 and is presently ongoing.
In June, the European Council also recalled its conclusions of 16 and 17 December 2004 and invited the Council to continue its work on that basis.
The Council also welcomed the launch of a strategic dialogue on Asia with the United States and Japan.
In its conclusions in December 2004, the Council recalled the importance of the criteria of the code of conduct, which have been referred to by a number of Members today, including the provisions regarding human rights, stability and security in the region and the national security of friendly and allied countries.
Mr Szent-Iványi also raised the issue of the European Union’s position on Taiwan’s participation in the World Health Organisation.
The European Union made its position public on Taiwanese participation at the 2004 World Health Assembly.
Ireland issued an EU Presidency statement that strongly supported the principle enshrined in the WHO Constitution that the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health is one of the fundamental rights of every human being.
It also expressed hopes that all parties will show flexibility in finding mechanisms to allow Taiwanese medical and public health officials to participate in these activities.
At this year’s World Health Assembly, the issue did not come up for vote in the General Committee, but we understand that the WHO secretariat and China recently signed a memorandum of understanding on WHO technical exchanges with Taiwan.
Mr Meijer offered his own distinctive views on Chiang Kai-Shek and on his successors in Taiwan.
Mr Szymański and Mrs Dobolyi spoke of the anti-secession law recently passed by China.
So let me say a further word on China-Taiwan relations and cross-strait tension.
The European Union and the Council attach great importance to peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait, which is important for the whole region and indeed beyond.
The Taiwan question should be settled peacefully, as I said, through peaceful negotiations.
We hope that both sides can find a mutually acceptable basis for a resumption of peaceful dialogue and avoid unilateral measures, which might heighten tensions.
In February, a statement was issued welcoming the agreement to cross-strait direct charter transfer flights over the Lunar New Year.
The second statement issued in March by the Luxembourg Presidency followed China’s adoption of its anti-secession law, which has caused so much commentary in the course of our debate this afternoon.
That statement voiced concerns over the legislation’s reference to the use of non-peaceful means.
It asked all parties to avoid any unilateral action that might rekindle tensions and also encouraged both sides to develop initiatives that contribute to dialogue and to mutual understanding.
In his meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Li on 17 March, almost immediately after the passage of the law, the High Representative, Javier Solana, expressed the European Union’s concerns about some elements of the anti-secession law.
Mrs Stenzel told us of her mission departing for the Korean peninsula tomorrow and this was also referred to by Mr Mavrommatis.
Mr Kristovskis and Mr Claeys appropriately raised the issue of human rights in China.
I can assure both Members that the European Union raises a lot of human rights concerns with the Chinese Government at the biannual European Union-China human rights dialogue, which is a regular high-level exchange.
The Chinese presently have a target to reach per capita income comparable to that of today’s developed countries by about 2050.
The significant development of economic strength was really the opening framework with which I approached this debate.
That was echoed by the words of the Commissioner immediately following my contribution.
Many of the problems we face today, such as climate change, which will clearly be one of the significant items being discussed in Gleneagles over the days to come, can only be solved through action by all.
The Council has a close interest in supporting China’s successful transition to a stable, prosperous and open country that fully embraces free market principles and the rule of law.
It will depend on the Member States, but that is our aim.
On the contrary, human rights feature in all our political dialogues and great significance is attached to them.
I recently met with Foreign Minister Li and I was also involved in a troika in China.
If needed, we are always standing ready.
We must accept a China that will rise with or without us.
We need to influence the reform process in all areas of society and the economy.
We try to do that in our bilateral talks, in our troika talks, within the framework of the different international organisations, or at the United Nations. &#160;&#160; &#160;I have received five motions for resolutions¹(1) to wind up the debate, tabled pursuant to Rule&#160;103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on 7&#160;July&#160;2005. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Security in the Far East is of crucial importance, particularly for those people who suffer from the lack of security in the region on a daily basis.
I ask the House to imagine how it must feel to be a citizen of North Korea, condemned to endure the whims of Communist rulers; how it must feel to live in Taiwan, and to go about one’s daily life in the face of anti-secession efforts by the People’s Republic of China; or how it must feel to be a Tibetan, and to have become part of a minority in one’s own country.
The People’s Republic of China may be an economic tiger, but in democratic terms it is unfortunately anything but.
The principle of territorial integrity would be easier to apply if the country were a democratic state under the rule of law.
Until the People’s Republic of China improves its human rights record, however, any pressure brought to bear by it on Taiwan will be unacceptable.
Europe has succeeded in overcoming the political effects of the Cold War, whereas Asia has not managed to overcome the political, economic and social effects of a real war, namely the Korean War.
Support for international mine action is one of the most important political priorities of the European Union and I am genuinely grateful for the efforts of the European Parliament in helping to ensure that this issue has not dropped down the international agenda.
The European Union took an active role during the First Review Conference of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on their Destruction in November 2004, which was referred to as the 2004 Nairobi Summit on a Mine-Free World.
The European Union considers that the First Review Conference of the Convention was an important milestone to take stock of what has been achieved up to now in implementing the Convention and identifying what needs to be done to renew the commitment of States Parties in eradicating the inhumane effects of anti-personnel mines.
There is a risk that we may lose sight of the importance of this issue when debating safely today in the heart of Europe or, for that matter, in New York or Geneva.
I would therefore like to set the scene for this afternoon’s debate with a reminder of the extent and the severity of the problem and why it is important that the European Union and the European Parliament continue to play such a leading role.
These deaths and injuries take place in more than 80 countries around the world, from Angola to Zimbabwe and even closer to home in the Balkans.
Astonishingly, this equates to more than 40 casualties per day, a figure which I am sure everyone here today will agree is simply unacceptable.
The vast majority of these casualties occur in countries no longer in the grip of conflict.
It is a horrible truth that millions of anti-personnel mines still exist and, in some parts of the world, are still being laid, affecting the poorest people in the poorest countries, the people least able to deal with the threat and the people most in need of our help and support.
Anti-personnel landmines have been designed to maim rather than kill their victims.
The Ottawa Convention or ‘Mine Ban Treaty’ prohibiting anti-personnel landmines has enjoyed wide international support and there are now 152 signatories.
Over 37 million stockpiled anti-personnel mines have now been destroyed.
But that does not mean we should relent on our objective for a complete universalisation of the Ottawa Treaty and we must work towards an agreement to ensure that the comprehensive action plan at the Nairobi Review Conference is implemented fully.
Standing here today before you, I am particularly proud and grateful for the role that the European Union has played in the fight against anti-personnel landmines.
The European Union has helped maintain political cooperation as well as practical assistance.
I fully support the European Union’s goal to ‘drastically reduce the lingering threat and impact of landmines in the context of increased local security and regional confidence’.
The European Union’s 2005-2007 mine action strategy operates on the basis of three thematic objectives: to reduce the anti-personnel landmine threat, to alleviate mine-victim suffering and aid socio-economic reintegration and to enhance local and regional impacts of effective mine action capacity.
In pursuit of our aims, we have demonstrated both political and financial commitment to making them a reality.
The European Union has sought to promote all efforts likely to contribute to the goal of the total elimination of anti-personnel landmines, including through joint action and diplomatic démarches, dialogue with third-party countries, as well as activity in international fora.
The very presence of mines exacerbates poverty by preventing the productive use of land and infrastructure, while the cost of treating injured survivors of landmine accidents drains the poorest nations of already scarce resources.
Future mine action will depend strongly on incorporating mine action into countries’ development plans.
During the war my father trod on a land-mine and had a leg amputated, so you can imagine that in a way that marked my whole childhood.
Support for international mine action therefore continues to be amongst the most important political priorities of the European Union.
Our efforts to combat landmines are an integral part of our foreign humanitarian and development policy.
Its overarching objective is a zero-victim target.
What we want is a world where no-one will be injured or killed by landmines.
This money is well spent, not just on marking, clearing and destroying mines, but on alleviating the suffering of the victims, socio-economic reintegration and the enhancement of local and regional capacity.
To give you just one specific figure, in Afghanistan we shall have spent approximately EUR 40 million between 2001 and 2006, in order to make the country safe for the civilian population.
I would like to stress that since the signature of the Mine Ban Treaty overall financial support from the Community and the Member States reached a record figure of over EUR 1 billion, almost half the global budget for land- mines.
This proves that here too the European Union is a global actor that can make a difference and it also proves that the European Parliament and the Commission, together with the Council, are a strong team in foreign affairs.
I particularly welcome the British Minister of State for Europe, Mr Douglas Alexander.
It is estimated that there are still about 15&#160;000 mine victims every year and millions of mines are still stockpiled.
The fact is the armed forces of afflicted countries are not involved enough in mine clearance.
It is most important that the landmine problem is, to all intents, overcome by 2010, in just five years’ time, and does not become one of those problems that never go away.
This requires accelerated commitment of political will and of resources by the international community and the affected countries.
It is also important that we remain sharply focused, taking account of the requirements of our own professional and responsible armed forces.
This week attention is focused on Africa at the G8 Summit in Gleneagles and here in the European institutions.
Let us remember that many African countries are amongst the most afflicted by landmines and their presence is a major barrier to the rapid development that needs to take place across the continent if the people of Africa are to escape from poverty.
Yet statistics still show that 20&#160;000 people a year are victims of mines or abandoned ammunition, of whom 8&#160;000 to 10&#160;000 are children, who are killed or mutilated, usually by anti-personnel mines.
These immoral weapons continue to have a social, economic, environmental and humanitarian impact on the population, and thus represent an intolerable threat to the human safety of whole communities.
Quite apart from the international obligations to which the States Parties are subject, the international community has a duty to eliminate once and for all not only anti-personnel mines but any mines or devices that may kill or mutilate indiscriminately.
Countries such as my own which have placed mines in other countries in wars of a colonial nature, or otherwise, now have a special responsibility to help remove those mines and to support victim’s rehabilitation and reintegration into society.
Europe in particular must continue to play a leading role in this field and must extend that role to other aspects of disarmament.
We owe that to the thousands of communities whose development has been undermined by these and other weapons that kill and mutilate at random.
We owe it to them in the name of human rights, of human safety, of peace, of the very values on which the EU is based, and this is reflected in the resolution that we have tabled. &#160;&#160; Although a large number of countries have prohibited the use, storage, manufacture and distribution of anti-personnel mines and have committed themselves to their elimination by ratifying the convention, anti-personnel mines and other forms of land-mines continue to exist.
The world has still not rid itself of the menace of this, the most inhumane of the weapons that pollute our planet.
I understand the situation and the historical circumstances in the three Member States of the European Union that have still not ratified the convention, but now is the time for some changes.
Other means should be used to prevent the danger of military conflicts in Europe.
There are more victims of mines than we might think, or that we are aware of.
It is right and proper that in our resolution we also talk of money for the rehabilitation and reintegration of victims.
Bringing such people back into society is a long-term and extremely demanding process if a complete and genuine rehabilitation is to be secured.
However, any process of mine-clearing is much more valuable than dealing with the consequences of an explosion or rehabilitating the victims.
In Southeast Europe, too, less than one thousand kilometres from Strasbourg, we are still registering new victims of mines, so we must continue the process of clearing mines until the last mine in Europe has been removed.
More than 60 civilians died.
I am sorry that the PPE-DE Group cannot join us on this.
The horrific incident in Nepal illustrates the urgent need to allow specialist NGOs to involve non-state actors as well in cleaning mines from areas under their control.
The EU and Member States should work hard to make this fine example of corporate social responsibility legally binding throughout Europe.
Indeed we have heard the moving personal testimony of the Commissioner and seen her personal commitment both to this issue and to this agenda.
As we have heard, there is almost universal agreement on the need to tackle the terrible problems caused by anti-personnel mines.
Let me respond to some of the main points that have been raised in the course of our debate.
All of us, with a sincere regard for the condition of that continent, recognise what a significant contribution the removal of mines can make to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals there.
I agree with the initial point she made, that Europe has a leading role to play in this regard.
This strategy represents a common goal that all 25 Member States share.
On the issue of universalising the Convention, as part of the action plan agreed by the First Review Conference of the Ottawa Convention last December, the European Union is committed to promoting the universalisation of the Treaty and the international community is making progress: 152 countries have now signed the Convention and 144 have ratified it, so the Ottawa Treaty is now very much the international norm, although that does not mean that we should ease up on our efforts to universalise it.
I am grateful for the contributions that I have heard to the debate this afternoon.
I can assure you that the UK Presidency will continue to take action on this important subject. &#160;&#160; &#160;I have received six motions for resolutions¹(1) to wind up the debate, tabled pursuant to Rule&#160;103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on 7&#160;July&#160;2005. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0247/2005).
I would have been delighted if any European city had secured those games, but I was particularly delighted that London has been successful today in Singapore.
I reiterate that this is not an appropriate matter for the Presidency to deal with; it is better taken forward by bilateral discussions between the Greek and United Kingdom authorities. &#160;&#160; While you are absolutely right to say that the issue of the Parthenon Marbles is a bilateral issue between Greece and the United Kingdom, would you not agree that there is a need to further discuss our common European heritage and to find ways of sharing, to the best effect, Europe’s valuable historic resources? &#160;&#160; .
I can assure him that, if one looks, for example, at some of the treasures from the art world that have been brought to the United Kingdom and taken to other European countries in recent years, it reflects that fact that there is much sharing of cultural heritage across European boundaries.
However, there is mounting evidence that, both within and outside the European Union, certain states have seized and rendered terror suspects from one state to another, which is widely recognised as employing torture as an interrogation technique.
Article 3 of the Convention Against Torture, to which all EU Member States are a party, provides that no state shall expel, return or extradite a person to another state where there are substantial grounds for believing that he would be in danger of being subjected to torture.
Regarding the assertion of the honourable Member that, both within and outside the European Union, certain states have seized and rendered terror suspects from one state to another that is widely recognised as employing torture as an interrogation technique, the Council is not aware of the ‘mounting evidence’ claimed by the honourable Member.
It is for the Committee Against Torture set up by the Convention Against Torture to monitor the implementation of the Convention.
The Council is, and will remain, actively committed to the prevention and eradication of torture and other cruel and inhumane or degrading treatment, in line with the EU guidelines on this subject. &#160;&#160; I have heard the answer and am quite happy to forward evidence in my possession, through my office, to the relevant committee and, indeed, to the Presidency.
It also called for implementation of a further framework decision and for ratification of the Mutual Assistance Convention and Protocol and three Europol Convention Protocols, by December 2004.
One year on, can the Council confirm that all Member States have complied with these obligations?
The specific matter raised is an issue that I will certainly look into in the course of the Presidency.
In that context, the specific case mentioned by the honourable Member is known and has been followed closely.
The Presidency can, nonetheless, assure the honourable Member here and now that, if need be, and while respecting the principle of the independence of the judiciary, the Union will not fail to raise this issue with the Turkish authorities, as it does regularly in the various fora for political dialogue as well as within the bodies of the Association Agreement regarding any problems that arise in implementing the reform process. &#160;&#160; I should like to thank the Presidency for its answer and, above all, for its promise to address the practical issue of this Turkish teachers’ organisation in direct bilateral contacts with Turkey.
Major reforms include the abolition of the death penalty, new protections against torture, greater freedoms of expression, association and religion, ratification of international agreements on human rights, greater cultural rights for Kurds and others, and reduction of the military’s role in the government.
The December European Council to which I referred endorsed the 6 October Commission recommendation that – and once again I quote – ‘Turkey has met the Copenhagen political criteria that accession negotiations be opened’.
The Council’s conclusions welcomed the decisive progress made by Turkey in its far-reaching reform process and express confidence that Turkey would sustain that process of reform.
Turkey’s human rights record will be the subject of intense scrutiny during the accession negotiations.
We remain confident that all remaining concerns will be addressed during that accession process. &#160;&#160; Supreme Courts are by definition laws unto themselves and I think you are absolutely right to emphasise that this one unfortunate and unsupportable decision should not in any way impinge on the progress of Turkey towards membership of the European Union.
The decision is especially disappointing after the case had twice been dismissed by the Turkish Labour Court, which had noted that mother-tongue education is permitted under European law.
Again I would reiterate the general point in relation to freedom of expression that free speech is beginning to take hold and beginning to flourish in Turkey.
In any event, it may be recalled that the Council has been steadfast in its support for the pursuit of efforts to achieve the reunification of Cyprus and in its desire to see all Cypriots living together as citizens of a reunited island within the European Union in the near future.
More specifically, as regards the Commission’s proposals relating to part of the instrument of financial support for encouraging the economic development of the Turkish Cypriot community and the exchanges with zones where the Republic of Cyprus exercises no effective control, Council bodies have already carried out important work.
However, the Council can use the Presidency’s good offices to assure the honourable Member that it will continue working to encourage the island’s economic integration and to improve contacts between the two Cypriot communities and within the European Union. &#160;&#160; I welcome the Minister to the House.
In relation to the specific actions that will be taken under the United Kingdom’s Presidency, the Government wishes to see these regulations agreed as soon as possible, in order to fulfil the Council mandate to end the isolation of the Turkish Cypriots.
At the EU-Asean ministerial meeting held in Jakarta in March, the Presidency met with a senior Burmese official to inform him of the European Union’s concerns and to encourage his authorities to attempt to initiate a dialogue with all the country’s political and ethnic groups in order to facilitate reconciliation and democracy in Burma.
Our commitment in Burma is to promote human rights, democratisation and sustainable development as far as we can, using all the tools available to us.
Opposition groups, including the National League for Democracy, acknowledge and welcome the continued political and practical support of the European Union.
Human rights violations have been highlighted in successive highly critical resolutions on Burma in the United Nations General Assembly and in the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
The EU troika expressed our deep concern over the situation in Burma directly to the Burmese Foreign Minister in Kyoto on 6 May.
We continue to believe that it is essential for the regime to enter into a genuine and inclusive dialogue with Aung San Suu Kyi and the National League for Democracy, and with ethnic representatives.
While I am proud of the work that the European Union and European Member States have taken forward on this issue, I think it should be recognised that it is also important for other Asian neighbours of Burma to continue to take action and step up their efforts on the human rights abuses.
The failure in previous resolutions before the United Nations to secure the active support of other Asian partners to the kind of initiatives necessary to bring this degree of pressure to bear on the Burmese regime was a matter of disappointment to us.
The European Commission is due to report in 2006 on the state of transposition of Directives 2000/43/EC and 2000/78/EC.
Furthermore, the Council takes note of the communication of the European Commission of 1 June 2005 on non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all, a framework strategy, in which the Commission proposes to establish a high-level advisory group on social and labour market integration of disadvantaged ethnic minorities.
Under the United Kingdom Presidency, the Council, as well as the European Parliament, will deal with the European Commission’s proposal for a decision on the European Year of Equal Opportunities For All – i.e. 2007 – built upon four key themes: rights – raising awareness of the right of equality and non-discrimination; representation – stimulating a debate on ways to increase the participation of under-represented groups in society; recognition – celebrating and accommodating diversity; and respect and tolerance, promoting a more cohesive society.
I would like to remind the President-in-Office that the United Kingdom has implemented all the directives that he mentions.
I am also grateful to the honourable Member for acknowledging the work of the United Kingdom Government on this particular issue.
We will work with other Member States to develop the details during the course of our Presidency. &#160;&#160; Without wishing to undermine the very serious question put by my good friend and colleague Claude Moraes, I notice that you welcome this particular agency.
I do not wish to break the consensus that appears to have broken out in the Chamber when answering the honourable Member’s question, but I have never seen a contradiction between the establishment of a necessary agency undertaking important work and action being taken by the European Union.
Indeed, it was the subject of lengthy discussions this morning with the Council of Europe, which has expressed similar concerns in terms of how we avoid duplication.
I believe it is necessary for the Presidency to be clear that steps will be taken to ensure that the FRA avoids duplication, as his question suggested.
The Presidency has worked closely with the Council of Europe, which supports the establishment of the FRA.
We believe that the FRA management board could include a representative of the Council of Europe and an observer from the proposed European gender institute in order exactly to avoid the kind of duplication raised by the question.
Regulation (EC) No&#160;2560/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19&#160;December 2001 on cross-border payments in euro has applied since 1 July 2002 so far as electronic payment transactions, cash withdrawals, and card payments are concerned, and since 1 July 2003 to cross-border credit transfers.
It provides for charges levied by financial institutions for cross-border transactions between Member States and the euro area to be aligned with the charges levied for similar transactions within the Member State in question.
It is recalled that the Commission has exclusive right of initiative in the field of Community regulation referred to by the honourable Member.
However, should the Commission decide to send a proposal to that effect, the Council of course would consider it. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much for that answer.
As a Scotsman, I have to say that I fear the question of World Cup tickets may prove only to be of academic interest to me, but I am sure for many other Members represented in this Chamber it will hold greater significance than for those of us in Scotland.
Although it has been confirmed by all audiovisual regulatory authorities that content of al-Manar programmes violates the European Directive on Television without Frontiers, al-Manar continues to be broadcast in Europe and from Europe to other regions of the world: The Spanish (partly Government owned) Hispasat and France's Eutelsat&#160;continue to provide broadcast capacity to al-Manar.
It is surprising that although Hispasat is aware of the hate content of al-Manar it has not yet taken concrete action to suspend such heinous broadcasts,&#160;considering that in France, Eutelsat has received orders by the Government to take al-Manar off the air and has complied with these orders.
In March 2005 the European Commission convened a meeting of the European Audiovisual Regulators (EPRA) where it was reiterated that Article 22a of the Television without Frontiers Directive explicitly prohibits any broadcast that incites hatred for reasons of race, sex, religion or nationality.
At the meeting it was also agreed that such provisions also apply to third-country broadcasters using a frequency, satellite transmission capacity or an uplink to a satellite belonging to a Member State.
Al-Manar incites hate, violence and suicide bombing, spreads antisemitic material and does not respect fundamental rights.
Al-Manar is being broadcast by using satellite services and capacity of Hispasat (partly owned by the Spanish Government) and by Globecast, a subsidiary of France Telecom.
As the honourable Members are aware, the Council is committed to the fight against incitement to hatred in broadcasts.
Article 22(a) of the Television Without Frontiers Directive provides that Member States should ensure that broadcasts do not contain any incitement to hatred on grounds of race, sex, religion or nationality.
The Council discussed the issue of incitement to hatred in broadcasting from countries outside the European Union at its meeting on 23 May 2005 and took stock of work initiated to respond the problems posed by satellite broadcasting of non-EU channels in the European Union.
This followed a meeting of the presidents of national broadcasting regulatory authorities on 17 March 2005, which agreed to reinforce cooperation between the regulatory authorities and identified concrete measures to strengthen this cooperation, notably information exchange regarding channels authorised in Member States, establishing a contact point within each national authority.
In the Council, delegations took note of the measures and proposals outlined to combat incitement to hatred in broadcasts.
They recognise that consideration should be given to the means of combating more effectively the broadcasting of such material in the context of the revision of the Television Without Frontiers Directive, notably the adaptation of this instrument to the most recent technological developments. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I should like to thank the British Presidency for its firm and measured response.
The underlying problem of this issue, however, is that of the relationship between the European institutions and those in third countries who actively promote terrorism.
Today, in fact, I read an article in the press saying that there is an active campaign in Iran to incite people to commit suicide attacks in Israel and Iraq.
As I sought to reflect in my initial answer, we wholly condemn actions which are taken towards inciting the kind of terrorism and acts of violence which he describes and I hope my earlier remarks reflect the seriousness with which we regard this problem. &#160;&#160; I would like to thank you for your considered reply and also for the fact that the British Government has belatedly given consideration to banning Hizbollah’s so-called civilian wing, whereas in fact there is no difference between the civilian and the military wing.
I am, however, grateful to the honourable Member for his warm welcome to his home city’s success in securing the Olympic Games and let me assure him that there are plenty of opportunities in bilateral forums and indeed in contact between the European Union and other nations outwith the European Union to raise exactly the kind of concerns of which he spoke this afternoon. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, I would like to thank and congratulate the Spanish authorities, who have, in turn, just banned the television channel Al-Manar, which we are discussing here, from being broadcast via their satellite Hispasat.
Having said that, I would like to ask Mr&#160;Alexander two specific questions, because our information on latest developments seems to differ, as do our interpretations of certain articles in the Television Without Frontiers Directive.
The other point I would make is the basic one that Community law does not apply to broadcasts intended exclusively for reception in third countries and that is also a factor in our discussions. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, Mr&#160;Alexander, Spain did in fact resolve this problem only last week, but France has unfortunately not yet followed suit.
The honourable Member is right to acknowledge that there is now a pause for reflection following the decisions reached at the Brussels European Council just a couple of weeks ago.
Let us be clear, first of all, that the preparatory work to date has consisted of discussions between the Member States, the Council Secretariat and the Commission, as tasked by the Heads of State and Government in October 2004.
As I said in my initial answer, no formal decisions have been taken. &#160;&#160; Does the Presidency accept that the Constitution in some places makes mandatory things that are already perfectly possible and legal under the current Treaties?
National parliaments could be better involved with early information, and some aspects of the External Action Service may, for instance, be explored in due course.
However, we also need to reflect the fact that the decision reached at the Brussels European Council two weeks ago was for a period of reflection.
It is necessary, therefore, to reflect that in the priorities that we will be developing in the course of the coming year.
There will be plenty of opportunities, both for Members of this Parliament and, indeed, for European leaders, the European peoples and the public within Europe, to take part in those discussions during the period of reflection.
At its extraordinary meeting of 21 September 2001, the European Council declared that terrorism represented a genuine challenge to the world and to Europe, and that the fight against terrorism, on the basis of the rule of law and respect for international Agreements, would be a priority objective of the European Union.
One of the agreements in question is the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation, done at Montreal on 23 September 1971, which is, along with Venezuela's bilateral extradition treaty with the USA, the basis on which the Venezuelan Government is demanding that the North American courts extradite the Venezuelan citizen, Luís Posada Carriles.
In the European Council declaration on combating terrorism of 25 March 2004, the Union and its Member States pledged to do everything within their power to combat all forms of terrorism in accordance with the fundamental principles of the Union, the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and the obligations set out under United Nations Security Council Resolution 1373.
In this context, the Council recalls that all EU Member States are party to the Montreal Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the safety of Civilian Aviation, which makes it an offence to endanger the safety of an aircraft in flight and requires states that have custody of offenders either to extradite the offender or submit the case for prosecution. &#160;&#160; Minister, this case creates great social alarm because, despite the fact that this is a bilateral problem between Venezuela and the United States of America, those countries must not give the impression that they are sheltering or protecting people accused of terrorist crimes, including in the case of people linked to the intelligence services, as in the case of Mr Posadas, who was actually on the payroll of the CIA.
In reply to Question H-0377/05, the Council representative stated that 21 Member States had notified the General Secretariat of the Council that they had transposed the framework decision, but in two Member States the draft legislation transposing this decision had been, or would soon be, put before Parliament and that one Member State had announced that it had transposed the decision in part.
On the basis of the information obtained, the Council can inform you that the 25th Member State – namely Italy – has informed the General Secretariat of the Council that the provisions implementing the Council Framework Decision of 13&#160;June 2002 on joint investigation teams and the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of 29 May 2000, are contained in draft law C2372, tabled by the government on 20 February 2002 and currently undergoing scrutiny in joint committees 2 – justice – and 3 – foreign affairs – of Italy’s Chamber of Deputies.
However, is he now saying that a promise to write to us after Question Time will not produce a reply and that we must put down a supplementary in order to get the answer?
The Gleneagles G8 summit, taking place in Scotland this week, will focus on two key issues: Africa and climate change.
It is currently not on target to meet any of the UN Millennium Development Goals first set out at the Millennium Summit in 2000.
The continent needs a step change in development, financing, health, education, governance and the capacity to trade in global markets and programmes for dealing with killer diseases and building African peacekeeping capacity.
Major irreversible change in our climate is a real threat and the most important issue we face in the long term.
The summit is an opportunity to move forward the debate at the highest political level and to help forge a common vision.
The European Union plays a leading role in both issues and has already agreed policies on them.
For example, the 12&#160;July Ecofin meeting will discuss development financing.
If one considers the truly historic decision taken by European Union Development Ministers within the last month to effectively double the level of aid provided by European Union Member States by 2010, from approximately USD&#160;40&#160;billion to USD&#160;80&#160;billion, it is clear that it has already established a very important benchmark for the G8, as it gathers in Scotland this week.
If I might be so bold, with the permission of Parliament, I think the United Kingdom also deserves credit in this instance for having decided to put the issue of Africa at the top of the international agenda of this week’s G8 meeting.
Each of those represents a vital staging post on the onward march of progress towards helping many of the world’s poorest countries and the peoples of Africa.
If you need any further illustration of the critical contribution that European Union institutions can make to that progress, one need look no further than the decisions that will be reached in Hong Kong in December, where I personally hope the European Union’s Trade Commissioner will be able to advance an agenda that is pro-growth in Europe and pro-poor in the world. &#160;&#160; Can I say first say to the Minister that I have been very impressed with the British Government in its general handling of this issue, and I congratulate you.
We are definitely in agreement that the peoples of Europe care passionately about the issue of development.
If, like me, you had been able to see in excess of 200&#160;000 people gathered in that city, you would have been in no doubt whatsoever about the extent to which both the European Union and the Government of the United Kingdom are acting with the full support of people from right across Europe in pursuit of the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.
If you take, for example, the Millennium Development Goals, and in particular their aspirations for sub-Saharan Africa, the timescale set out by world leaders back in 2000 was 15 years for the achievement of those Millennium Development Goals.
This proposal was discussed by the Council on 2 June.
As with every incoming Presidency, our responsibility is to seek to lead and also to find consensus, but that consensus will inevitably and appropriately involve the United Kingdom, as well as the other Member States of the European Union.
In particular, Article 152(5) states that Community action in the field of public health shall fully respect the responsibilities of the Member States for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care.
In April this year, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe rejected by a large majority a draft measure to legalise euthanasia in Europe.
As such, the Council has no competence as regards euthanasia and so it cannot create legislation on this issue.
It is therefore for Member States to ensure that they have procedures and provisions in place to define the roles and responsibilities of medical and nursing staff.
In a statement issued in the aftermath of the elections, the Presidency expressed its grave concern regarding the situation in Togo following the elections on 24 April and paid tribute to the people of Togo who took part in the ballot despite difficult conditions.
In a declaration issued on 3 June, the European Union expressed its support for the initiatives taken by the African Union through its Peace and Security Council, in particular the appointment of a special envoy to facilitate dialogue between the Togolese parties and the decision to send an observer mission to monitor the political, security, social and humanitarian situation, as well as the human rights situation in the country.
The European Union also urged the Togolese authorities to carry out an impartial, exhaustive and credible investigation into the acts of violence against the civilian population.
The European Union declares that it is ready to support the national reconciliation process and it will continue to monitor the political situation in Togo closely, particularly in relation to the 22 engagements undertaken by the Togolese Government during the consultations under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement and reproduced in the Council Decision of 15 November 2004.
The next legislative elections in Togo figure among the election monitoring priorities established by the Commission for 2005.
However, in all EU-NATO meetings, and in the context of EU institutional procedures, Turkey prevents Cyprus and Malta from participating even in matters not involving direct military cooperation between the two organisations, by taking a very broad interpretation of the North Atlantic Council's decision of 13 December 2002.
Likewise, they do not receive NATO classified information or EU classified information containing or referring to NATO classified information.
This state of affairs necessarily has implications for Cyprus and Malta’s participation in EU-NATO meetings, as well as in some internal EU meetings.
It will not, however, affect the rights and obligations of EU states in their capacity as EU members, in particular the entitlement of Cyprus and Malta under the EU Treaty to participate fully and without discrimination in defining and implementing the CFSP, including defence aspects.
The Council is fully aware of the problem and, in the absence of complete resolution of the issue, has been raising it constantly over the past year with the parties involved.
I would like to consider this a first, even though small, step forward to more significant progress on this difficult issue. &#160;&#160; – I would like to give special thanks to the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Alexander, and start by wishing him every strength and every success in his job and that of the British Presidency.
I understand from your answer, Mr Alexander, that the European Union and the British Presidency do not agree with the approach and the interpretation which Turkey gives to relations between the European Union and ΝΑΤΟ.
At the same time, in a clear breach of the principles of international law, the Cuban government is preventing contact between MEPs and human rights activists in Cuba.
Consequently, the European Union aims to encourage a process of transition to pluralist democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and sustainable recovery and improvement in the living standards of the Cuban people.
This Council has also expressed regret at the lack of any further advance since the release of several political prisoners imprisoned in March 2003.
Furthermore, the Council has categorically condemned Cuba’s unacceptable attitude to foreign parliamentarians and journalists who attended the Assembly to Promote Civil Society, on 20 May 2005, and were either expelled or denied entry into Cuba.
Moreover, closer relations with the peaceful political opposition and with broader sectors of Cuban civil society through intense and regular dialogue decided at the end of January have produced satisfying results.
The Council has decided to reconsider its position in the context of evaluation of the common position in June 2006. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, I should like to ask the Council representative to inform the House of the specific measures that the Council intends to take.
The European Council supports the lifting of sanctions against the Castro regime, despite the fact that the EU should insist on respect for human rights when pursuing its foreign policy.
On 31 January the European Union agreed to intensify its dialogue with the peaceful opposition in Cuba and then on 13 June, conclusions also noted that the expulsion of EU deputies and journalists, which prevented them from attending a meeting of civil society on 20th May in Havana, was unacceptable.
This positive stance is made all the more important by the fact that the political processes required by Switzerland for these agreements to be ratified have now been completed, the most important stage in them having been, without doubt, the referendum held on 5&#160;June.
We, too – and your House not least – should all make good use of this favourable response on the part of the Swiss in order to foster a positive attitude towards the European cause, and this will of course involve the completion of our own procedures with the minimum possible delay.
The agreements were signed on 26 October 2004 in Luxembourg and augur well for the continuing development of relations between the EU and Switzerland.
Moreover, the agreements relating to Schengen and Dublin also enhance security by means of cooperation in combating crime and in the exchange of data across borders.
It is for this reason that it is so important that Parliament should endorse the conclusion of the agreements.
Having once again examined its position, the Commission has come to the conclusion that it ought to be possible to agree on one point, namely that neither agreement is an association agreement within the meaning of the European Communities Treaty, even though the word ‘association’ occurs in their titles.
Apart from that, though, the Commission does take the view that these agreements do not create any kind of specific institutional framework for the cooperation processes.
The point I particularly want to make with reference to this is that the mixed committees’ sole function is to rule on whether or not the agreements should remain in force in the event of Switzerland failing to discharge its treaty obligations, specifically the transposition of the Schengen or Dublin into domestic law.
It also has to be said that these mixed committees are entitled to exercise influence to a considerably lesser degree than the mixed committees already in existence, as established through other bilateral agreements with Switzerland.
For these reasons, the Commission regards the legal position as being that neither agreement requires assent.
As the Commissioner has already pointed out, these are good proposals.
As I said, I very much respect the decision of the Swiss people on 5 June and I am therefore happy to proceed.
From my point of view it indicates that the right procedure would have been the assent procedure rather than consultation.
I still hope that we might be able to reach an accommodation here, because the purpose of my two amendments to this report is to make sure that this is an assent and not a consultation procedure.
My committee is quite clear about this, having taken advice, and I too feel very strongly.
I do not want to be seen to be blocking progress or obstructing the will of the Swiss people, who are very interested in the outcome of our discussions and what I am doing here.
However, it is in everybody’s interests that we make it clear that the European Parliament very much guards its right to be involved in assent procedures in the limited fields in which they apply.
I hope that the Commissioner will be able to reconsider.
The very great difficulties that the German farmers face have to do with the fact that the Swiss pay much higher subsidies, so that the Swiss farmers are able to pay higher rents, and now they are going to get aid from the European Union too.
It is our belief – and our own Legal Affairs Committee confirms it – that these mixed committees really are institutional in character.
I do not therefore think that it will be possible for the European Union to ratify this agreement at present. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member whose electoral district is directly adjacent to Switzerland, I do of course share with Mr von Wogau a fundamental interest in good, and above all close, cooperation between the European Union and that country.
Although I do not wish to say anything about the legal basis, on which I can do no other than agree with Mr&#160;Kirkhope, Members of this House are getting the impression that cooperation between the Member States on the one hand and the European Union – with which Switzerland has been in negotiations – on the other is not all that our constituents have a right to expect.
I do believe, though, that, despite everything, this agreement adds up – bearing in mind the fact that the Agreement on the free movement of persons has to be added on 25 September – to an advance for those who live in our electoral district, for Schengen and Dublin are about closer and therefore better cooperation in the control of persons and are thus of benefit to internal security.
It is, though, because both the European Union and Switzerland must benefit from their mutual cooperation that I share the view that the Schengen Agreement and the Agreement on the free movement of persons must complement one another like two sides of a single coin.
Particularly in view of the ongoing problems with borders, which we will be discussing with our Swiss opposite numbers at the meeting of the SINEEA delegation in Fribourg next week, it is right and proper that the Commission should tell them that we have to regard Schengen as inseparable from the Agreement on the free movement of persons, and this, as Mr von Wogau so rightly said, should not, if at all possible, be seen as the end, but rather as the beginning, of a process by which the Swiss will come to agree to other closer cooperative relationships.
I wish to congratulate the Commission on the initiative and to say to the Commissioner that it is very important that Switzerland can become the third country from outside the EU, after Iceland and Norway, to be involved in the execution, implementation and development of the Schengen acquis and the Dublin/Eurodac system.
The fact is that the Swiss people decided in a referendum, as mentioned by Mr Kirkhope, to have closer ties with the EU by integrating the Schengen area, which allows free movement, and by means of the Dublin Agreement, which covers asylum policy.
Switzerland stands to gain politically, in terms of greater stability in its geographical neighbourhood, and economically, in terms of the benefits of greater flow of movement.
As regards the second agreement, Switzerland will have to accept, implement and apply the current and future Dublin/Eurodac acquis with no exception.
I should like to conclude by pointing out that these agreements mark a welcome shift towards closer relations between Switzerland and the EU.
I think we are all, when it comes down to it, glad that we now have these agreements, that one of them has already been approved by a referendum, and that we can embark on the process of ratification.
Even though Mr Kirkhope has already done so, I would like now, again, to confirm the position.
In all other instances, Parliament can only give its opinion.
I would like to briefly respond to the issues addressed by Mr von Wogau and also referred to by Mr Schwab.
We are, I think, fully aware of the problems and issues that they have mentioned, which have to do with cooperation between areas, and, in particular, between regions.
Today’s poverty already has a history, and part of that history has to do with the mistakes that have been made in development finance over recent years and have had the consequence that today, still, 2&#160;736 million people – amounting to almost half the world’s population – have less than two dollars a day on which to live.
I would like to return to an element in this morning’s debate that I regard as directly relevant to this report.
They also call for more, and in particular better, resources to be allocated to development aid than have been to date.
Despite the Barcelona agreement, they still, to far too great a degree, operate in parallel – the Commission alongside the Member States, multilateral and national development banks side by side – and ultimately counter-productively.
It is for that reason that this report attaches great importance to the need for the EIB, in taking up its new tasks, to give priority to coherence, transparency and, above all coordination, from the very outset.
Yet this new mandate must contain a clear commitment to the tasks particularly associated with the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, and to the combating of poverty in the countries to which money is lent.
Such things may appear in accounts as foreign investments, but they make no measurable contribution to combating poverty.
I believe that the European Investment Bank still pays far from enough heed to the requirement that it should apply the Millennium Development Goals as indicators, enabling it to assess the effects of its own operations after the event.
It relies on general data, which I do not believe to be sufficient, particularly when one draws comparisons with the effectiveness with which the national development banks of certain Member States already operate.
For this, it needs a clearer mandate from its shareholders, the Member States, so I ask you, tomorrow, to vote to adopt this report, for by so doing you will maintain the productive and cooperative relationship between this House and the European Investment Bank, and we will be enabled to make progress in the field of development aid. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mrs&#160;Zimmer, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs&#160;Zimmer on her report on the impact of the European Investment Bank’s activities in developing countries.
Some of you will know that I wrote to Mr&#160;Maystadt in February this year, expressing concerns about the Cotonou Investment Facility.
One of the improvements that I have noticed is a greater willingness to take the risks inherent in investment in developing countries; another is the systematic application of a new framework seeking to measure the impact of operations on development.
In short, we think that the investment facility is on the right track in the ACP region.
I would now like to make five comments on the report, starting with services of general interest.
We entirely agree that it is necessary to improve the provision of services of general interest in developing countries, for example in the water and transport sectors.
As many of these projects are not viable in commercial terms, they obviously require an element of subsidy.
With regard to cooperation between the EIB and the Commission, we recognise that even more needs to be done to improve the infrastructure in developing countries.
The Commission is preparing a communication on Africa, as you know.
This communication will propose a considerable increase in the availability of regional and transcontinental infrastructure.
This objective will require substantial efforts to be made to improve coordination between the EIB and the Commission, as well as with other financial bodies and institutions.
With regard to micro-lending, we fully support the reference to micro-lending in the report.
Consequently, the Commission strongly supports the European Parliament’s call to increase the EIB’s microcredit aid.
Finally, with regard to the review of the external lending mandates, we recently proposed, at a meeting between the Commissioner for External Relations and President&#160;Maystadt, to increase the development aspect of the EIB’s external activities, outside the ACP region.
I should not like to finish without paying tribute to President&#160;Maystadt and his team, who, certainly during all our meetings and whenever we have been in contact, have shown themselves to be very open-minded.
Within the EIB Presidency, at any rate, there is clearly a considerable openness to development and if President&#160;Maystadt cannot go any further in terms of effectiveness, it is partly because, unfortunately, there are rules and his goodwill has its limits.
The EIB’s statute needs to be strengthened by Parliament: to create a legal base, to have a grant funding element so that its lending and its interest charges can be much more competitive and be given with some security.
For example, if the EIB were to lend at 1% a EUR 1 billion loan, it is only going to cost EUR 10 million.
Very little, but it would enable the EIB to give billions to create infrastructure, create small businesses, create microcredits, and it would cost our Community aid budget EUR 20 million.
The fact that the bank takes into account the views of non-governmental organisations and public opinion, even at the project monitoring stage, is important.
Environmental impact assessment and an environmental impact statement have now been integrated into the project cycle, while attention will continue to be focused on the social and employment policy consequences of the investments.
It is because I believe that a political solution needs to be found to this ongoing contradiction that I regard this as the principal subject for attention in any discussion about the Bank’s policies.
One thing that I believe has to be done is for the granting of loans to be guided by the need to address poverty and meet social, environmental and human rights criteria, which must take precedence over financial and technical considerations, and which the Bank’s management must ensure is put into practice.
Secondly, I think it very important that the Bank should make more use of the instruments for interest rate subsidy provided for in the Cotonou and MEDA agreements, in order to become able to finance the development of small and medium-sized enterprises by means of loans at lower rates of interest.
It is particularly important that no support be given to projects that do not meet the criteria of the World Commission on Dams, that is to say major dam-building projects.
These three things I do believe we can put into practice right now, and then, in the long term, there will be a need for a fundamental debate on reform. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the socialists of the new Italian Socialist Party.
The countries in question should draw up precise financial plans, set out the extent of internal resources that can be invested in the plan and how much will have to be obtained from donors.
In this context, EU action, even though it has got off to a good beginning, must be rapidly improved and the mechanisms relating to action must be made more flexible and dynamic.
On the basis of concrete and operational experience, the appropriate and necessary improvements should be made.
It is particularly important to adopt further instruments to stimulate the investments of small and medium-sized businesses and to encourage entrepreneurship, especially among women and young people.
In two weeks’ time a delegation from this Parliament, of which I will have the honour of being a member, will visit the areas in Indonesia struck by the terrible tragedy of the tsunami.
Lending a hand by giving practical support to people who are on their knees, trying to get up, is a duty of solidarity that Europe cannot and must not shirk. &#160;&#160; Allow me to make a few final remarks on the importance of the EIB’s external activities in the developing countries.
As I said at the beginning of the debate, the EIB is a very important partner for the Commission when it comes to implementing new political initiatives, particularly the provision of infrastructure in Africa.
We will continue to assist the bank in its efforts and we will endeavour to increase the possible synergies between our two organisations with the aim of improving aid to developing countries.
Many of the answers to the questions and remarks that have been put forward, and rightly so, clearly require, or in any event entail or would entail, an updating or amendment of the statutes.
You are right: certain goods and services cannot be commoditised or, in any event, cannot be commoditised under the same conditions as others.
We must make the EIB work better, contribute to improvements and, at the same time, reflect on its future.
I must say that usually we are faced with much greater conservatism when we want to carry out reforms of this kind.
It is therefore interesting that within the EIB we can count on this open-mindedness, this flexibility and this mentality.
I sincerely believe that they largely share the concerns that have been expressed here. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the statement by the Commission on the implementation of the Community action plan FLEGT (Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am of course delighted at the interest that you are taking in the Community action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade, FLEGT.
In the meantime, we have released EUR&#160;17&#160;million to finance pilot programmes relating to the fundamental aspects of the action plan, in particular to encourage independent monitoring of logging operations, to strengthen local civil society and to encourage the private sector to follow the broad political guidelines set out in the action plan.
We have also released EUR&#160;3&#160;million to support the international and regional dialogue on improving forest governance and combating illegal logging.
We have also endeavoured to develop a common approach with the Member States of the European Union.
As part of our joint work programme, bilateral agencies of European lenders are currently holding informal consultations on FLEGT partnership agreements in potential partner countries, including Ghana, Cameroon, the Republic of Congo, Gabon, Malaysia and Indonesia.
That should make it easier to hold formal negotiations on partnership agreements once we have a mandate to negotiate on behalf of the Community.
The evaluation is in progress and is taking place in close collaboration with the Member States, since many of the potential measures are clearly matters of national competence.
The options evaluated include public procurement policy, money laundering, stolen goods and anti-corruption legislation, in addition to the feasibility of practical aspects of the new legislation on monitoring imports of illegally logged timber.
To conclude, I would like to say a few words about the calls for a unilateral ban on imports of timber of illegal origin.
However, a unilateral ban on importing illegally logged timber into the European Union would not, it seems, provide our customs authorities with an instrument enabling them to confirm the legality of the timber.
To achieve this, we need the full and complete cooperation of the exporting country, which is why the Commission has proposed a voluntary system based on partnerships with the producer countries.
These partnerships will combine a whole raft of governance reforms in the producer countries with measures to stop timber of illegal origin from being imported into the European Union, in particular a licensing system for imports.
The European Union is still one of the largest importers of illegally sourced timber.
In Europe we have lost most of our ancient forests and woodlands, to the detriment of our environment and our native species.
It is not too late to protect the less developed parts of the world and thus protect the two-thirds of the world’s land animals and plant species that live there.
Twenty million people in the Amazon and 12 million in Africa are at risk, not to mention the great apes and other species of mammals and birds found nowhere else in the world.
The Commissioner has helpfully told us what action is being taken.
At the same time, I think that this evening’s topic also relates to development and even, as Mr&#160;Bowis said, to life and death.
Mr President, this morning we had a long debate about poverty.
Illegal trade is a key factor in bad governance.
When the governments of developing countries do not get any revenue, do not get their duties, that is money that could have been spent on the Millennium Development Goals.
The motion for a resolution deals comprehensively with actions that can be taken to stop illegal logging, but the most important thing is that some action is taken.
Voluntary partnership agreements are a good place to start.
Developing countries will need support to get the necessary certification systems in place, but such support is already available as an element of development cooperation, as the Commissioner has just indicated.
However, there are several things we can do from the European side to make voluntary agreements a success.
So far, unfortunately, only five EU Member States have moved towards a public procurement policy.
Secondly, we can make use of consumer power.
Over 70 European timber firms have already signed up to a declaration committing them to trading only in legal wood.
Let us get on with implementing the FLEGT action plan. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, I have noted your answer, but am compelled to express my disappointment at the slow progress of the process of implementing the Forest Law Enforcement, Government and Trade (FLEGT) Plan.
I was in Brazil recently and had the opportunity to talk with various Brazilian social organisations.
They are extremely concerned at this state of affairs, and indeed the government and other authorities have expressed similar concerns.
This whole process has far-reaching consequences, both for the countries illegally exporting this wood and for our own countries.
We are playing a part in jeopardising the survival of key forests and biodiversity; we are having a direct influence on the climatic conditions, the people and the employment situation in both the producing countries and the importing countries; and, in so doing, we are damaging the businesses that act legally and destabilising international wood markets.
The broad goal for the regional or inter-regional bilateral agreements set out in the EU’s action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade, which the Commission tabled in 2003, was to contribute towards sustainable development.
It is therefore impossible to understand why progress has been so slow in implementing the various undertakings under this plan.
Parliament can then discuss this proposal and make a positive contribution to this whole process.
Urgent action must be taken. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, we look to you to take a lead.
We look, first of all, for you to get this legislation which, as you said, was approved by the Commission on to the statute books.
It is now two years since the Commission gave the approval, but where is it?
Commissioner, there is nothing more to be said, except that we all know that the forests are disappearing at a huge rate.
Nevertheless, I have been doing some investigating: in its FLEGT action plan, the European Union sets out its commitment to analyse the available options for supplementary measures, in particular the feasibility of legislation to monitor imports of illegally logged timber into the European Union.
The progress of this work has been monitored very closely by Parliament, which has invited the Commission to propose legislation of this kind.
I can tell you that the Commission is committed to reviewing and analysing the feasibility of additional legislation to support the FLEGT action plan.
The evaluation is in progress and is taking place in close collaboration with the Member States, since many of the potential measures are matters of national competence.
The options evaluated include public procurement policy, money laundering, stolen goods and anti-corruption legislation, in addition to the feasibility and practical aspects of the new legislation on monitoring imports of illegally logged timber.
Mrs&#160;Hall, you said that we should quite simply ban illegal timber.
I agree with you, but we also need to find a system that will enable us to check that legal timber is not illegal timber.
I have even requested a report from the Joint Research Centre in Ispra on this subject.
The Commission believes that this legal base is the most appropriate, inasmuch as the regulation seeks only to regulate trade in timber products between the European Union and the partner countries.
This matter is therefore not closed; I promise you that I will bring all my leadership to bear on it.
We will still need to convince the Member States, but I promise you that I will return in September with some ideas on the issue.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report by Mrs Kauppi, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on Clearing and Settlement in the European Union [2004/2185(INI)] (A6-0180/2005). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, clearing and settlement are not only the back office of the financial institutions, they are the backbone of the securities market and hence of the capital markets.
They contribute to the smooth functioning of the financial world and of the economy of the European Union.
This situation considerably increases the costs of clearing and settlement at European Union level in comparison to national systems, and particularly in comparison to the situation in the United States.
It is undeniable that we have not yet achieved a European Union market in this field, with the result that we cannot benefit from the advantages of the growth in the European Union that an efficient clearing and settlement system could bring, and that we will not be able to compete effectively at global level.
That is why the Commission welcomes the interest that the European Parliament is taking in this issue in responding to the Commission communication of April&#160;2004.
The Commission’s declared objective is to promote the creation of secure and efficient clearing and settlement systems in the European Union, guaranteeing conditions of fair competition for the various issuers.
We want to eliminate the obstacles to cross-border clearing and settlement, and thus to enable clearing and settlement service providers, if they so wish, to access other markets in the European Union and provide their services in those markets, within a commonly accepted regulatory and supervisory framework.
In 2004, the communication launched very extensive consultations on our initial approach to the policy to be adopted in this field.
Our policy sought not simply to manage the current market situation but to improve the future environment for clearing and settlement in the European Union.
This environment would enable the operators to implement their strategy, firstly without being hindered by superfluous barriers, and secondly in full compliance with essential public interest objectives such as the security of the systems, fair competition, efficiency and so on.
The aim, in cooperation with the private and public sectors, was to eliminate the Giovannini barriers.
In addition, we considered it essential to ensure that clearing and settlement service providers were not prevented from entering other EU markets and providing their services there, nor faced with unreasonable conditions when they wished to do so, simply because the competent authorities refused to recognise the equivalence of the regulatory systems or supervisory practices of other Member States.
If this type of barrier were not lifted, the benefits of lifting the Giovannini barriers, which is the responsibility of the private sector, would be diluted or not fully exploited.
These are complex issues, which is why we are being rigorous about applying our twofold commitment to have ongoing consultation and an in-depth impact assessment.
With regard to ongoing consultation, we have set up three groups that are working very intensively.
The Legal Certainty Group examines issues related to cross-border legal certainty with respect to legal compatibility when securities are held via intermediaries.
The Fiscal Compliance expert group (FISCO) examines cross-border differences with regard to fiscal compliance and aims to reduce the burden of fiscal compliance in this field.
In order to assess the possible impact of any regulatory intervention, a team representing all the services of the Commission is currently conducting a huge impact assessment with a view to gaining a robust instrument, before deciding whether it is appropriate to propose a directive on settlement and clearing and, if so, of course, to determine its precise content.
This approach corresponds perfectly to the point of view expressed in Mrs&#160;Kauppi’s report.
The scale of our commitment to consultation and impact assessment is also illustrated by the contact that we have had with the various rapporteurs responsible for this report.
Following an initial draft report on the basis of relatively clear-cut theories, all of the parties concerned&#160;–&#160;the rapporteur, the experts advising the Commission, the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the Commission secretariat and staff&#160;–&#160;put a great deal of effort into this matter.
When I took over this report from Mrs Villiers, who deserves considerable thanks for her thorough approach and hard work, it was quite clear to me what the outcome should be.
As we know, the Commission recently produced a Green Paper on financial services.
It explicitly stated that any new European proposal for financial services legislation and implementing rules should pass a number of economic tests.
The report before you sends a clear signal to the markets that the achievements will not be hampered by unnecessary regulation.
Some of the amendments that have been tabled depart from this functional approach and seek to prejudge the need for regulation.
However, it would be a serious mistake to apply this philosophy in the case of clearing and settlement.
More importantly, our clear signal in support of the developments that are taking place in the clearing and settlement markets should not be diluted with confused concerns regarding potential developments sometime in the future, for which no evidence currently exists.
We should not seek to implement some arbitrarily defined single utility or service model across the EU, as that would hamper ongoing market-led cross-border integration and consolidation, along with the tangible benefits accruing to customers of clearing and settlement services.
It is a very important field of the single market.
I fully appreciate Commission efforts in this respect.
I would like to thank all your staff who have worked hard with Parliament in reaching this compromise.
It is certainly a good thing that our Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has reached a sound compromise on this subject and I would like to thank Mrs&#160;Villiers and also my colleague, Mrs&#160;Kauppi, for that.
This compromise relies above all on market players finding solutions to the problems that arise.
Let us therefore retain free competition as a basic principle, so that this sector can evolve, innovate and, above all, remain competitive at international level.
We know that the Commission is in the process of assessing the need for legislation in this field.
I do not need to remind you that publishing this impact assessment before proposing a text seems to me to be the only valid way of ensuring an open discussion on this topic.
In contrast, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is not convinced of the benefits of greater regulation and rejects the concept of public utility for this sector.
This too is a good balance and Parliament has a duty to accept it.
The UK Competition Commission will very soon deliver its opinion on this possible merger or on the other combination of Euronext and LSE.
At least we should monitor the various aspects from the point of view of competition and the impact on the smooth functioning of the European financial markets.
Unbundling of different elements in the clearance and settlement value chain is not something we propose at this stage, but I would like to have more assurance that cross-subsidies do not exist in this industry and that custodian banks are free to transfer securities outside their home conglomerates.
Let me finish by saying that CESR – the Committee of European Securities Regulators – has already been active on this issue, which has not always been welcomed by our committee, because what it was doing was not very transparent.
I believe that we will be able to begin to solve this problem, as it is one of the European Union's economic policy decisions that has already been the subject of lengthy debate, although the results have yet to be seen.
It is the cause of the backwardness of the European Union's financial markets compared with other financial markets in the world.
For this reason, we the Members of the European Parliament must reach an agreement and clearly show the market the way to develop a clearing and settlement system, so that it is possible to ensure the forecasts and clarify these predictions.
We must assure that we solve the questions related to price structure clarity, levels and the true rights of access for all participants, as well as those questions related to equal competition in the market.
These are the three main segments.
If we manage to reach an agreement (and I trust that we shall), then national governments will be obliged to act more decisively to remove the obstacles indicated in the accounts.
After all, they are the governments' main creditors.
The countries of Asia are still forming their markets.
Mr President, I find myself wondering if the Commissioner feels at home in amongst all these women.
Recent years in the European Union and the United States have shown that financial markets are very sensitive and sometimes react strongly to external developments.
I should like to back the rapporteur’s comments on the ramifications of introducing a directive.
Finally, I should like to thank Mrs Villiers and Mrs Kauppi once again for the work they have done on this directive.
I think they have produced an excellent piece of work that will help us move forward. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I would like, in turn, to salute and emphasise the excellent quality of Mrs&#160;Kauppi’s work.
This is a divisive subject, but we have succeeded in setting aside our national interests in order to reach, in my view, a sound and constructive compromise that will enable us to remove the existing barriers to cross-border clearing and settlement transactions.
Nevertheless, we felt it was important to remind the Commission of the principles that should guide the consolidation of this sector, which is so essential to a robust and smoothly functioning European banking system and thus to the financing of our economy.
The system must guarantee undistorted competition between the various operators, whatever their size or activities.
We therefore refuse, at this stage, to rule out any instrument, directive or free organisation of the market, or any model, with or without separation of activities, that could be used to consolidate post-market activities.
Nevertheless, I think it is likely that a legislative text will be necessary in order to remove legal and fiscal barriers, if appropriate to adapt the European rules on competition to these activities and, finally, to provide the transparency and accounting separation necessary to the existence of fair competition.
Your contributions clearly confirm the importance of the issue, the essential role of cooperation between the public and private sectors, and also the need for an in-depth analysis prior to any subsequent decision on the possibility of legislation.
I think that this approach is perfectly in line with that of the Commission in the context of the internal market.
New legislation is only justified if the social and economic benefits are clearly established.
We are pleased that we will be able to continue the discussions and the exchange of information with Parliament as we receive more specific results from the various expert groups and from our impact assessment exercise.
It supports our impact assessment exercise and is open to any well-founded new proposals that the Commission might put forward on the basis of the results of the impact assessment. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I am sure we all agree that quality compensates for quantity.
The urgent item concerns the elections that took place in Bulgaria on 25 June this year.
Whichever coalition is formed, work must continue in Bulgaria towards meeting all commitments made during the accession negotiations.
The new government should present an EU integration programme for implementation on all pending issues.
I also note that President Parvanov yesterday signed a degree recalling the Parliament for Monday, 11 July, even though, under the Constitution, he had until 25 July to do so.
In my speech to the Bulgarian Parliament some weeks ago, I encouraged the members of the Bulgarian Parliament to use part of their summer holidays for urgent legislative work and take off for the Black Sea coast only once the EU-related work has been done.
I am glad that the response was positive and glad to find this kind of European motivation in Bulgaria.
However, representatives from Bulgaria and Romania can play a key role in informing their citizens on EU matters, as well as informing us about their countries.
That is a case in point of the evolving European democracy, which is a very dear objective to this House.
Since the closing of negotiations in December 2004, both Bulgaria and Romania have continued to make progress in meeting the accession requirements.
However, the Commission’s ongoing monitoring exercise clearly shows that they can spare no efforts.
Ensuring compliance with the accession requirements by January 2007 will pose a real challenge over the next 17 months.
In June, the Commission sent early warning letters or ‘yellow cards’ to both Bulgaria and Romania in which we indicated areas of serious shortcomings.
There were five such areas for Bulgaria and seven for Romania.
The next significant step will be the comprehensive monitoring report, which will be issued on 25 October.
That will be an extremely crucial checkpoint for both Bulgaria and Romania.
I will underline what both President Barroso and I have said, which reflects the position of the Commission.
We are having it because the Conference of Presidents, having already decided to invite representatives from Romania and Bulgaria to come, one year ahead of their countries’ accessions, to observe the work of this House and take part in it, suddenly reviewed the decision and – the Social Democrats having changed their minds – overturned it.
We are also having it because the President of this House failed, on Monday, to inform us of the fact that he had already sent them a letter of invitation.
The issue has never been about when the accession of Bulgaria and Romania is to take place.
The political decision has been taken.
Our sole concern was and is with the issue of whether we take ourselves seriously, of whether the matter in hand is more important than the date, of whether equal treatment is more important than the small change of day-to-day politics.
The question of how we treat one another and the candidates for accession is too important to be handled with so much emotion, and to be the subject of so much disinformation, as we have seen from our competitors and rivals in this House since Monday. &#160;&#160; .
Given that both Romania and Bulgaria signed the Treaty of Accession on 25 April, the road has been open for them too – in my view – from that day onwards.
The Conference of Presidents – a body democratically elected by us in this House – decided on 9 June to send the letter of invitation to the representatives of the two countries in question.
I therefore think that we will be taking ourselves seriously if we keep our word regarding this letter, and actually welcome our new colleagues warmly to the Parliament from 26 September.
Aside from this, it is my opinion that on 25 October, when the monitoring report is issued, it would be a pleasure (for you too, I am sure,) if our fellow representatives were able to participate as observers in the work of the sitting.
If they know what the problem is and how to solve it; if they know what proposals are being put forward (or reservations expressed) concerning them by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) or European Democrats or by the other side; if they are here and we are able to work together with them.
This is why I think we should welcome them, and I agree with what Commissioner Olli Rehn said regarding preparedness.
We had less time, but the biggest reservation concerning these two countries continues to be that they are less advanced in terms of meeting the accession requirements than the ten countries that most recently acceded.
The development and stability of the continent of Europe is to a large degree dependent on the simultaneous deepening and enlargement of the European Union.
Particularly in the Balkans, every extra square metre of European soil that sustains democracy, the rule of law and human rights also adds to the space in which conflicts can be peacefully resolved.
Every country must fulfil the requisite accession criteria: not only on paper but also in practice, in a reality that the people can apprehend.
There are still too many problems involved in doing away with the cumbersome bureaucracy, despite the positive efforts that have been made to that end.
The shocking success of the extreme right-wing Ataka party in the Bulgarian elections, which got into parliament with 8% of the vote, has done nothing to improve the overall political climate.
What is important is that we send a signal to those who hold responsibility in both countries.
Unlike most members of my group, I am persuaded that we should invite observers to this House only after the progress report has appeared and a decision on accession has been taken.
We should make clear to the governments in Bucharest and Sofia the fact that major reforms are still needed and that the sprint down the home straight to accession will not be accomplished without effort. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reason why we called for this debate was that we wanted an opportunity to discuss at what point it would be right to invite observers.
The proper place for decisions such as this one is in this plenary and in broad daylight, and it is not very democratic for them to be taken by the Conference of Presidents and behind closed doors.
That is why the enlargement process has got completely out of hand; the fact is that we cannot cope with enlarging the EU and deepening it both at the same time, and we must now be very firm in giving priority to deepening it.
Even so, it sent the wrong message to invite these countries to send observers over a year before an accession the date for which has not yet been fixed.
It is for that reason that we want to discuss that now. &#160;&#160; There is no question that the accession process must not be allowed to come to a halt, given that all of us believe Romania’s accession is necessary as the only possible means of providing this people, who have suffered so many trials and tribulations, with reasonable prospects for the future at last.
It can provide a solution to many as yet unresolved problems; many Romanian children – both Roma and non-Roma – may be freed from the dangers of poverty as a result; environmental protection, including the issue of Rosia Montana (Verespatak) may – I hope – be resolved in a European manner.
Parliament must play a key role in this process.
The Commission’s progress report in October provides the last chance to resolve any dilemmas that persist.
The issue is such a serious one and our task so laden with responsibility that we cannot allow it to become the subject of political jousting between parties.
For this to become a reality in everyday life, and not just a pretty catch-phrase, compliance with the accession commitments is crucial.
As you said, Commissioner, ‘every day, every week, every month counts’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I very much regret that we are having this debate at this time, as it sends a confusing and essentially negative message to the people of Bulgaria.
In the case of Bulgaria, unlike Romania, this would require a unanimous decision of the Council.
I have always underlined the need to ensure that each country is dealt with on its own merits and that the fates of Bulgaria and Romania should not be inextricably tied together.
It is widely accepted that Bulgaria has fewer problems than Romania.
I am only too aware that the elections in Bulgaria on 25 June have produced an unclear result.
The process of building a government coalition is urgently under way, with a view to convening the Parliament on 11 July.
The debate tonight merely adds to uncertainty, both in government circles and among the citizens of Bulgaria.
It was confirmed to me in writing just two weeks ago on 16 June by the leader of the PPE-DE Group.
He said as follows: ‘The Conference of Presidents has decided on its last meeting to invite the observers from both accession countries Romania and Bulgaria to join the European Parliament for the September II session in Strasbourg’, which means from 26 September onwards.
Observers from last year’s ten accession states had been invited to join us as soon as possible after signature of the Accession Treaty.
Any other decision would send an unhelpful signal to our Bulgarian and Romanian friends.
I very much look forward to welcoming them here in September as observers and as full Members from January 2007. &#160;&#160; Mr President, our Parliament overwhelmingly approved the accessions of Romania and Bulgaria to full membership of the European Union during our plenary session in April.
The week before, our Parliament’s JPC delegation, chaired by my group colleague Mr Podestà, visited our Romanian parliamentary colleagues and met with the President, the Prime Minister and the Home Affairs and Justice Ministers.
On 9 June the Conference of Presidents sent the invitation to the Romanian and Bulgarian Parliaments to nominate their European Parliament observers and for them to take up their duties on 26 September.
I regret the European Parliament appears just now not to have maintained a consistent common approach, and that my own Group at present may not be wholly associated with the joint motion for a resolution to be voted tomorrow.
I have had the privilege of belonging to the PPE Group for over 15 years.
It is a privilege I firmly intend to preserve.
We have given our word, expressed in our name by the President of our Parliament to the observers, that they should take up their duties from 26 September.
They regard the prospect of EU membership as the guarantee that they will achieve their goal.
This moment of uncertainty in the EU is a time for our Parliament to show courage and perseverance.
We have given our word.
We must step down from our ivory tower and consider the consequences of the decisions that we, and in particular the authorities of this Parliament, are taking.
It is quite clear that we cannot accept observers prior to the Commission’s report, and that we cannot accept them for Romania and Bulgaria earlier than we did for the other accession countries, that is a year before the proposed date of accession.
That is why I said myself that I was astounded at the way in which the Commission prepared the negotiating mandate with Turkey.
We must rejoin the reality of the European people, and to do that, Commissioner, we need to re-examine the negotiating mandate that you prepared with Turkey and, in order to re-examine it and to give us time to do so, we need to delay the opening of negotiations.
Consolidation will mean more Europe.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12&#160;noon.
