Childcare facilities - Barcelona objectives (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on childcare facilities - Barcelona objectives.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission welcomes the opportunity, a few days after International Women's Day on 8 March, to make a declaration before the European Parliament on childcare facilities for pre-school age children.
At a meeting of the European Council in Barcelona in 2002, the Member States adopted ambitious aims which were to be fulfilled by 2010.
More than 6 million women in the EU (aged from 25 to 49) say that they are unable to work or can work only part-time because of family obligations.
It is therefore important to act today in order to ensure access to childcare facilities and in order to support employment and to promote equality, social inclusion and the interests of children.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Commissioner, thank you for your statement.
This flexibility works in favour of the labour market but not for women who want and need social security, employment guarantees and reconciliation of private and professional life.
The Barcelona targets, as PSE women demonstrated by our campaign in 2007, are beneficial for the whole of society and all children.
The Barcelona objectives also help towards achieving the Lisbon objectives of having 60% of women in the labour market by making the reconciliation of public and professional life possible for women workers.
They can follow a similar life path to their parents or do the exact opposite.
In the European Union, more than six million women aged 25 to 49 state that they are forced to be unemployed or work part time due to their family responsibilities.
Six years after the adoption of the Barcelona objectives, as the 2010 deadline approaches, we find that most Member States will not achieve these objectives, which were not even particularly ambitious: guaranteeing access to childcare facilities for 30% of children under the age of three.
For this reason, I am very happy that today's ECOFIN Council has approved the possibility for all Member States to cut VAT on children's services.
However, I would also like to thank Commissioner Špidla, who has, in fact, made it clear that the Commission still regards it as important for us to achieve the Barcelona objectives with regard to childcare.
Many students of child development, like Maria Montessori, have noted the need a young child has for the presence of his or her mother, or mother substitute.
Many of them have also noted a watershed in a child's development at two years and nine months, after which it becomes safe for a child to spend periods of time away from his or her primary care-giver.
However, as I said, women work, and we must do our best to at least ensure that if someone other than the primary care-giver is taking care of the child below the age of two years nine months, that it is someone who can give the child as nurturing a care as possible.
Children are our future.
For better or for worse, we are shaping Europe's future by how we raise our children.
Let us agree that the Barcelona objectives should form part of the national policy of the state on citizens' welfare. (PT) Almost seven years after the Barcelona European Council, the majority of Member States are a long way off achieving the objectives that were set out.
Let the attitude of European citizens to the family and to children define our level of culture and civilisation. (EL) Madam President, the European Commission's effort to help mothers actively participate in the labour market by promoting the application of everything decided in Barcelona in 2002 is noteworthy.
The logic of EU policies relating to the cycle of life assumes a special significance insofar as it takes specific account of the active categories of men and women aged between 15 and 49 in order for them to be able to fulfil their particular role in resolving the demographic crisis.
Someone raised the point that, for example, infants and toddlers up to two years old need the presence of their mother, father or grandmother or simply a nanny every day, but the one thing these children definitely do not need for their healthy development is a childcare facility.
The situation is quite different for children of pre-school age, of course, and here the Barcelona objectives are quite appropriate.
It is clear that Estonia cannot achieve the Barcelona objectives, at least not as regards children up to the age of three, but the Commission's appeal is very welcome, and will help towards solving the problem.
It is an approach for this century. (RO) According to the European Commission's report in October 2008 on implementing the Barcelona objectives and the care framework for pre-school children, Member States have not met the objectives set by European Union leaders.
increase the involvement of national governments in this problem, 2.
Many have spoken about the economic crisis.
An investment in quality childcare will help families and children alike in providing families - mostly mothers - with an opportunity to work, by giving children the chance to a high-quality, nurturing environment akin to the home.
Childcare helps families and society as a whole, and it can help the most vulnerable children too.
I would also like to say that during the current crisis, it is important for us to invest in education and health, which are practical investments in our future. (PL) Madam President, nurseries are an evil.
They may be a necessary evil, but they are an evil.
Member of Commission. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for what was, in my opinion, an exceptionally important and profound debate.
Concerning the question of how the Commission will support the Barcelona criteria, it can be done through the structural funds.
Based on the so-called Barcelona objectives, which the Member States accepted in 2002 concerning childcare facilities, by 2010, Member States should guarantee child care for at least 90% of children between the age of 3 and compulsory school attendance age and at least 33% of children under the age of 3.
