Situation of the world financial system and its consequences on the European markets (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation of the world financial system and its consequences on the European markets.
The US financial sector is in turmoil and the US authorities have been forced to intervene more and more heavily to avert a full-scale crisis.
The French Presidency is convinced that the events of the past few days make a strong and united Europe even more necessary on the economic and financial stage.
In the European Central Bank the Economic and Monetary Union has a powerful central bank that has been able to intervene promptly, resolutely and effectively when tensions have been at their highest, in close cooperation with the other major central banks.
The Union's financial system remains robust overall and there is therefore no call for this type of measure, but we must remain vigilant, and nothing can be ruled out in the name of whatever ideology.
The Union requires a more effective and more integrated supervisory system in order to be better equipped to tackle financial crises.
The time has come to take important decisions with regard to the organisation of our financial system, its place within the European economy and its role, which should remain the financing of businesses and individuals.
We also propose to hold an international meeting before the end of the year involving the G8 and their financial regulatory authorities.
The US plan announced by Secretary Paulson last week is a good initiative.
I should say that we are talking about a US plan, adapted for the circumstances in the US, where - it should be recalled - the crisis originated and where the financial sector has been most severely affected.
To do this, we first have to understand how we arrived at this point.
The interconnection of global financial markets, the high level of leverage and the use of innovative and complex financial techniques and instruments, which were only poorly understood, caused these risks to spread across the international financial system on an unprecedented scale.
Leading indicators on economic activity point to a marked deceleration in the underlying growth momentum both in the EU and in the euro area.
At the same time, for this year inflation forecasts have been revised up to 3.8% in the EU and 3.6% in the euro area.
Measures to strengthen competition in retail and energy markets and improve the functioning of our labour markets would be particularly valuable at this juncture.
Inevitably, we will need to overcome some resistance by Member States to agree common action, yet the consensus we reached during the last informal ECOFIN meeting in Nice should be deepened and developed.
The fact is that the market regulated the problem of the investment banks very quickly on its own.
Now, in October 2008, the Commission may well present proposals, but the IOSCO is already saying that we should not deviate from the Securities and Exchange Commission and US rules, for otherwise the international financial system will be disrupted.
We must do what we think is right, and the Americans can then follow us.
What the Council has achieved so far through its closer cooperation with the European supervisory authorities is lamentable.
The market has regulated it, but the US taxpayer is footing the bill.
Joaquín Almunia has presented a very sound analysis.
The costs of this devastation are included in the 700 billion which the US taxpayers now have to invest in rescuing the major banks and insurance companies.
The amateurism of governance in the US is apparent from the fact that even in this massive crisis, it is these major corporations which are being rescued, costing ordinary taxpayers more than 700 billion dollars from the US budget.
In a debate last November about the European Union's role in globalisation, I made the following comment: 'The Wild West capitalism that dominates the financial markets is threatening entire economies, including the US economy now, and needs international rules.
Of course, we must act swiftly, but we also must act in the area which is closest to my heart and the hearts of my colleagues here in the European Parliament.
However, food scarcity means hunger in the world, and if we have a system which makes it possible for hunger in some regions of the world to generate profits in others, our 700 billion dollar rescue package will not help us.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the global financial crisis has spread through the markets with unforeseeable consequences.
Above all, we need to restore confidence in a free and open market.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Madam President, the President of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, recently said that, when the market stabilises, we will not return to business as usual, but instead we will experience a new normality.
To ensure the stability of our markets in the future, we must implement structural and systematic reforms and be prepared to act quickly.
The effects on banking and the political response to this initial trauma will not be known for some time.
However, we now have to face up to ensuring that the new financial reality that emerges from the other end of this crisis is a strong and healthy one.
To emerge from the quagmire of the crisis, it is also necessary, for both localised and global economic health, to show there is sufficient capital in the finance system.
The worldwide financial crisis has reached my little bank.
Danish financial consultant Kim Valentin suggests a rescue fund financed by the banks themselves.
I think the biggest mistake the European Commission could have made would have been to think that more regulation is always the right answer.
Improvements should be based, in the first place, on existing legislation and legal bases.
Since 2000 we have gone through a serious overhaul of our financial services laws, and we have updated many of the relevant regulations already.
The consequences to the European economy, both in the financial economy and also the real economy, would have been much more severe without the very good delivery of the ECB in terms of liquidity.
As for the roadmap that was drawn up in October and December 2007, I have it here and I have checked it off, point by point.
Just remember what Lamfalussy, Gramlich, Volcker and Buffett said years ago.
In Europe, in my view, it is the small, new EU Member States that are the most vulnerable in this situation.
Mistaken structural and taxation policies at a time of high economic growth are now creating obvious economic and social threats in most of these states, including in my own, Latvia.
The large volume of domestic private loans in euros from banks in euro area states, the large proportion of non-resident money in the banking sector and the rapid increase towards the levels of European average wages expressed in euros may lead to a revaluation of national currencies.
In that case, long-term repayment to financial institutions in the euro area may become a new burden for the citizens and businesses of those Member States.
The answer, we are repeatedly told, is that we need more regulation to make the financial sector work better.
The markets have failed and these failures have prompted interventions which would have delighted Keynes himself.
If the markets have failed, then we must correct what has failed in the markets; in other words, we must do something.
I would remind the Commission and the Council that, while the liquidity problems can be solved by the European Central Bank, the solvency problems are something which directly affects you: the Council, the Commission and the Member States.
This means that we must re-establish some basic principles: transparency in products, in companies and in markets; responsibility of managers; confidence between the financial economy and the real economy, and the central role of politics.
The Rasmussen report, which this Parliament adopted yesterday by a very large majority, makes specific proposals on the risks of excessive leverage, lack of transparency and conflicts of interest, but this report stems from work begun by the Socialist Group years before the crisis began in 2007.
The own-initiative report by Ieke van den Burg and Daniel Dăianu takes the same line.
The European Union is a major partner in the international context and I congratulate Commissioner Almunia on his announcements today; but will Commissioner McCreevy agree with these?
Nevertheless, I would like to encourage a broader view of events and to recall that Parliament, as early as the beginning of this year, put forward some valid proposals which were not accepted by the Council and the Commission.
It is true that, in due course, we will have to review our regulatory defences, but this cannot and should not be done precipitately, in the heat of the crisis.
The most vital thing, which we must bring about immediately, is the restoration of confidence.
It is now up to the political leaders of the highest level - a summit indeed - of the free-market economies to come together - no excuses, no holding back, no arguments - to take full responsibility for restoring confidence. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson called the past few weeks a 'humbling' time for the United States as he unveiled his rescue package of up to 700 billion dollars for the country's crippled financial sector.
The situation in the US is indeed alarming.
It is unlikely to be resurrected very quickly in its original form.
The economy is global, meaning that the rules must also be global.
It would be foolish to think that these matters can be resolved in a few minutes. (DE) Mr President, over the last few days, we have seen great turbulence in the US financial system, and that is putting it mildly.
In my view, therefore, even sound and reliable regulations will not rule out unpleasant surprises in future. (PT) Mr President, the current financial crisis, which in the short term will be economic and cannot fail to be social, perhaps also political, could have been anticipated because it was predictable.
The attitude of the European Central Bank, which is insisting on applying remedies that the current disease is rejecting, the blindly optimistic autism of certain members of the Ecofin Council, who just 15 days ago expressed surprised at the dimensions of the crisis, and the attitude of Commissioner McCreevy, who is proposing changing something so that everything stays the same, are unacceptable.
The Commission now has a responsibility to use all its instruments and to put pressure on the Member States to create new instruments.
The same holds for global financial markets.
Paulson &amp; Co has placed bets on four high street banks, including HBOS, which was forced to agree a rescue takeover by Lloyds TSB last week after a precipitous collapse in its shares.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, I would like to thank Members for this exciting debate.
My second belief is that Europe must act within a framework of enhanced international cooperation.
It is true that we must address the issue of salaries and the problem of profits linked to cyclical market activities.
It is clear that this is not just an economic and financial crisis, but also one of ethics and responsibility.
It is a crisis of economic ethics and concerns all actors and political leaders, whatever their leanings.
Even if Europe is less affected, it is still important for us to send out messages of confidence.
If they were not global, we would not be affected in the way we are, so we cannot forget that our leadership, our initiatives and our decisions should be followed by a high degree of consensus around our positions with the other partners and the other players.
As I have already said in my introductory remarks - and I agree with the chair's remarks - what I mean by reaction in the short term is to fully implement the ECOFIN road map as soon as possible - and we are on track, Mrs Berès.
In this Parliament and in the Council, the adoption as soon as possible of the Solvency II Directive is also very important.
But beyond the EU's borders the Financial Stability Forum needs to continue working very intensively; it is a very important institution at this moment - the level 3 committees of the Lamfalussy framework.
I think we all agree that we need to establish a more intense relationship at all levels with the US authorities, not only in our task as the Commission or the executive branches, but also Parliament with Congress, which is now a key actor in the solution of the particular problems in the USA.
We are living in an economic and monetary union.
One last word: this was not in the road map but will be on the agenda of the next ECOFIN, and the Commission will fully agree with this issue.
Only one out of the 27 Member States reacted positively to this recommendation from the Commission point of view.
The debate is closed.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - The US financial system has been jolted in the last few days as Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy and Merrill Lynch, fearing a similar-type collapse, agreed to be taken over by the Bank of America.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 4.4 % on 15 September, and another 4.1 % two days later.
The stock of AIG has plunged more than 90 %, from USD 72 last year to USD 2.05.
They have occurred a week after the US federal government seized control of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the giant mortgage companies.
in writing. - (PL) I should like to draw the attention of the House to the following issues. 1.
The US Government and the Federal Reserve have so far allocated a sum close to USD 1 trillion to combating the effects of the financial crisis.
This suggests that the current crisis is comparable to the great crash of 1929. 2.
In addition, the ECB made available around USD 750 billion to improve liquidity, whilst the Bank of England released approximately USD 80 billion.
This will result in recession in the US economy, which means negative economic growth.
