Illegal immigration, external action of the European Union and Frontex (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on illegal immigration, external action of the European Union and Frontex.
The European Union must develop an effective migration policy and legislation and at the same time continue its efforts to combat illegal immigration.
One of the most important aspects of the struggle against illegal immigration is effective control of the European Union's external borders.
A great achievement in this field is without doubt the recent inclusion of nine Member States in the Schengen area.
As part of those efforts, in March of this year the Slovenian Presidency hosted a conference at Ministerial level on the future challenges for management of the European Union's external borders.
Regarding the directive's proposal concerning sanctions against employers of citizens from third countries who are illegally in the European Union, the Council is waiting for a proposal for changes and amendments from the European Parliament.
The purpose of the global approach adopted by the European Council in December 2005 was to initiate a comprehensive discussion on migration policy, as well as strengthen and deepen international cooperation primarily with the countries of origin and transit, and establish a partnership with those countries.
The budget of the Frontex agency has practically doubled in 2008 compared with 2007.
This year it totals EUR 70 million, including more than EUR 31 million for operations at the EU's maritime borders.
As regards the operations in these high-risk zones, Frontex has organised four large-scale operations: Poseidon, Hermes, Nautilus and Hera.
It is also important to point out that an agreement has been reached between the Member States and Frontex on the procedures and conditions for using the technical equipment contained in the Central Record of Available Technical Equipment (CRATE) database.
In its report on the future development of Frontex, the Commission emphasised that cooperation with third countries is a key element in improving the joint operations carried out by the agency in the long term.
Finally, the Commission sees 2008 as a test year.
Frontex is only part of the solution - it is a deterrent, as the Commission said, in the fight against illegal migration, and this year will be a trial year for Frontex.
As Commissioner Barrot rightly said, this year we have doubled Frontex's budget, we have given it a rapid intervention team and it also appears that it has enough means to carry out its missions.
The Mediterranean has become the largest open-air common grave anywhere.
Member States underlined the importance of European solidarity in burden-sharing as the founding principles.
We therefore need to take urgent action: the 2004 Directive must be revised in the light of these results.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Madam President, the European Union and its institutions always claim that the struggle for human rights is of key importance.
It is also a good sign that Frontex has been given the green light to open negotiations on cooperation agreements with a number of departure or transit countries to ensure joint action against illegal immigration.
From that point of view, the 53 000 arrests that the Commission proposed a few months ago will therefore not do much more than 'cure the symptom'.
I am talking about not only the flexible visa policy and the lax tracing and repatriation policy, but also about the irresponsible waves of regularisation in some Member States, which have been an enormous draw.
You might therefore ask whether Frontex is not just having to act as a lightning conductor to appease the citizens of Europe. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, Jacques, ladies and gentlemen, we are currently examining very significant texts that should lead to a real change and, dare I say, a real evolution in the management of migratory flows.
We need to look at the management of our external borders and Frontex's role in that regard.
Frontex has a clear mission: to protect our borders in order to protect our fellow citizens.
EU external action on immigration must henceforth be more active and more visible and focus on much more relevant countries, primarily Guinea-Conakry.
In addition, Member States must become more heavily involved in joint Frontex actions.
I also support the central role that Frontex must play in controlling and monitoring the external borders.
However, I would warn the Council and the Member States that these objectives will only be achieved if we equip this agency with the necessary human and financial resources, which until very recently was unfortunately not at all the case.
Increasing cooperation between countries is very important.
In order to stop illegal immigration and immigration in general, we cannot allow for human rights to be forfeited.
I daresay we are, bearing in mind its meagre technical resources and restricted competence.
There is work for them in our Member States.
We need a different policy; a policy that is open to all these people.
However, what I want to know is what Frontex hopes to do, for example, in the countries of transit?
Frontex must of course be viewed in the context of a comprehensive migration strategy which on the one hand manages legal immigration but, on the other, combats illegal immigration.
It was the Slovenian Presidency which, in March this year, organised the conference on the future challenges of controlling the European Union's external borders, and all or most of the issues mentioned in today's debate were a topic of that conference, which was conducted at Ministerial level.
The Return Directive is an important aspect of the fight against illegal immigration.
Mrs Saks mentioned that the Member States do not want the immigrant quota to be forced on them from outside or from the top.
A very difficult debate on this topic is still taking place.
Ladies and gentlemen, let me assure you that your opinions count and that we will bear them in mind when we continue this debate.
Written Statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) The European Union's external borders, either land or sea borders, protect all Member States from possible threats caused by illegal immigration, trafficking and organized crime.
The instruments proposed by the European Commission in the development of the Frontex Agency, namely state-of-the-art border surveillance systems, technical equipment and rapid intervention teams, are undoubtedly opportune.
Moreover, it is necessary to take action not only on the European Union borders, but also on the borders of the countries neighbouring the European Union.
