&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 9 June 2005. &#160;&#160; Before proceeding to the approval of the amendments to the order of business that have been presented, I would like to make a statement on behalf of the Conference of Presidents.
As a result of this and for half a century, the citizens of those countries were deprived of their human rights and suffered terror and deportations.
This is not the first time that the European Parliament has talked about this, it is not the first time that this Parliament has remembered the past of these countries, which today are members of the European Union.
In 1983, 22 years ago now, this Parliament expressed its condemnation of the occupation of States by other States.
And at these difficult times for the European Union, right now, we must remember that the accession of those Baltic states to the Union has contributed and will continue to contribute to promoting the objectives of freedom and prosperity for the citizens.
Today we must express our pride in the fact that we can work together on the construction of a united Europe that shares common values.
The report by Mr Gargani on the Statute for Members of the European Parliament will be dealt with immediately after the joint debate on the European Council and the work of the Luxembourg Presidency, during which the President-in-Office of the Council and Mr Barroso will speak.
The report by Mr Cashman on the Community Code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders is included following the report by Mr Gargani and will be put to the vote tomorrow without amendments.
The recommendation for second reading by Othmar Karas on the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies was approved on 20 June.
The time limit for the presentation of amendments or for rejection of the common position will end this afternoon at 4.00 p.m.
The vote on it is not even announced in tomorrow’s agenda.
There has already been one irregular vote in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and, at a time when the EU is in the midst of its direst crisis, it would send completely the wrong message if we were to adopt a Members’ Statute while accumulating privileges on the quiet.
I therefore call upon you to avail yourself of Rule 132(2) and take appropriate precautions, so that Mr Blair, the British Prime Minister, can talk about a programme of savings without being compromised by this House adopting a new package of privileges at the same time. &#160;&#160; Having studied paragraph 2 of Rule 132 with the assistance and advice of the services of the House, I can see no reason to grant your request. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on the European Council report and Commission statement – European Council meeting (Brussels, 16-17 June 2005) and the Council statement – Work of the Luxembourg Presidency.
We reformed the Stability and Growth Pact, thereby ending a long period of uncertainty which had the potential to trigger a profound rift among the euro-zone Member States.
To come back to the Lisbon strategy: we are changing the way it is applied.
Member States, through national reform programmes, will take greater ownership of the strategy and thus become answerable to their national parliaments in the best national tradition of European texts and European commitment.
I take a degree of pride in that decision, because I knew at the beginning of the year that it was a vexed and controversial one.
I take some pride in having managed to assist Americans and Europeans to develop a common focus and strategy for Iraq.
Mr President, in December 2004, under the Dutch Presidency – something we should perhaps not forget – the future Luxembourg Presidency was instructed to reach political agreement on the financial perspectives by the end of June 2005.
On 12 January 2005, only three weeks later, I was standing before you in Strasbourg assessing the chances of reaching an agreement.
Others claim that the disagreement is not a failure for Europe because agreements on the financial perspectives are always achieved at the eleventh hour.
That is now a given, and you will see that any future compromise will only differ fractionally from that level of expenditure.
In its last proposal for a final compromise, the Luxembourg Presidency upheld the principle of the British rebate: our last proposal was not that it should be frozen.
Initially, the Presidency had proposed freezing the British rebate at EUR&#160;4.7 billion, which would have enabled us to adjust the net contribution of the Netherlands by around EUR 1 billion, and to lighten the burdens of Germany and Sweden, in particular, which were felt to be excessive.
If the Netherlands had been granted that EUR 1 billion, Germany would have been forced to pay it to the Dutch, because the United Kingdom had not cut its rebate sufficiently.
I wanted you to know this; I did not ask Germany to pay it because Germany, compared to its initial proposal, had already made a huge step towards the position of the other Member States.
The Presidency’s final proposal, for a level of EUR 5.5 billion, would not have enabled all of that to be achieved, but at least it would have enabled the UK to cofinance cohesion policies in the new Member States, as normal, with the exception of the common agricultural policy, on which, as we know, the UK has its own particular opinions.
This general reflection should lead to a reform of all aspects of the budget’. ‘All aspects of the budget’ also include the common agricultural policy.
That was the decision proposed by the Presidency: the British rebate to be maintained for the 15; the British contribution to help finance cohesion policies in the new Member States, but with the common agricultural policy in those States excluded; a Commission proposal by the end of 2008 on a restructuring of the budget; the proposal to be examined by the Council with possible changes to the financial perspectives for the later years, namely from 2009 onwards.
Whereas, in 2006, EUR 42 billion will be spent on direct aid and market measures, the Presidency’s proposal would have meant, for the 15-State Europe, a cut in that figure to EUR 35 billion in 2013.
And even in the Europe of 27 members, in other words including our Romanian and Bulgarian friends, the CAP would have been reduced by over 5% in the period in question.
In October 1985, when I presented my first budget to Parliament here – the one for 1986 – agriculture accounted for 68% of the European budget.
Finally, a 2% increase in cohesion policies for the 27 countries, with a greater concentration on the new Member States.
Then we come, Mr President, to a comparison of the research budget with that of the common agricultural policy, and vice versa.
The public research policies of the Member States and of the European Union, if the national policies had remained at today’s levels, would have represented EUR 524.5 billion for the period 2007–2013, far more than the common agricultural policy.
If all decisions had been respected and if the Presidency’s proposals had been accepted, research budgets would have been EUR 785 billion – I am referring to the public share of research budgets – compared to EUR 305 billion for the CAP.
We shall have to find an agreement enabling us to introduce the new policies on good terms in the new Member States from 2007 onwards.
Our view – not because we are pig-headed, stubborn or short-sighted – was that the Constitutional Treaty was not the main issue, but rather that the Constitutional Treaty was the response to many of the problems of Europe’s citizens with the European Union.
For my part, I should like this appeal, which was the appeal of the European Council, to be heard and for there to be a longer period of reflection, explanation, debate and, if necessary, disagreement throughout Europe – in the Member States who have still to ratify, in those which have already ratified and in the two which rejected the Constitutional Treaty.
We need to debate Europe, and I want the institutions of the Union, the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the Member States, civil society, unions, political parties and national parliaments all to join in that vast debate.
The free trade area on one side and political union on the other.
There are those who believe that Europe as it stands has already gone too far, and those, like me, who think it has still not gone far enough.
But I was considerably reassured to read that those who had thought, after the latest European Council, that there had been a clash, a conflict between two visions of Europe, were making a big mistake.
When this concept has been achieved, it will appear to have been an altogether natural development and one which rules out any possibility of going back – and supporters of the free trade area would view it as a backward step – to political union.
It is as simple as that, a matter of saying yes or no to the question I have just asked.
At the end of this Presidency, Mr President, I wanted to remind you, this time without quoting myself, that at the outset I had insisted on the need to respect institutional rules, to respect what is often referred to as the institutional triangle, which I still consider to offer a number of benefits.
We often disagreed, either because your proposals were not sensible, or because the sensible proposals of the Presidency were not accepted by all Member States and therefore could not obtain your agreement, an agreement which, however, was spontaneously forthcoming whenever the Presidency referred its initiatives to you prior to submitting them to the other Member States.
Today, the European Parliament has reached maturity.
I talk to Parliament and, when I leave Parliament, I talk to groups of visitors.
I must say that it is a great pleasure to work with Parliament, both in public sessions and, above all, in committees.
I shall be very sorry not to be able to come to the European Parliament so regularly in future to participate in this great European debate, both here in this Chamber and elsewhere.
Our generation does not have the right to undo the achievements of prior generations.
First of all, we succeeded in adopting our strategic objectives for the EU over the coming five years.
Today, those same broad guiding principles in terms of prosperity, solidarity and security provide us with a framework, a framework shared by all the institutions of the European Union.
This reform has neither weakened nor relaxed the pact.
However, the greatest success of the Luxembourg Presidency, from the point of view of the Commission’s priorities, may have been the relaunch of the Lisbon Strategy during the Spring European Council.
This was a step forward, not only for the institutions and governments, but also for all European citizens.
That is why we think that we must, all of us, the European institutions, increase our efforts in areas that directly affect the lives of our citizens.
During the last European Council, we primarily discussed two questions: what should we do during this period following the referenda in the Netherlands and France and what should we do with regard to the financial perspectives?
First of all, the debate on the future of Europe.
You doubtless remember that the Commission said, just on the eve of the European Council, that it, for its part, wanted to launch this debate by going, if necessary, and this is what we are going to do, to all the Member States of the EU to debate and to listen, not only to the governments, which is certainly important, but also to the parliaments, the social partners and young people in these countries.
We are very proud that the European Council has given us a mandate to have a special role in this enterprise, in this debate that must be organised in each Member State, but that must also be held at European level.
We must launch this debate without being afraid of any of the subjects, even those that are more difficult and more complex for the institutions.
We are sure that the European Parliament will have a contribution, a very important contribution, to make to this debate and we, the European Commission, want to work with you because we think it is necessary to build a new consensus in Europe.
Unfortunately, discussions on the budget have seldom brought out the best in the Member States and, sadly, last week it was no different.
There are some fundamentally different views and some clear national interests, but this in itself is not so unusual.
What makes the situation especially delicate is that this ‘no solution’ for the financial perspective comes after two ‘noes’ in two national referenda.
I regret that, during the European Council, no leaders were able to show a true spirit of compromise and solidarity on that very important occasion.
But it would be wrong to give the impression that we have gone nowhere as a result of last week.
The committed work of the Luxembourg presidency over the last six months has brought us a long way.
If we do not reach agreement, then there is a risk of paralysis which will have a very negative effect on our policies and on all the Member States, particularly the new Member States.
I want to underline the very constructive approach taken by the new Member States.
The Commission is ready to work with this presidency and all the Member States.
This is particularly true of those policies aimed at renewed economic dynamism.
The common agricultural policy was, of course, maintained in accordance with the agreement made three years ago, but there were major cuts in the areas of competitiveness, growth, innovation and research.
The Commission will go on with its work and will pursue the goal of reaching a balanced agreement with the Member States.
This is why, even before the European Council, the Commission proposed a review clause.
This means that, as we do not know exactly what the world will be like in 2013, we should not have an overall debate before we approve the financial perspective.
What we cannot use now is an overall debate on priorities as a reason or pretext for not reaching an agreement on the financial perspective.
However, at the same time, it is true that we should engage in a serious debate about the reform of the Community budget.
Today the Commission took important decisions on a Green Paper on energy efficiency and a new regime for the sugar markets.
However, it is important now to engage the Council, all partners and all institutions and to move in the same direction.
We have seen the endorsement of the new integrated guidelines for growth and employment and an action plan to implement The Hague Programme for freedom, security and justice.
These two results address our key objectives of prosperity and security and the mainstream concerns of our citizens.
The European Council also approved guiding principles for sustainable development.
There was also the very important decision to confirm at the highest level – at a European Union summit – the decisions taken by the development ministers following a Commission proposal about our commitment to overseeing development aid and our commitment to Africa.
Sooner or later this clarification had to come and, let us face it, we now have that opportunity.
We are closer to agreement on the financial perspective than many people realise.
I call on all the parties to show less nationalistic rhetoric and to engage in a truly European solution.
The fact remains that both the Luxembourg presidency in general and the European Council in particular have achieved much of which we can be proud.
We hope the day will come when we will again be able to join together in rejoicing over successes, and that is now a task for all of us.
It is because that is such a tremendous thing that we must, even now, believe in our continent’s future.
We find ourselves, though, in a twofold crisis of confidence; one that involves various protagonists in the European Council and has been building up for several years, and a crisis as regards many people’s confidence in the European Union’s policymakers.
We want a European Union that is strong, effective and democratic, and all those who want to make it no more than a free trade zone within Europe will have a fight on their hands.
Our Group wants no part of any such thing; we want a strong, effective and democratic European Union, one that enables us to defend our interests in the world.
Where the Constitutional Treaty is concerned, we must be self-critical.
The referendum in Luxembourg is now, no doubt, going to go ahead on 10&#160;July, and I wish the President-in-Office every success in it.
If I may turn to the European Union’s budget, we find the failure to achieve a result regrettable, but we – including Reimer Böge, who is present in the Chamber – can take some pride in the fact that this House has succeeded in putting together a proposal, and we call on the Heads of State or Government to take it as their guide and to seek to make the reforms that are needed.
This Financial Perspective is needed – and I say this with the utmost seriousness – for those countries in Central and Eastern Europe that joined the European Union on 1&#160;May 2004, and that must be able to rely on our common solidarity in planning how they are to develop their weakest regions.
We have heard a speech that was extraordinary not only by reason of the character of the man delivering it, but also by reason of its extraordinary frankness.
Europe is indeed in a crisis situation, but then so are its Heads of State or Government.
It became clear from last weekend’s summit that we can now put a name to what has caused Europe to lose out: the particularism of those Heads of State or Government who believe that the interests of all are served when each thinks only of himself.
We have lessons to learn from that, and one important one is that we should start by noting that, of the three institutions, two have done their homework; the Commission produced its proposal for the Financial Perspective, and Parliament decided on its position, while the Council has shown itself incapable of coming to an agreement on it.
Let me point out that two of the institutions that participate in the trialogue have done what they had to do.
We also know, of course, that we need money in order to do these things, and that it follows that money has to be reassigned.
Nobody will be able to make the Treaty of Nice serve as the basis for a free trade zone; it may be inadequate, but it has taken the process of integration far too far for that to be possible, and if you want to defend the deepening of Europe, this House will always be right alongside you.
In the realm of practical politics, we in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament have produced a five-point plan showing how you can help get the Working Time Directive and the Services Directive adopted as social – rather than as anti-social – legislation.
Your final summit was doomed from the moment France voted to reject the Constitution.
At least in Greek tragedy the audience is permitted to understand what is happening.
I suspect that you, President-in-Office, through your passionate commitment to the European cause, which I welcome, were unable to stand back and look objectively at the impact on your presidency of the week of 29&#160;May 2005.
The insistence by some Member States on one&#160;per&#160;cent of GNI would deprive us of the Lisbon investment, as indeed your final proposal might have done.
There is another way of setting limits: that which distinguishes those who have the European spirit and those who have not.’ President-in-Office, the Franco-German motor of European integration on which your presidency relied is kaput.
The Union must recognise that it has moved on from reconciliation and security of food supply to other demands of a rapidly changing world: a world that will not wait for Europe.
Luxembourg and its Prime Minister have steered the Union well during these turbulent months but that has not helped to restore confidence among the French and Dutch electorate, or to revive the European economic machine, or to put positive initiatives in the pipeline, of the sort that people dream about.
We regret, Mr&#160;Juncker, that the last action of your Presidency has been to put forward a genuinely unacceptable budget proposal, unacceptable because it follows the same failing logic of an unsustainable reduction of the Union’s budget.
My group therefore believes that the failure to reach an unsatisfactory agreement on the financial perspectives is a positive result and considers it important that the Council has given itself time to reflect on the Constitution, without, however, putting an end to the ratification process for those who wish for it to continue.
Then, Mr&#160;Barroso, we also have to do ‘something European’, in the words of a famous Italian film director, something quite different from the Bolkestein Directive, software patenting, the arbitrary and secretive authorisation of new GMOs, or a bit of hot air on sustainable development, whereas in reality – alas – environmental policy is becoming an increasingly marginal issue in your Commission.
Reflection on the future of Europe and its legitimacy will be made much easier if Europe has something to offer in the months to come: REACH, an action on climate change, the tangible redefinition of social Europe, the working time directive, serious attention paid to the Millennium Round commitments.
All of this is perfectly feasible and will help us to revive the Constitution.
In my 26 years of parliamentary experience, this is a first for me.
I note with interest that, three weeks after the success of the ‘no’ vote to the ex-draft Constitutional Treaty, the truth is gradually pushing its way to the fore, both with regard to the demands expressed by these votes and with regard to their scope, which goes far beyond the two countries directly concerned.
The commentary adds, and again I quote, that ‘the rejection of Turkey’s membership of the EU was mentioned spontaneously by only 6% of people who voted “no”’.
The message is therefore clear: ‘yes’ to Europe, including an enlarged Europe, but ‘no’ to the liberal direction it is taking.
Lessons are starting to be drawn from these great manifestations of the citizens’ crisis of conscience with regard to Europe as it is, including by the European Trade Union Confederation, which has just called on the 25 to take into consideration, and I quote, ‘fear of lower social standards and neo-liberal policies’ in order to regain the confidence of European citizens.
In this regard, Mr&#160;Juncker, having worked so hard to avoid such a deplorable outcome, found the right words to denounce the main culprit for this fiasco.
Beyond that, it is the whole club of six, these countries which have, for months, been consumed by their obsession to freeze budgets at 1% of European revenues, that, in my view, incarnates a narrow concept of Europe, with no relation to our declared ambitions.
Mr&#160;Schulz appears to be responding positively to this idea, but in a very institutional context.
It seems to me that three of the conditions for the success of such a debate are, first, that it should be free from any pressure; next, that it should be open to actual citizens and not to institutional representatives of civil society; and, finally, that it should result in a new treaty that our fellow citizens can support this time.
I would add that the specific decisions that will be taken at European level during this pause for reflection must also demonstrate, in the eyes of our fellow citizens, our ability to listen to their message and our determination to take it fully into account.
However, we will discuss that tomorrow in the presence of our next Presidency, which will clearly be different from the outgoing one.
The great debate on the future of Europe is getting off to a good start. &#160;&#160; I have often praised the Luxembourg Presidency.
The Constitution is dead.
We shall then be able to obtain a practical, brief and easily understandable cooperation agreement able to be adopted in referenda on the same two days in all the EU countries.
If the watchwords are transparency, democracy and proximity to the people, we shall also be happy to do so.
A new opinion poll shows that 80% of Danes support the proposal to reverse the burden of proof in matters of transparency and that 79% want each country to be able to elect its own Commissioner.
With reference, however, to what has been said and taking into account also other negative attitudes towards the European Union revealed in opinion surveys, undoubtedly the greatest responsibility lies with the politicians of the Member States.
Too much is demanded of the European Union and Member States have been prepared to invest too little in order for the European Union to go from success to success.
In truth, these two visions are two sides of the same coin – without economic and also social integration it will not be possible to build a sustainable edifice of political integration.
That, to my mind, is the clearest lesson of the last two referenda.
It approved the Lisbon Strategy, a strategy that means a lot more than integration of the internal market.
The Lisbon agenda, which has been a blatant example of the European Union’s indecisiveness in the past five years, must become an example of success and cooperation in the future.
The concluding words of the agreement on the Lisbon Strategy have demonstrated that the Council has partners who are engaged in the future of the European Union, and who will be able to find a basis for important tasks – security and cooperation, the enlargement of the European Union and cohesion policy. &#160;&#160; Madam President, it was Bertolt Brecht who quipped that political leaders should simply choose a different people when the people vote incorrectly.
My party, the , which is the largest party in Flanders, being opposed to the European superstate of which the Constitution is the groundplan, was not even allowed to take part in the radio and television debates that were organised on the subject.
The conduct of the media and political elites was much like that of the pigs in George Orwell’s ‘Animal Farm’; all animals are equal, but some are more equal than others.
Europe should really start observing the principle of subsidiarity if it wants to count on the public’s understanding.
If the voice of the Dutch and French people calls a halt to the undemocratic process of Turkish accession, in respect of which bureaucracy is flying in the face of what Europeans want, the end of the European Constitution might well spell the beginning of a fresh and different Europe where the will of the people is taken into consideration. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the summit that brought the Luxembourg Presidency to a close did not yield the success for which most of us in this House had hoped.
When individual Heads of State or Government are so arrogant, presumptuous and motivated by pure self-interest as to be prepared to jeopardise the progress of the European project and the success of enlargement, then we cannot expect what comes out of the summit to move Europe any further forward.
I do not propose to enlarge on what consequences this may have for the future of the European Union, but what I will say is that, if a few European Heads of Government want to put on the sort of performance that we saw last week, then we will not be able to win back the trust of those who, in France and the Netherlands, voted against the European Constitution.
I am ashamed of our inability, over a year after enlargement, to motivate people between Tallinn and Ljubljana and to persuade them that their sacrifices, their achievements and their endurance over the last 15&#160;years were anything other than futile.
For my part, I can do no other than hope that the changes that this continent will undergo and experience over the years to come will show no trace of the pettiness and egoism that caused the last European Council to fail. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Mr&#160;Barroso, Mr&#160;Juncker, ladies and gentlemen, all Presidencies preside, but do not decide.
The Luxembourg Presidency has been able to move the EU forward regarding subjects as varied as increased commitment to the Millennium Goals, more targeted support for rural development and notable advances with regard to police cooperation and to security at external borders, etc.
Very few leaders have a true political vision of the future of Europe.
Politics has sometimes led me to oppose my Prime Minister, but I sympathised with him when he declared his shame faced with the mean-minded arrogance of some of his counterparts in the rich countries.
There are those who push for greater political integration and those who simply want one huge market.
The Luxembourg Presidency has done its best to move Europe forward, and it deserves well of Europe.
The economy must continue to serve social well-being, and solidarity must be the keyword of European politics.
The applause of this House has shown that, among the cries of the Eurosceptics and the silence of the extreme pro-Europeans, we have encountered in you political intelligence and the vision of the greatest pro-Europeans.
The contradiction between the tasks that we would like to give to Europe – in terms of global order, the economy and research – and the negotiations on the budget that Mr&#160;Juncker has outlined to us is therefore unsustainable.
There will no longer be a Europe in the global disorder, if this Parliament and the countries ready to do so do not open a debate on enhanced cooperation on foreign policy and common security.
I am addressing the President of Parliament and all of us: the referenda and the crisis involve us and affect us, but they have never questioned the work carried out by this Parliament in the constitutional triangle.
After years in which discussion has taken place on Europe for the people, it has to be us who must learn to communicate with the people.
I should like to conclude by saying that this Parliament, always orderly, always working according to the rules and the schedule, must also demonstrate that it will not carry on with business as usual, and that we have understood both the unease of the people and the unsatisfactory responses of many governments.
We will try to remember that the Commission will certainly be the custodian of the treaties, but that we are the representatives of the European people. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to start by thanking the Luxembourg presidency for the good and pragmatic work it has done.
As far as the new direction for European policy is concerned – and I see Mr Barroso looks to be already on the edge of his seat with anticipation – it is my view that, having presided over the Commission for a year, you really should think about to what extent your Commission’s decisions on Bolkestein, the Working Time Directive, REACH and climate change have helped to promote a positive attitude to Europe, or whether, on the other hand, they tend to turn even more members of the public against the Constitution.
The Dutch ‘no’ is final.
Looking back, some advocates of the rejected text consider the no vote, above all, to be a vote against further enlargement to include countries with a low standard of living, particularly Turkey, and against financial solidarity with the poorest regions.
It is a little too late, however. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the fiasco of the recent EU summit has left the European Union at a crossroads.
I say this in view of Mr&#160;Juncker’s comments on improvements in the EU’s relations with Russia.
Both these institutions work and take decisions that directly affect the lives of the people of the European Union.
You have shown that the authority of a Presidency can be measured by its willingness to place the common interest above its own national interest and it is on this criterion that, from tomorrow, we will judge your successor.
I would like to add three comments on the financial perspectives.
The first is that certain governments are calling for all the EU’s policies to be sent back to the drawing board, which is what the European Parliament did after the nine months of work by its temporary committee.
My second comment is that the lack of a position from the Council must not delay the implementation of the new cohesion policy or that of the new Framework Programme on Research.
There can be no agreement on future expenditure without, at the same time, reform of the revenue system, and this subject is too important to be left just to the Ministers for Finance.
Our Committee on Budgets invited the committees of the national parliaments to an initial exchange of views on this subject last week.
We propose that the EU’s system of own resources should be examined in the context of an interparliamentary conference bringing together the European Parliament and the national parliaments to aid the governments in their search for the necessary compromise. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, for the new Member States, these last six months have been a period rich in success, even if these successes were the fruit of some difficult compromises.
Nevertheless, this period has also been rich in disappointments.
It is very important, even though we know that these last few days have not really been characterised by that solidarity.
This period has also been an experience with regard to the functioning of relations between the European institutions.
Those who opposed the rapid ratification of the European Constitution did not take account of the fact that, at the same time, they were weakening the position of the European Parliament: the progress of the Constitution in that regard has been replaced by a permanent and complicated necessity for political compromises.
However, the Luxembourg Presidency’s message was clear: no to a two-speed Europe, yes to a social Europe.
Drawing conclusions from the last six months, I am convinced that we will continue to travel together down the European road.
The clear ‘no’ votes in the two referenda have plunged the whole of the EU into a kind of vacuum, with great uncertainty about the future.
I am naturally sorry that the French and the Dutch rejected the Constitutional Treaty, but ‘no’ votes as clear as that must be respected.
In that context, the President-in-Office of the Council deserves all credit, partly for his candid speech and partly for his attempt to reconcile desires that are very much at odds with each other.
The list of foreign policy measures – 33 pages of the Council’s conclusions – was certainly compiled before the Council meeting even began but nonetheless gives the appearance of high ambition and a large degree of unity, something that is extremely commendable.
The EU has, and must continue to have, a large role to play in the surrounding world.
The enlargement of just over a year ago to include ten new Member States is a brilliant success for the whole of the European idea.
Europe is worth it, but in that case we must really make an effort and ensure that the current hiatus in the ratification process does not also extend to the whole of European cooperation, for that would be disastrous. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr Schmit, I do not know whether you can find space at the front there for all the flowers with which this House is bedecking you today.
It may be, Mr Schmit, that the result of this decision will be that there will one day be only one founding state in a politically united Europe rather than six of them, and that country will be little Luxembourg.
My political group, in contrast to the petty interests and demagogy of Mr Blair and a number of others, wants a stronger Community budget.
We want a Europe with ambitions and solidarity for its citizens: more united, stronger, more social, more democratic and with a stronger European Parliament.
It has increased over the last seven years by a mere 8%, while national budgets have increased by 23%.
Moreover, the Summit of 16 and 17 June clearly underlines the collapse of this Constitution.
The optimistic references to a common destiny in the preamble ring false in the ears of someone from a country that, while supposedly fat and stuffed to the gullet, refuses to do anything for poor countries.
It is impossible, and indeed undesirable, to indicate policy priorities in a new multi-annual budget and to allocate funds to them while the reflection period and the reformulation of the EU’s mandate are still in full swing.
The European Union must take the public’s objections about the speed and course of the European integration process seriously.
The citizens want sound European cooperation in respect of which national interests are not immediately labelled as selfish or nationalistic.
As we had cause to highlight before the Council, clear and urgent decisions on the strategy for the forthcoming years are needed for Europe.
We furthermore believe that actions promoting the creation of a common European spirit are essential, as it can only be created by means of a gradual and progressive harmonisation of policies and by means of a debate designed to generate interest, involving the citizens, civil society and the social partners.
A fresh challenge, a large-scale commitment, an ambitious course of action, rightly begun by the Luxembourg Presidency, which will be continued by Mr&#160;Blair. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I hope that Minister Schmit can hear me, because I would like to say that what the citizens are demanding now, quite rightly, is greater transparency.
It is incredible that certain Member States should make all kinds of statements of a Europeanist nature, saying that they want more Europe inside and outside our borders, while at the same time they demand a drastic reduction in their contribution to the Union’s budgets.
Neither is it acceptable, Mr Schmit, that certain Heads of Government should say one thing within the Council and then say something quite different to the media in their countries.
I would like to point out that our group will stand by its commitments and that, if no financial perspectives are forthcoming, it will fully apply the provisions of Article 272 of the Treaty and will try to establish annually the figures that this Parliament has approved with a view to guaranteeing Community action.
We still want to make progress with European integration and we therefore need the resources that this House has indicated in its capacity as budgetary authority.
For the Socialist Group, and for the Council as well, I hope, the Lisbon Strategy and, hence, economic and social cohesion, are the mid-term development objective.
The ‘no’ in the referenda and the lack of agreement in the Council are simply two sides of the same coin. &#160;&#160; Madam President, last week’s European Council was a great disappointment.
The European Parliament decided on its own position at the start of June.
That decision was reached after a full examination of all the EU’s main policy areas.
That is why Parliament’s conclusions are clear and sound.
The summit discussions were dominated by the quarrel between Great Britain and France over Britain’s rebate and the EU’s agricultural policy.
The EU needs an interinstitutional agreement on the financial framework.
Of these, the main ones concern regional and structural policy, rural development, research and development policy, and many other areas.
The situation seems to become especially problematic with regard to the one issue that really is the focal point of the financial perspective, which is increased competitiveness.
The funding would already have been halved in the proposals for a compromise, and now we do not have any finance policies at all.
Regional and structural policy also demands a solution.
When financing for the present programming period was decided at the Agenda 2000 talks in Berlin, just six months before that period began, the outcome was that structural policy should be put on hold for nearly three years.
For the first time in the process of the construction of the EU, there has been a big difference – in France and in the Netherlands – between the proposals of the elected representatives and the will of the majority of citizens.
We are pro-European, we want a united Europe and we are working for it, but we the Catalans and other Europeans from stateless nations do not believe that we are going in the right direction on some issues.
It could be that new EU Member States understand Members from stateless nations very clearly.
Most of the new Member States are new European states, but with a wild history like ours.
Either Europe wants to be purely a market or it endeavours to dig deeper and move forward by paying careful attention to the social reasons behind the referenda.
The answer is not to stop, but, rather, to have the courage to initiate a fresh, genuinely democratic, constitutional process; the answer is not to head down a cul-de-sac, but, rather, to have a Europe that is provided with its own resources and that is characterised by greater solidarity and a greater ability to combat unemployment. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the referenda in France and the Netherlands and last week’s summit genuinely revealed the European project as an elite project without grass-roots support.
Calling the people’s decision a crisis clearly demonstrates a genuine lack of belief in a democratic Europe.
We must now state that the draft Constitution has come to nothing according to the EU’s own rules.
Secondly, we must revise the form to be taken by the rules for decision-making in those areas in which we have already said that we must take joint decisions.
Thirdly, the draft Constitution included all sorts of plans for common defence, a common foreign policy and a host of other things that absolutely should not have been addressed in this context.
Instead, these are issues for the people of Europe to debate in the future.
We must begin again from the beginning, show respect for the people’s decision and then review that decision from a democratic point of view with democratically elected people in the form of a Convention. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the main reason for reviewing the course of any presidency of the EU Council seems to be to gain an opportunity for mutual appreciation by the people at the top of the EU’s political establishment.
What is demonstrated not only by this rejection on the part of the public but also by the tactical infighting on internal policies and national egoisms within the Council is that the EU is in a crisis and will not find it easy to extricate itself from it.
That is what the opportunity for radical change ought to mean. &#160;&#160; Madam President, for the first time in my life I find myself in the strange position of agreeing at least in some respects with Tony Blair.
The people of France and the Netherlands showed us that we have lost touch with our own electors.
If the Constitution were in force, he would be able to be elected for two and a half years.
You, Vice-President Wallström, now have in your hand the key that will unlock communication with the public in relation to the European project.
The topics for debate are obvious, including as they do the role of the EU in globalisation, the exit routes from the economic and employment crisis, the EU’s frontiers and the question of how much wider we may set them, not to mention transparency and democracy within the EU.
If Giscard d’Estaing’s idea of a Congress of Peoples had not been blown out of the water after being proposed to the Convention, I would almost regard it as a good idea to hold an ad hoc assembly of the European Parliament and the national parliaments on that sort of platform.
I hope in any case, though, that what comes out of this crisis will be a stronger Europe and a Europe closer to its people. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Mr&#160;Schmit, ladies and gentlemen, the Luxembourg Presidency will be remembered for having coincided with external events, which, although forcing the European project to undergo a genuine crisis, will enable the European Union to redefine its mission and to endow it with intelligence, institutions, organisation and resources.
The solution to global problems of the past, a past in which, for us, the world and Europe were the same thing, enables us to state that that period of European history has definitely come to an end, as a result of the success achieved.
The way in which every issue is now rapidly globalised obliges us to embark upon another period, which is just as challenging, not to say just as exciting.
The Luxembourg Presidency has done its best to mitigate the impact of external events, despite the bleak economic situation in many of the largest Member States and the difficult employment conditions, and despite a Council of 25 operating in accordance with the rules of the Treaty of Nice and a Commission that is still not fully able to instil Community life into the work of the Union.
The defence of the fundamental completeness of the Stability and Growth Pact, the stimulus to ratify the Constitutional Treaty, the open-handed and determined search for agreement on the budget, and the impetus provided by the Lisbon Strategy are facts that remain, to the credit of the Luxembourg Presidency.
Above all, however, the Luxembourg Presidency has taught us that the Union, in anticipation of more appropriate constitutional procedures, such as those laid down by the Constitutional Treaty, has to utilise every political resource in order to keep the process in balance, whilst allowing itself time to refocus on the fundamental objectives and methods of its own work.
Without giving in to a state of panic, without preventing itself from continuing to utilise the existing treaties in order to protect and to increase the European of common decisions, even starting with only apparently modest results, such as the European driving licence, which I hope can be approved in a few days’ time thanks to our codecision procedure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council said that Europe ought to have shown some maturity.
Tony Blair, the British Prime Minister, is now calling for a radical reform of agricultural policy.
What that boils down to is that his flagging up of agricultural policy is retribution for the demand – which most of us do in any case support – that the rebate be brought back onto the agenda. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when Mr Juncker came to this Parliament in January to set out his presidency’s priorities, the UK Independence Party reminded him that he had spoken about a window of opportunity to cut a quick deal on the EU budget, including the British rebate.
Mr Juncker is right about one thing: the EU is in profound crisis and for that we can look back in gratitude upon his six months at its helm.
His quote, ‘I want to believe obstinately that neither the French or the Dutch have rejected the Constitutional Treaty’, will go down in history as being typical of the attitude of the EU’s political elite in the 21st century.
Despite – or perhaps because of – my simplistic outlook on life, I found the EU Constitution incredibly easy to understand.
If the effect was to jolt European leaders into the same reality stream that many of their people already occupy, then a workable Europe could emerge.
This present Europe, as your presidency demonstrates, Mr Juncker, cannot work. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, given my institutional role in the European Parliament, I should be speaking about the failure of the Brussels summit in relation to cohesion, a failure which saddens us all and creates problems with the timely start of the programmes for the new period, for 2007-2013, in connection with the Community Support Framework and regional policy.
I wonder why those who raised the subject were unable to raise it in 2002 when they signed off everything to do with the CAP and the agricultural budget up to 2013.
The subject of a new model for Europe has also been raised, but every model for Europe requires financing.
We must show the citizens what Europe really is: a decision in favour of peace, cooperation, development and social cohesion. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, Mr&#160;Barroso, Mr&#160;Juncker, first of all, it is my turn to thank the Luxembourg Presidency for its efforts and, above all, for its method, which was respectful of the institutions and very democratic.
Having said that, it is with real bitterness that I now address you following this summit and its result regarding, in particular, the financial perspectives.
Far be it from me to be provocative, but I am personally embarrassed and even ashamed at the image of national egotism presented by some European states.
Overly attached to their historical advantages, they have been taught a valuable lesson in Europe by the new countries.
Once again, the Council has illustrated a political adage from Corrèze: promises only bind those who believe in them.
The resolution that we broadly adopted, though, was very moderate in view of our projects and, over seven years, enabled certain policies to be developed realistically.
We in Parliament are prepared to continue negotiations with the European Council as soon as it has its feet back on the ground, but above all when it has resumed the progression of a true political project.
Each country still needs to be convinced that the added value that we gain as 25 Member States is much greater than our contributions to the European budget.
Our European utopia does exist, but it needs a broader, more generous, more ambitious, more humanist vision with greater solidarity, shared by the citizens and respected by the Council, so that, together, we can confront reality and future challenges. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, this first half-year has been especially full of major challenges for the future of the European Union: the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact, the relaunch of the Lisbon Agenda, the ratification of the Constitution and the financial perspectives.
The Luxembourg Presidency, in its commendable effort to address them all, has confirmed its own political ability and its determined support for the Community project.
It then suffered an unfortunate setback in the European Council last Thursday and Friday, which, without doubt, does not help Europe to build an effective relationship with the citizens, a relationship that is genuinely based on the element of trust.
I must, however, add, Minister, that I was not so impressed with the position of the current Presidency on the resources for the cohesion policy in the next programming period.
With regard to the original, very restrictive proposal, a step forward was made at the start of the summit, which I personally do not believe was satisfactory, and which, in fact, if it were translated into an agreement, would not have provided an adequate response to the demands for balanced development in the regions lagging behind.
Satisfaction about the fact that under the Luxembourg Presidency, the Lisbon strategy was given another shot in the arm and can really get underway now that this last, particularly tricky summit has approved the integrated guidelines.
We know that the Member States play a leading part in this strategy, now and in future, but also that Europe has a task of its own.
It is shameful for various reasons, which have been explained here by others, certainly in respect of the new Member States.
Let us make good use of the active period of reflection, which we do, after all, have at our disposal.
I think we should ensure that we offer the people a Europe of that kind, a Europe with charisma, a Europe that is attractive once more.
I also think that I speak for many, Mr Juncker, when I say that we are grateful for your transparency and your honesty. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to begin by commending the Commission and the Luxembourg Presidency on their endeavours to prevent the European Council disaster.
The world has changed and the citizens’ concerns and needs have changed.
The EU must keep up and must begin by forging a new relationship with the citizens.
Europe can live without a Constitutional Treaty, but it is doubtful whether it could live without agreement on the Financial Perspective.
Europe must be a political Union, an area of cohesion and solidarity, and not merely a free trade area.
While this House adopts the Constitutional Treaty by a two-thirds majority, there is no shortage of Heads of Government who cannot get a majority for more democracy, citizens’ rights and transparency in their own countries.
More and more, I come to the conclusion that all those who are really serious about seeking political union and putting this continent in a stronger position on the world stage really must be committed to thinking, designing and implementing the federal state, the united states of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Juncker, Commissioner, I would like to start by thanking President&#160;Juncker for the way in which he reported on this European Council.
I think that each population is free to decide whether or not it wants to continue with this process.
In addition, a pause is vital because what can we do when a question is asked and we do not have the answer?
It is a question that is still ahead of us.
I would, however, like to give certain speakers and perhaps the Members of the Commission or others a warning.
The question is not really whether we are faced with national egos.
We must continue with this debate.
What I think is a shame is that, in the end, the grand ambitions of the Lisbon Strategy will not be served by the financial perspectives they need. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the failure of the summit and, not least, the circumstances surrounding it, are symptomatic of the deep crisis that we are in, and which has been precipitated by the dramatic way in which the public have denied us their allegiance.
The mere term ‘constitution’ is redolent of a European superstate; nobody wants one, and we are not even trying to build one.
Such are the essential elements of what we need, and of what will enable us to organise and manage a Union of 25 or even more Member States in an orderly fashion.
We have to enable the public to understand and get a handle on enlargement, and that means that Europe needs borders.
The Commission must give thought to how many regulations have to be enacted in Brussels and about the point at which the Member States should assume responsibility. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Council, Commissioner Wallström, ladies and gentlemen, when you took over the Presidency in Luxembourg, you had to deal with a natural disaster in the form of the tsunami.
Unfortunately, few people talk about the excellent foreign policy decisions taken.
During its period of office, Luxembourg has ensured that Bulgaria and Romania will become Members and that Turkey will be allowed to begin negotiations in October.
You have made history, and I would thank you for that.
Europe is emphatically not in crisis, because the debate is most certainly not now about countries wanting to leave the EU.
Rather, what has emerged from the referenda is that people want the EU to do more of the right things and the Council to concentrate on the right things, a state of affairs that would be better for the future.
At long last, we are obtaining a debate in our Member States about the future in which Europeans now wish to participate.
I appreciate the presidency’s efforts in this respect and also what Mr Juncker said, namely that he tried to reach out to the Netherlands even further.
That means that not only the position of candidate Member States must be taken seriously, but also the criteria we prescribed in respect of enlargements, and that guarantees must be put in place to this effect.
We all carry some of the responsibility in this, not least with regard to the criterion that Europe must be able to handle the enlargements.
This includes – and I do not advocate the approach of Prime Minister Blair, although I would like to draw attention to a certain position of his which seems to me relevant to our deliberation over this future – whether from the aspect of the Lisbon objectives it is right for us to allocate almost half of the Union’s entire budget to agriculture, while we are so effortlessly willing to cut financing for the fundamental measures and instruments of the Lisbon strategy: science, education and technology.
And the more courageously we respond to these issues, the greater our chances will be of finding a good solution to the bind in which we find ourselves. &#160;&#160; Mr President, discouragement and determination are two words that begin with ‘d’ and which I believe accurately reflect the feelings of Mr Juncker today and of many Members of this House: discouragement in view of what happened at the European Summit, determination to face the future: discouragement, because Mr Juncker, on describing the debate on the financial perspectives to us, sounded like an auditor heading a team of accountants.
I believe that, if there has been an example of vision and ambition at this Summit the vision and ambition that has always characterised Europeanism then that example has been given by the new countries.
In fact, there was a small group in the European Convention considering how to introduce a new system of own resources into the Constitution.
We will have to return to this issue.
With regard to the Constitution, Mr President, I believe that what is going to happen in practice, which is the suspension of the referenda, is a good thing: this is not the right time to hold more referenda and we must dedicate ourselves to debate.
Secondly, on having maintained its referendum.
I would like to remind you, Mr President, that it is not the case that there have only been two referenda so far and that they have both said ‘no’: there have been three referenda: the first was in my country, with 77.7% voting in favour of the European Constitution.
I congratulate the Luxembourg Presidency on having been, for almost six months, a good Presidency, I could say a full Presidency, without a moment’s rest, a committed Presidency, a political Presidency and an effective Presidency.
I, though, would like to be a little less discreet by saying that it is clear that this Presidency, up to the end of June, and the next one will have to ask themselves whether, with regard to the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey, we can make it seem that, and act as if, nothing had changed since December&#160;2004, as if Turkey had not slackened its efforts, as if Europe had produced a Constitution and as if it had produced a budget: it has no Constitution, it has no budget and Turkey has slackened its efforts.
Therefore, I would say very clearly that I think that, at the moment, we are not meeting the Copenhagen criterion on the ability of the EU to take on new members without losing momentum, and I would simply say, Mr&#160;President, that it would send a very strong signal if we said to the people: Europe is taking its destiny back into its own hands by being able to state where its borders are. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it has been said that the small countries are organising and setting their seal on the big presidencies of the European Union with their work.
This crisis was confirmed and reinforced by the breakdown of the European Council, despite the brave and honourable efforts made by the Luxembourg Presidency to broker a reasonable compromise on the subject of the new financial perspectives.
It is a European Council of the deconstruction of political union and social cohesion.
It is a European Council typified by the fear of the leaders in the face of the fear of the citizens.
As the fabricated fear of enlargement affected the ratifying process in France and the Netherlands, it was judged expedient to dedicate literally two lines, almost hidden away in the conclusions, to a strategic plan to foster peace, security, stability, development and, more importantly, the political and social democratisation of the candidate countries.
This strategic plan, which made the European Union a strong, international factor, is not defended by anyone today in the face of the fear cultivated by the more conservative and xenophobic political forces in Europe.
The Luxembourg Presidency was lucky to have institutional backing for its difficult task from the European Parliament.
To close, I must say that, above all, the Luxembourg Presidency had the courage to go ahead with the referenda in these difficult times. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last week’s European Council was a clear reminder that the European Union cannot carry on with business as usual following the French and Dutch votes on the Constitution.
The decision to pause for reflection on the Constitution merely underlines a lack of direction across Europe.
When two founding Member States reject the Constitution with no expectation of holding a second vote, it is hard to see the logic of continuing the ratification process.
The move to political integration has reached its high water mark.
This crisis was avoidable: for many years my party has argued for a more flexible Europe.
That is now over and we, the representatives of the people, are now charged with conducting further debate on the kind of Europe we want to see.
Those of us who have opposed that integration process have often been criticised, and many in this Chamber believe it is the only way forward, but it is not.
In the coming months we will argue positively and enthusiastically for a different kind of Europe that goes with the grain of public opinion and not against it; a Europe that gets away from the obsessions of the past and moves forward with the people’s real agenda, which is jobs, growth and prosperity.
I regret that on this occasion the Council failed to show the necessary leadership. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Juncker and his dedicated political colleagues in his excellent diplomatic and civil service on the job they have done over the last six months.
I would also like to express my admiration for the new Member States, for their solidarity and forward-looking effort to avoid the breakdown of the budget negotiations.
As has been said repeatedly, they are not the cause of the problems of Europe.
They in fact give us far more and offer us far more in terms of a peaceful, secure and prosperous future than we can offer them.
I would also like to remind the House that 28 states – not 25 – participated in the Convention and that at least Turkey, Bulgaria and Romania should be included in any debate now about the future of Europe.
I believe that if they are going to be full members of this Union within a number of years then they have a right to participate in debating what kind of Europe we are going to have.
This is the kind of politics that the people of Europe are crying out for and I would urge this House to insist that from tomorrow onwards all presidencies and all Commissioners meet with the standards set by Mr Juncker today.
I would like to ask Mr Juncker in the remaining days of his presidency, Mr Borrell and Mr Barroso, to support that initiative and demonstrate to the people of Europe that we have a future together.
We must ensure that we do not leave the people of Europe to the likes of Mr&#160;Bonde and his ilk in other parts of Europe.
It would be a betrayal of the sweat and blood of our parents and grandparents and the lessons that they learned from having a divided Europe; from having a Europe which is locked behind its own sovereign borders, unable to share power and unable to share a future together. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, my speech will be shorter, as Mr Juncker has already mentioned many of the questions I wished to express an opinion on in his very honest and comprehensive speech.
Evidently, our electors, our people still do not understand that we face new challenges.
That is why this medicine, this Constitutional Treaty, is essential.
Therefore our chief task is to invest in people, in people’s education; that is our future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European crisis that has resulted from two referenda is a clear indication that the political elite is not in touch with the people.
There is such an enormous difference between the propaganda and reality that the voters have stopped listening.
If, for example, solidarity towards the new Member States is nothing more than a mention in a speech in honour of a special occasion, the people do not need to believe anything else that is said.
The mood now is that a referendum can be organised on any issue at all, and the answer will always be no.
Explaining and justifying European policy is always a local issue, if we want people to understand our good intentions.
In the end, however, the bills for our common decisions are paid for out of national budgets, and, consequently, only the French Government can explain to its citizens with any credibility that the position of agriculture in this continent has changed, and only the British can make their own citizens understand that the rebate Britain receives on its EU contributions originated in former times and in different circumstances. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;The polarisation of Europe we are currently witnessing is a result of the EU’s financial crisis, which in turn has been triggered by its institutional crisis.
The incoming British presidency has gained considerable popularity in Central Europe as a result of its efforts to drive forward financial reform and economic modernisation.
The EU will not find a way out of its current crisis if it tries to lay down its institutional framework at the same time as deciding on the content of specific policies.
The incoming presidency has a unique chance to make its attempts to reform the EU’s budget and economy more credible, namely by ensuring that its first objective is to achieve a more stable institutional framework on the basis of Parts One and Two of the Constitution. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;I too should like to start with a few words of thanks.
I should like to thank the Luxembourg presidency for its work, which has been both highly professional and of first-rate quality.
I should also like to thank the President-in-Office of the European Council, Jean-Claude Juncker.
Although he comes from a small country, Mr&#160;Juncker is a great statesman and a great politician, and he has demonstrated quite clearly that small and medium-sized countries can also play a large role in Europe.
I refer to such ideas as Europeanism, solidarity and the placing of European interests before individual, and often selfish, national interests.
It is my belief that Jean-Claude Juncker will always serve as a fine example, in particular for the new Member States, or in other words the small and medium-sized countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
I should also like to congratulate the Luxembourg presidency on the solution which it put forward to the problems surrounding ratification of the European Constitution, and which enables those Member States that so desire to continue the ratification process.
Regardless of the problems we are facing, we should not ignore the fact that the unification of Europe is in the interests of Europe as a whole, and in the interests of our history.
I believe that Romania and Bulgaria will act equally responsibly after they join in 2007 or 2008. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to make three points.
The first point is that we should not blame Luxembourg; quite the contrary: it did an excellent job with the presidency and showed what small countries can do while running presidencies in general.
Secondly, we need a positive vision.
I do not think the results of the two referenda or the European Council should mean that we close the borders of Europe and stop competitiveness.
Quite the contrary: the best thing that has happened to us in the past ten years are the last two rounds of enlargement.
It is clear that France and Germany are no longer the engine of Europe.
If Tony Blair is the person, he needs to do two things.
If he can do this he can grab the leadership vacuum, but unfortunately what we have seen and heard from Tony Blair when he has tried to get into the heart of Europe in the past is something that can be called ‘NATO’: ‘no action, talk only’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, sadly, I do not believe that the statements given here today deliver on the expectations of our citizens.
The opportunity to overhaul the EU budget and to leave behind the antiquated system has, I believe, been missed both by the Commission and the Council.
We are now faced with a budget where the only flagship policy is agriculture.
The Europe of today needs to face up to the challenges ahead and we need to learn this lesson now.
Therefore, Mr President-in-Office, how can you justify cuts in the very areas that people want in terms of research funding, growth and jobs?
The entry into a period of rethinking is bringing to the surface creative material for institutional, political and strategic self-criticism.
My question to the President-in-Office of the Council is this: is there sufficient consultation of and information for civil society before and after the adoption of decisions by the Council?
The restoration of the historic and political unity of Europe brings to the surface new definitions of cohesion policy, a policy which signals, as a horizontal principle for the old and new Member States, a Europe of stability, of solidarity and of social prosperity.
It is to this eminent political position that the common agricultural policy aspires. &#160;&#160; Like many of my colleagues, I would like to begin by thanking Luxembourg's Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, the President of the European Council and his colleagues.
I awaited the results of the European Council in Vilnius, Lithuania, and watched Mr Juncker's press conference on television after midnight on Thursday.
History and past experience clearly shows that Europe, the European Union, was always strong when it gave precedence not to national interests, the demonstration of states' power and the personal ambitions of certain political leaders, but to common values and solidarity without denying internal competition, the engine of all progress.
I believe that today, knowing and appreciating the results of the European Council, as well as the French and Dutch ‘no’ to the European Union Constitutional Treaty, and considering the nature of the United Kingdom's vision of the European Union, we also ought to analyse the cause of the current situation very carefully.
Analysis shows that in France and the Netherlands the European Union Constitutional Treaty was largely rejected because the door was left open to Turkey to become a European Union member in the future.
We also notice that the most sensitive issues today are employment, new jobs, the growth of economic competition and the further expansion of the European Union.
These should be the signposts in our dialogue with the citizens of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Council President is known throughout Europe as an excellent and experienced negotiator.
Some want to speak about Lisbon, and about competitiveness.
Some want to speak about agricultural policy.
Fine, but I would remind you that we in the ten new Member States are contributing considerably from our own resources.
Over the past decade and a half, we in the ten new Member States have vigorously cleared the hurdles, despite all the difficulties.
A great deal has already been said about the reasons for this fiasco.
I myself concur fully with the views expressed by President&#160;Barroso at the start of the debate, and in particular with his comments on the reasons why no compromise was reached on the Financial Perspective.
European solidarity must not fall prey to conflicts between the 15&#160;old Member States.
We will never achieve dynamic economic growth in Europe if nearly one quarter of the EU’s population is deprived of the substantial support it will need over the next few years to overcome the effects of the political and economic division of Europe that was imposed upon the nations of Central and Eastern Europe.
The EU as a whole needs to work together to this end.
A strong cohesion policy and free movement of services provide the best means of achieving this goal.
The outcome of the referenda in France and the Netherlands cannot be ignored without widening the gap between Europe’s elite and its citizens.
I am quite sure that by taking its foot off the accelerator, the Luxembourg Presidency has steered the EU round a dangerous bend as far as this issue is concerned.
I should like to take the opportunity to express my particular thanks to Prime Minister&#160;Juncker and Mr&#160;Schmit for having done so. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, a whole series of my colleagues has successively congratulated the Luxembourg Presidency.
I am doubly proud today because a country the size of the country which I represent has produced leaders who demonstrate that they can talk without mincing their words and who can also stand as leaders beyond the borders of their own country.
You have promoted the Lisbon process, the failure of which to date must again be blamed on the Member States.
You have achieved the Stability Pact on which the governments of the Member States at the time knew how to compromise, because this was a particularly burning issue for them.
In retrospect we realise that Mr Schulz was right that we in the Parliament had done our work, the Commission had done its work, but the Council, for reasons of overcharge on its agenda, had not actually done the real thinking on the financial perspective.
Mr Watson referred to the UK and France being in Jurassic Park.
Let us come back to what we said in the Berger resolution and have a five-year deal, allowing the Commission and Parliament to review it in 2011.
This way we can see how far we are going without having to predict what our expenditure will be too far into the future.
Third – and I include two last points here – we need to look at the question of the Constitutional Treaty.
I welcome the suspension of ratification, because there are many things that are needed in terms of transparency, accountability, democracy and inclusion of national parliaments.
Let us, as Mr Nassauer said, focus on what is really essential for our European citizens and then think about enlargement, if necessary, a little bit further on. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the European project is currently characterised by uncertainties and concerns, yet this is also a time that encourages us to look to the future.
The ambition was to create an inclusive, integrated justice system, characterised by human dignity and capable of setting an example to the world.
The Constitution fits into this process of searching for consensus in an open and fragmented reality.
Accordingly, there are themes that must be addressed: the enlargement and governance; the EU’s financial model; the decision-making process and subsidiarity; integration and social, economic and political pluralism; the Constitution as a driving force or the Constitution as a framework.
Paths are made by walking. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as my Group’s coordinator on the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, I would like to congratulate the Luxembourg presidency for the outstanding work it has done, not just on moving to close a number of crucial files such as unfair commercial practices, but also in its very strong engagement with the work of our Committee and its very strong commitment to the internal market.
I particularly want to thank the Luxembourg presidency for the fact that, under the leadership of Minister Krecké, it has moved forward with the vital work on the Services Directive.
If I may, I would like to link that point to some of the important remarks that the President-in-Office made this afternoon.
It is a major political and economic force.
Our citizens want and understand that, but I ask those of you still here in the Chamber how many of your electors know what a political union is, and know in what direction it is taking us?
It is true that Europe is experiencing serious difficulties, but I think that these difficulties can help us.
I think that, if our current difficulties can help us to open those doors, to open that debate, then, in the end, they will have had a purpose.
Some have referred to the idea that the negative votes were motivated by a number of concerns expressed by the citizens, particularly social concerns or those raised by globalisation.
In short, all of that needs to be included in this debate, included in this dialogue with the citizens.
Well, I have confidence in them and I think that, from that vote on 10&#160;July, a clear message will emerge of continuity with the Constitution.
We have spoken a great deal about various aspects of the negotiations.
We came within a hair’s breadth of reaching agreement, because we know that, had there been a true current of agreement, those who were rejecting it would have agreed in the end.
Reform, yes, but reform in solidarity.
We will not have reform without the people.
We will not have reform without solidarity with everyone.
The agricultural policy was also the target of a great deal of criticism.
I think that you will have many more opportunities to discuss reforms, including reform of the common agricultural policy.
I obviously regret that Europe has not been able to find the positive dynamic that it could have drawn from the adoption of a better Stability and Growth Pact, and particularly from a revision of the Lisbon Strategy.
Given that the agreement in the Council was an agreement that would, in any event, still have had to be negotiated with your Parliament, it is an illusion to think that the Council alone decides on the financial perspectives, since it is clear that the Council can only reach an agreement within the interinstitutional framework with the assent of your Parliament and, of course, of the Commission too.
However, I do not want to conclude this assessment of the Luxembourg Presidency without stressing, as Mr&#160;Harbour did, that, although there has been a failure with respect to the financial perspectives, there have also been many successes.
I note, for example, that there has been an agreement, thanks in part to your Parliament, on the ‘external borders’ code: this is vital if we are to increase security at our external borders, and I think that your Parliament will vote on it during this part-session.
Yes, Europe is experiencing major difficulties, but I think that a part of its destiny is now also in your hands.
We want to open up a debate.
That debate must take place here, and it must take place in the national parliaments, within public opinion.
We often talk about the sense of State in relation to great statesmen and women, but it is high time to introduce the concept of a sense of Europe, and this is what Mr Juncker especially has shown throughout the Luxembourg presidency.
However, this debate on the Luxembourg presidency has turned into a debate on the European crisis.
It is also about quality of life and they expect the European Union to deliver and to establish policies which affect their quality of life, the environment and all the other issues that are so important for our everyday lives.
These are the questions that European citizens will continue to put to all our institutions and it is our joint responsibility to provide the answers, as far as we can.
The European Union is a unique creation.
That puts a bigger responsibility on the other two corners, the Commission and Parliament, but in this debate I have seen that there is a willingness and determination to work together.
We have seen this, for example, on the occasion of the recent Parliament resolution on the financial perspective.
As President Barroso said earlier, the Commission stands ready to assist the incoming presidency to find an agreement on the future financial perspectives.
First, we need the resources to implement those policies on which the citizens expect the Union to deliver, and we need the budget for that.
A deal that does not secure those resources will not allow us to bridge the gap between citizens and Europe.
Second, this House must accept the agreement.
Third, it must meet the legitimate needs of the new Member States who have shown their constructive attitude during the summit meeting.
The Commission will accept its responsibility and we will also immediately start to work on the ‘strategic roadmap’, which will hopefully provide some more of the responses to the very basic questions that I mentioned before.
We will, more than ever, need the input, cooperation and support of this House and all of those, who like Mr Juncker, have developed the sense of Europe and are ready to respond to his very solemn invitation. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mrs Wallström.
I hope the European Parliament and the national parliaments can play a little role in the Plan D you put forward with the Council and Commission.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be at noon tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – This was a European Council in which the impact of the double victory for the no campaign, in the French and Dutch referenda of 29&#160;May and 1&#160;June, was clear for all to see.
Members of the European Parliament have to have their own autonomous reference standard, which no longer derives from their Member States of origin but from their being representatives of the Community.
In an official statement, the Council undertook to start up a process designed to provide us with common rules with regard to parliamentary immunity.
It is a strong political commitment, which I welcome and which we would like to see confirmed today in this House by the Luxembourg Presidency.
The text that we have approved within the Committee on Legal Affairs takes account of the umpteen suggestions of the Council and represents an important balancing point, Mr&#160;President, on which we must meet.
Once again, we Members have been ready to pay a price in order to have the Statute and I have to say that that is also true for the Italian Members, considered to be ill-disposed to the salary, who have made a contribution, since it gives them a drastic cut in their allowances.
So, although we have accepted all of the Council’s requests, the Luxembourg Presidency has still expressed some doubts, and opposes a recital – number 12 – that I proposed and that the Committee approved, a recital enabling the Member States to lay down supplementary measures in order to make the status of the Members of the European Parliament equal to members of national parliaments.
Recital 12 is a mirror-image of recital 11, which in contrast allows the Member States to pay national rates.
By sending a personal letter and by failing to consult the Council, the Luxembourg Presidency – I have to say – has reacted hastily to this amendment, stating that it does not agree with it.
It has sent a letter that, in my opinion and – I believe – in the opinion of the majority ofMembers, is unacceptable from an institutional point of view.
The Luxembourg Presidency needs to be reminded to respect the role and the prerogatives of Parliament.
It is now seeking to take home at least one positive result, by promoting the announcement of this Statute, which I believe is an important moment in the life of Parliament.
Europe is a political issue, not a stereotype, for which clear guidelines are needed, and not a compromise at any cost.
The exchange of letters between the President of Parliament and the President-in-Office of the Council carries strong weight at a political level, but not for the Court of Justice: therefore, if they are accepted politically, why not lay it down in the Statute, unless there is a reservation in the minds of some people who I hope do not wish to stoop to similar trickery?
Significant cooperation has taken place among all of the Members, and it is a balanced text, which will enter into force in 2009, which leaves adequate transition periods to adapt to the new system.
The process then came to a standstill, and it was under the Italian presidency that Mr&#160;Rothley presented a new draft report to Parliament, a draft that also seemed to have good prospects of success.
On 21&#160;January&#160;2004, the Rothley report was presented to your Committee on Legal Affairs for discussion.
Unfortunately, on 26 January, the General Affairs Council failed to reach political agreement, chiefly because of the budgetary implications of the draft proposals.
In November&#160;2004, in his address to the European Council, President&#160;Josep&#160;Borrell – you yourself, Mr&#160;President – signalled that the European Parliament was willing to be flexible in this matter in order to secure an early agreement.
At the end of 2004, under the Dutch Presidency, these consultations took place in the presence of representatives of the future Luxembourg Presidency, and it was agreed that efforts would be made to reach agreement in the first half of 2005.
On 12&#160;January 2005, the President-in-Office of the Council, in his speech presenting the programme of the Luxembourg Presidency to the European Parliament, confirmed the Presidency’s intention of ensuring, in cooperation with the whole of Parliament and its President, that the negotiations on this matter would be brought to a successful conclusion.
That is why today and tomorrow, when the vote takes place, could be decisive, given that the Council and the European Parliament seem to be able to proceed at long last to a decision.
You have displayed a great deal of courage and tenacity in pursuit of this statute, which has not always been an easy matter.
May I also thank all the other Members of Parliament who have patiently, and sometimes discreetly, helped us to work on this difficult and sensitive issue, which is always liable to be a target for demagogues.
The Council, for its part, has kept its promise by trying to establish a consensus on a number of elements that might be the key to agreement on the draft statute.
In a letter of 6&#160;June to your President, I enumerated these elements, foremost among which are remuneration, the principle of reimbursing travel and staff expenses on the basis of actual cost and the principle that the European Parliament, and hence the Community budget, should shoulder responsibility for pension contributions.
The Council cannot but be gratified to note that, thanks to our close cooperation, all of these elements have been incorporated into the final report submitted to you today.
In a letter of 16&#160;June, I expressed my satisfaction to President Borrell at the overwhelming vote of approval delivered by the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the report you have presented to us.
There is nothing, absolutely nothing, to prevent a government from paying a supplement or allowance – call it what you will – to its MEPs to put them on a par with members of the national parliament.
European law has to ensure that there is equality within the European framework.
As you said, Mr&#160;President, we shall be enhancing the credibility of the European Union, the credibility of your Parliament and its Members’ Statute and also of the Council, which, after all, will have approved the statute.
I believe that the Presidency has displayed commitment – not always enough, perhaps; I accept that criticism – but what we want to do today is to make that final push and take our decision.
The Commission gave its opinion on the original proposal for a statute in June 2003.
First, we pointed out that the provisions in the draft statute relating to the privileges and immunities of Members and governed by primary law could not be amended in an act based on Article 190 of the EC Treaty.
In this new draft these provisions have been removed.
Our second comment concerned the financial implications of the statute and these concerns have also been addressed.
I would also like to thank the President of this House for his efforts in this matter, along with the Chairman of our Committee on Legal Affairs.
Our being so close to having the Statute owes much to our former fellow Member and rapporteur Willy Rothley’s dedication, to which I would like to pay tribute, and which the President-in-Office of the Council has already mentioned.
I hope I am doing what he would have wanted in recalling three fundamentals that have always underpinned our calls for a common statute.
All these things give us at least three good reasons why any Members’ Statute is better than none, but there is no doubt that what we now have before us, having for a long time been bounced back and forth between the Council and this House, adds up to more than that.
We also perceive a problem in Recital 12, against which we have already voted in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
We have asked for a split vote on it, and my Group will be voting against Recital 12, even though we do not want the Statute to be brought down at the last hurdle by something that is a current problem, but not one with any legal significance.
We also have a problem with the amendment to Article&#160;23, as adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs, to the effect that the European Parliament, being a European institution, can make payments not only in euros, but also in the currencies of countries outside the eurozone.
I think it would be inappropriate for an entity such as the European Parliament to make payments in anything other than the euro, and this would also entail numerous administrative problems for the House.
Of course it is a compromise, but it is an important compromise for two reasons: equal pay for equal work – and that means equal; fair treatment for all our colleagues.
This, of course, is between ourselves, but it is a small step forward for Europe.
Secondly, and probably more important, between our citizens and ourselves it will finally deliver a transparent system of expenses based on actual cost.
Even if we vote against paragraph 12, I call on the Presidency to consider that it is by no means this paragraph that makes the Statute less European.
That is the reason for which a number of our members will abstain on that issue and will consequently vote in favour of our amendment.
This is one reason why not all the members of my group will be voting the same way.
Our demand – backed up by amendments to the Rothley report – had always been that the amount reimbursed in respect of travel costs should correspond to the expenses actually incurred, transparency being the primary consideration.
Any reimbursement over and above the actual costs is not acceptable.
I might add that the possibility exists already of repaying excessive travel expenses, and that the German Members, for example, have already undertaken to do so.
Turning to the pension fund, there are differences of opinion among us concerning the proportion of the MEP’s share in contributions as opposed to the share payable by Parliament, but we do, in any case, endorse the basic principle according to which Members of this House – in the same way as other citizens – must contribute to the social security systems and bear their share of funding the pension scheme, even though we are aware that this is a pension fund rather than a system founded upon solidarity.
The principle of subsidiarity must be our guide.
The national salaries paid to Members of the European Parliament are adjusted in accordance with the actual salaries and costs that prevail in the respective Member States.
It would not be fair if a Member of the European Parliament from a country in which salaries are low were to receive a salary several times higher than that received by someone with a similar or more senior post in his or her own country.
The travel expenses system can be reformed without a common Members’ Statute being adopted.
I ask Mr&#160;Schmit whether there is a principle of equality by which, a five-star hotel room in one of the new Member States costs the equivalent of EUR&#160;40, as was our experience two weeks’ ago in Krakow, Poland, whilst it costs the equivalent of EUR&#160;500 or EUR&#160;700 for a hotel of the same standard in Rome, Paris or any other European capital.
Whilst you can dine out on EUR&#160;10 in a restaurant in one of the countries of the East, a restaurant of the same quality in Italy, Germany or France charges EUR&#160;70, EUR&#160;80 or EUR&#160;100.
From a legal point of view, I believe that it is unacceptable, partly because the interpretation that we are going to give – and I am only talking about Articles 9 and 10, Mr&#160;President – is that the Members are entitled to a fair allowance, enough to give them an independent living.
Nevertheless, I am still persuaded that it is possible to achieve real, serious democracy at European level, albeit not, of course, in such a manner as this.
The first message is without doubt one of thanks to the Presidency-in-Office of the Council for having in some way helped to put this debate back onto the agenda.
An even more heartfelt message of thanks is offered to this Parliament.
You will allow me to do this, because an objective that I consider to be of great political value, as a demonstration of the progress we are making towards a process of European political integration, is being reached through this acknowledgment of the coherent role of being a Member of the European Parliament.
Presenting the fact that the salary and allowance regime is different from that of national MPs as a privilege, while disregarding the fact that that was the one single condition preventing a Member of the European Parliament from being considered to carry out a hierarchically subordinate role to that of a member of a national parliament, is not, in my opinion, satisfactory.
For my own part, let me say plainly that I do not want anyone to indulge in demagogy now with this Members’ Statute.
It is all to the credit of your Parliament that it has adopted this statute or will adopt it tomorrow.
I have the pleasure of thanking the Presidency of Parliament for the assistance it has provided, and Mr&#160;Schmit for his commitment to the first part of the Statute, which, with another itinerary and with another procedure, must be approved by the Council, and furthermore for his readiness, even in the final hours between this evening and tomorrow, to find a compromise on recital 12, which, Mr&#160;President, I continue to believe is important for the legal basis of the Statute itself. &#160;&#160; On my own behalf and on behalf of this Institution, I too would like to express my gratitude to the Luxembourg Presidency.
The vote will take place tomorrow and the honourable Members will then decide whether they accept or reject the rapporteur’s text.
The debate is closed.
European regulations enable the public to get a better insight than do 25 or 27 sets of national rules and any number of compensation arrangements, some permitted and some not.
I am aware that there are unmistakeable defects in even this compromise.
Although our amendment – No 1 – on this has now been lost, I am convinced that an opening still exists to find a solution at a lower level than that of the Statute and will continue to press the case for a solution of this kind, which must be supplementary to the Statute.
The House must now make all possible haste to complete the work on one successfully. &#160;&#160; –Τhe next item is one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I was astonished to read in a British newspaper that several hundred Nazi war criminals are living in the United Kingdom.
Most of these trials were conducted in Poland.
I would therefore call on the President of Parliament to take action as quickly as possible, and to ensure that the British Government is called to account on this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following on from my last speech before the House in Strasbourg, I should like to reiterate my views on the transport of live cattle.
I should like, once again, to ask the Commission and the Council to initiate a reform of this system, on the one hand in order to put an end to the suffering of animals and on the other in order to support small and medium-sized farms. &#160;&#160; – Unfortunately, there is no interpretation at the moment in the language in which you elected to speak and your speech was not therefore translated. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as an Irish speaker I welcome the decision to accord the status of official working language of the European Union to the Irish language.
I extend congratulations and heartfelt thanks to all of those involved in the status campaign to achieve the status of official working language of the European Union for the Irish language.
The latter is a country that could serve as a model of multicultural coexistence, in view of the large number of national minorities living alongside the Polish nation.
The report condemns national movements and singles out , even though the latter attempts to present an objective and truthful picture of reality.
The date of 17 June 2005 will be recorded in European history as a&#160;failure.
With the unsuccessful referenda on the Constitutional Treaty and the budget fiasco at the June summit we have, unfortunately, started to build a new European wall between the old and the enlargement parts of the Union.
This situation is made worse by the addition of the A74 motorway to the existing A73.
We recently concluded that at this rate, Europe will no longer meet even the Kyoto standards.
I believe that the regulation we are discussing this evening, which reflects an agreement at the first reading between Parliament and the Council, is a good signal to send 20 years after the conclusion of the Schengen agreements.
We have achieved an objective in this domain, an objective set for us by the Thessaloniki European Council on 19 and 20&#160;June&#160;2004.
In other words, we have achieved this objective in something like record time, because the recasting undertaken in the framework of this regulation is designed, on the one hand, to remove obsolete provisions from the handbook and, on the other hand, to develop and clarify other provisions on the basis of an analysis of the everyday problems encountered on the ground at the external or internal borders of the Union.
The regulation, however, goes further than a mere makeover, because it establishes a veritable Community Code governing the movement of persons across borders, not only relating to the external borders of the Union but also, as I said, with a component on the internal borders, since these two aspects are undeniably complementary.
Moreover, the regulation resolves the problem of the ambiguous legal basis of the handbook by creating a proper legal instrument containing all the basic principles and rules relating to borders.
The internal-border component reiterates the provisions of the Schengen Convention on the abolition of checks on persons at internal borders and on procedures for the temporary reintroduction of such checks in the event of a threat to public safety or to the internal security of a Member State.
This regulation adapts these provisions to the institutional framework of the Community.
At the meeting of Coreper on 1&#160;June, a general agreement was reached on the wording of the Code and then, on 13&#160;June, the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs unanimously adopted the compromise amendments.
The Community Code is the first instrument in the field of asylum, immigration, visas and borders to be subject to codecision with Parliament.
This collaboration has served to establish compromises which all three institutions can now endorse.
We undoubtedly have considerable difficulties, huge difficulties, but I believe that the act we are discussing this evening in preparation for its adoption at first reading tomorrow shows that the European Union is capable of taking decisions, of making progress in the interests of the people and above all, as I indicated before, of progressing democratically with parliamentary support.
The Presidency also wishes to thank the Commission for its efforts and for its input, throughout the legislative process, of valuable technical knowledge without which the Code would never have seen the light of day.
The Luxembourg Presidency rightly sought to make a commitment – and the Commission has always supported that commitment – to being able to put a balanced provision to the vote in Parliament at first reading.
I will conclude by saying, Mr&#160;President, that those signs are the signs that the European citizens are waiting for.
They are signs of faith in a Europe, in a European Union, which is alive, which can continue to make progress and to obtain tangible results.
It is extremely important that the Parliament dealt with this dossier in a mature, reasonable and practicable way.
Compromise is the whole notion on which the European project was built in the early 1950s and in 1957.
In this House, and indeed in our other institutions, we talk too much and do not deliver enough.
As was mentioned earlier, each of us, especially as politicians, can talk a defining moment into a crisis.
There have been no shadows in this report; we have been equal rapporteurs, equal participants and without them we could not have presented this document today.
More importantly, I would like to thank those people who sit behind us – sometimes seen, sometimes unseen: our assistants and our advisers, without whom we could not do this work.
On non-discrimination akin to Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, for example, there is the right of people undergoing second line checks to have those checks conducted with dignity and, if necessary, in a non-public area.
And where appeals are successful, the necessary compensation will be provided according to national law and corrections.
As an inclusion to the main body of text, the annexes are extremely important when we come to adopt and review this regulation in future.
Regular reports on the implementation of the regulation are to be compiled by the Commission.
His report supplements and includes a large number of the observations that I had set out in my opinion on this important topic drafted on behalf of the Committee on Development.
The equation is not easy, but an effort is required in order to achieve a balance between the need for security for our countries, which has to be upheld and safeguarded, and a policy of openness towards those who lawfully venture within our borders in search of improved living conditions.
It should in fact be remembered that, as the European Union, we also have humanitarian duties.
It is therefore right to implement the necessary controls at border crossings in order to regulate the influx of those seeking visas and asylum, but we cannot, however, avoid adopting a global approach of solidarity and respect for human rights, particularly in humanitarian crisis situations, such as in the recent cases of the tsunami and of Darfur.
The Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs raised the issue with the Committee on Legal Affairs and, having studied it, the latter came to the conclusion that that proposed amendment would make it necessary to review the legal basis and that Article 62(1) and Article 62(2) would not be sufficient, but that Article 62(3) of the Treaty would also be necessary, since Article 62(3) of the Treaty refers to the conditions in which third-country nationals can travel freely in the territory of the Member States for a period of no longer than three months.
This is the first real opportunity for this Parliament to deal with the issue in its entirety, keeping in mind the fact that the proposal has been transferred from the consultation process to the codecision process as a result of the decision made by the Council of the Hague.
The proposal is broken down into four titles: the first contains general provisions; the second regulates the crossing of external borders and conditions for entry in the Schengen area; the third deals with internal borders, reaffirming the abolition of all border controls and stipulating the cases and the procedures in which such controls can be reintroduced; and the fourth contains the final provisions.
A large proportion of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur aim at clarifying a number of the elements of the Commission proposal only in terms of the language used.
The rapporteur has worked commendably, in close cooperation with all of the shadow rapporteurs and political groups, in addition to checking first-hand how the borders are crossed today.
He has, moreover, taken part in lengthy negotiations with the Council, with the Luxembourg Presidency, and it is therefore desirable that the report is put to the vote during the current presidency.
The compromise that has been reached with the various political groups, with the agreement of the Council and the Commission, has been put to the vote and unanimously approved by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
Precisely as a result of this general consensus, which was reached by means of a complex series of bilateral and multilateral compromises, the report should not be subjected to changes at the present time, and it is therefore desirable that it is adopted in full.
We want of course to see a more open EU, but that requires common solutions and respect for countries, as well as respect between countries and between people and groups.
For my part, I had three particular concerns about this dossier.
The first was that, while guaranteeing the rights of the beneficiaries of freedom of movement under Community law, the instrument must also keep open the option of conducting the checks required for the identification at external borders of persons registered for refusal of admission and wanted persons.
It seemed to me – and this was my second concern – that, in cases where nationals of non-EU countries were refused entry to the territory of the Union, their rights ought to be clearly defined and made known to the parties concerned, but at the same time security requirements had to be rigorous.
The various groups within this House have amply demonstrated their ability to cooperate jointly and effectively, both among themselves and with the Council.
Let me give an example of the sort of case that could occur, the sort of case with which we were faced when we began work on this dossier.
It is hardly likely that the person in question would then have been able to travel to the USA, Canada or Australia with a stamp of this kind in his passport.
In a nutshell, our joint efforts have resulted in a solution which means that checks on those crossing the EU’s external borders will become a great deal more welcoming. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the final Member speaking in this debate can I emphasise that I was not a shadow, but I have learned a great deal from the way Mr Cashman has achieved agreement on the most difficult of subjects, dealing with sensitive issues like the reintroduction of border checks, creating a balance between security post-9/11 and all the benefits of Schengen free movement and respecting the dignity of people, particularly from third countries, who want to enter the Union.
Therefore I commend in this report – the first time in a codecision report since the Article 13 directives went through this Parliament – the fact that we have an explicit reference to anti-discrimination and to the dignity of people while carrying out border checks.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the debate on the report by Bogdan Klich, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on Security Research (2004/2171(INI)) (A6-0103/2005). &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, it has been a pleasure to draft this report for two reasons.
The first of these is the excellent cooperation on the part of both the committees that have delivered opinions, namely the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, and on the part of the vast majority of political groups, in particular the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Union for Europe of the Nations Group.
It is a fact of life that the kind of terrorism to which Europe grew accustomed in the 1960s and 1970s has been replaced by a new kind of terrorism that affects many more people and is far more deadly and dangerous.
The result of this is that EU Member States are not in a position to close the technology gap that exists between the United States and Europe in terms of defence potential and security.
Accordingly, in response to this need for more effective security research, the Commission has proposed a European Security Research Programme, due to be launched in two years’ time under the umbrella of the Seventh Framework Programme.
The European Security Research Programme will be based on a coherent, flexible and coordinated approach, and will focus on research projects that enhance our technological capabilities.
The approach currently taken to security research at the highest EU level lacks coherence.
This leads to extensive fragmentation and weak cooperation between Member States, and also makes such research less cost-effective.
The Programme provides for the exploitation of synergies between defence and civil research, so it can be expected to boost the integration of these two sectors.
What is more, Parliament’s adoption of the Programme, the proposed annual budget for which is EUR&#160;1&#160;billion in addition to any research funding already earmarked for this sector by the individual Member States, should serve to narrow the gap that currently exists between the EU Member States and the United States.
The report refers to several priority areas of interest, of which I shall only mention a few.
The report also encourages the Commission to support research in the field of social sciences, without which appropriate planning of research into modern technologies is inconceivable.
Given that defence-related issues are at the top of the political agenda, there is every likelihood that this Programme will enable us to increase security and make it easier to achieve the EU’s objectives.
Security is an essential component of a number of different EU policy areas, including the common foreign and security policy and the area of freedom, security and justice.
At the same time, however, security is also a basic requirement for prosperity and growth and, as such, indispensable for achieving the economic policy goals of the Lisbon Agenda.
Research at both national and European level is required to create such a base, and it was for this reason that the Group of Personalities made the following recommendation to the Commission one year ago; ‘technology alone cannot guarantee security, but security without technology is impossible’.
Security managers, industry and the public are among those who benefit from security research, and, in order to meet their high expectations, consistency must be achieved between its various facets.
Firstly, this research must actively help to create a social and business environment which is conducive to positive economic development and which lays the groundwork for prosperity, as this will ensure that it acts as a driving force for growth and employment in Europe.
It must also enhance the competitiveness of the European security industry, and in fact the European Security Research Programme will help create and extend a European market for security products.
Current proposals provide for an annual budget of around EUR&#160;500&#160;million.
The Commission welcomes the fact that Parliament’s report calls for an annual budget of EUR&#160;1&#160;billion, as proposed by the Group of Personalities.
Security research under the Seventh Framework Programme will focus on the following areas; protection against terrorism and crime, security of infrastructures and utilities, border protection and restoring security in case of crisis.
These four topics will be supported by a number of horizontal areas, namely systems integration and interoperability, security and society and coordinating and structuring research.
As proposed in the report on security research, and in order to ensure that Parliament is properly represented, Vice-President Verheugen has invited five committees to appoint representatives to act as observers on the European Security Research Advisory Board.
Parliament has always backed the current Preparatory Action for Security Research, and this backing has been much appreciated.
I should also like to thank Parliament for giving its consent to security research in general during the debate on the Seventh Framework Programme, and in particular with regard to funding for the Preparatory Actions.
The Commission will be happy to continue submitting reports on the implementation of the Preparatory Action until such a time as implementation of the European Security Research Programme becomes possible under the umbrella of the Seventh Research Framework Programme.
This will allow us to take action at Community level that enhances the competitiveness of the security industry, allows us to progress towards the Lisbon goals and helps our society as a whole to feel and be safer.
Our contribution fundamentally consists of setting objectives optimising resources, clarifying responsibilities, classifying security research as of public interest — a fundamental and extremely important issue — providing great impetus, by means of research, for interoperability, which is so necessary in crisis situations, not so much in terms of prevention but in terms of response to and resolution of those crises, and advocating the need for adequate funding, linking security research entirely to gross domestic product, hence taking account of the economic weight of States and not allowing research in this field to be subject to considerable fluctuations in available budget.
Finally, Mr President, I believe that we will have a European programme for security research within the seventh framework programme and a plural, technical and political advisory committee.
When we attempt to formulate and define a policy of common security research, this does not involve irrational fears or ideology, but a very rational policy that will enable a higher degree of security for European citizens.
In this light I would like to express great concern at the potentially fatal consequences that might be suffered by the area of security research if there is no suitable agreement on the financial perspective.
If the Council does not follow the guidelines of Parliament and the original proposal from the Commission, there is a serious fear of the termination of new programmes that are now still included in the seventh framework programme.
The Kok report has already set out the clear finding that responsibility for achieving the Lisbon objectives lies first and foremost with the Member States, both in decision-making at home and in decision-making on the European level.
Both the European Council, with the European security strategy adopted in December 2003, and the European Parliament, in its resolution in April 2005, have highlighted the need to combat international dangers and challenges by reinforcing European defence and security policy and the common foreign policy and defence and security policy.
However, the problem is not only institutional and political.
It is a question of the effective application of the decisions taken at the level of the European institutions.
Our objective must not be blind competition with the United States.
It is also in its interest for the European Union to strengthen research programmes and policies and to contribute to economic development, to the strengthening of competitiveness and to the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy.
The proposal to integrate this programme into the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Union is particularly important, as is the proposal to give it an annual budget of EUR one billion.
If they are to be combated effectively, the problems of international terrorism, organised crime and illegal immigration need a broader approach, not for research to be encaged in a militaristic or police-state philosophy.
These are important goals which relate to the security of the European Union, because they strengthen the visibility of the Programme to European citizens.
Finally, I believe that we need to ensure, as the European Union, that security research does not undermine our collective principles and values about the protection of human rights and political and democratic freedoms.
Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Klich, and to say that our group will be voting in favour of his report tomorrow. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, it has almost become routine in this Chamber for us to have a legislative framework against terrorism in every plenary session.
As a result, opium went up in Afghanistan, the opium which is killing our children, including many in Greece, while in Iran oil went up from USD 20 to 60 a barrel.
We have new reports against terrorism and yet no report puts Mr Bush, who brought us to this point, in his place.
Mr Blair, Mr Bush's field marshal, will be here tomorrow.
So let us tell him that he owes us much more than he gives us, because the price of oil has risen from USD 20 to 60 a barrel, with the result that people are unable to pay and we are in this difficult position.
Yes, money against terrorism but, above all of course, a policy for the people of Europe. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The first phase took place in Geneva in 2003 and concluded with the adoption of a declaration of principles and a plan of action.
The second phase, which will take place in Tunis this November, will focus on the implementation of the plan and on two unresolved issues, namely financing the plan of action and governance of the Internet.
The European Union has engaged in this process with a coordinated position and considerable authority, because it can speak with one voice.
This divide is even deeper in the least-developed countries, or LDCs, which have neither an adequate infrastructure nor the means to provide mass access to these forms of technology.
The first issue to emphasise is the contribution of ICT to democracy.
It is an essential means of reducing inequality and promoting human dignity as well as of guaranteeing freedom of expression and information, pluralism of opinion and popular involvement in decision-making processes.
The concern of the World Summit to ensure that a better regulatory framework, an appropriate system of governance, is created to avert the risks and aberrations that might jeopardise the security and integrity of individuals, organisations and even governments, cannot justify failure to respect these rights.
Such diversity is easier to achieve in a democratic context, and our Parliament has a duty to point this out to Tunisia, which will be hosting the summit.
These countries require confidence and the prospect of long-term stability before they can act.
The European Union did not want a new fund to be created at the United Nations for the purpose of encouraging cooperative ventures, since it would entail the mobilisation of the existing funds allocated to our own development programmes, to the framework programme for research and development and to the Competitiveness and Innovation programme.
The creation of the Digital Solidarity Fund on a voluntary basis is to be welcomed, but the Fund remains a complementary instrument.
In conclusion, let me say that the key aim is the promotion of fair and sustainable development.
This is the essence of our vision of an inclusive information society.
It is for this reason that I should like the timetables for the Lisbon and i2010 strategies to be linked to the plan of action and the involvement of the European Union to be considered in terms of shared development and shared responsibility.
It confirms the interest you have already shown in this summit, both through the participation of several Members of Parliament in the Geneva session in December&#160;2003 and through your regular debates on the information society.
The Commission attaches a great deal of importance to the summit and is also devoting considerable efforts to it in close liaison with the Member States.
I should therefore like to emphasise our concordance of views with the analysis presented by Mrs&#160;Trautmann and to tell you how much the Commission appreciates the work that has been done on its behalf.
Indeed, the report clearly identifies the main issues of the summit, namely the development dimension and the importance of the social component of the digital divide, the role of technology in improving essential public services, in increasing popular participation in decision-making processes and, ultimately, in developing participatory democracy.
In addition, your report rightly stresses the significance of a consistent approach on the part of the Community.
What we expect from Tunis may be summed up as follows: confirmation of the Geneva declaration on an inclusive information society respecting human rights, freedom of expression and cultural and linguistic diversity; a summit focused on action and devoting its attention to a limited number of priorities; an agreement on financing which will result in higher priority being attached to information and communication technology within the existing mechanisms and which incorporates the Digital Solidarity Fund created in Geneva.
The Internet has become an essential resource for all countries; for this reason, we should be committed to a more international form of governance of the Internet, the practicalities of which must be compatible with the responsibility of governments to their citizens.
A new model of cooperation is needed in order to translate into practice the provisions of the declaration of principles adopted at the Geneva summit relating to the crucial role of all parties involved in this governance.
Lastly, I should like to say to the rapporteur and her collaborators that I share their concern about the human-rights situation in Tunisia.
The situation is far from satisfactory in many areas, particularly as regards freedom of expression and association.
In conclusion, I wish to congratulate your Assembly on this report and to assure you that the Commission will heed your recommendations and follow them up.
With a view to the second phase of the World Summit on the Information Society, that will take place in Tunisia in November, and also in view of the Millennium Objectives of the United Nations and the Lisbon Strategy, the rapporteur has included all the considerations relating to information and communication technologies and the information society, from an economic point of view and also from technological, social and cultural points of view.
In the field that concerns me in particular, the cultural field, the report has incorporated the suggestions of this Parliament's Committee on Culture and Education: it states that the information society must be open to everybody and education, training and digital literacy are priority fields in terms of creating an inclusive information society which helps to overcome digital fragmentation and guarantees access to basic technologies under equal conditions, and also helps the citizens to participate in political decision-making, with a view to strengthening democracy, though always moving in the direction laid down in the Lisbon Strategy.
It also indicates that, as well as presenting risks, the information society also offers an opportunity to promote intercultural dialogue and to guarantee freedom of expression and information, cultural diversity and multilingualism.
Genuine political will is expressed through commitments and, as the Commission also indicated in its Communication on ‘i2010 – A European Information Society for growth and employment’, the information society is a key factor which must also be considered, given its significant impact on economic growth, employment and social cohesion.
After Geneva, we have now reached a second phase.
We therefore greatly appreciate Mrs Trautmann’s own-initiative report and also her way of going about things.
Although she managed to organise the dialogue between the groups in a very fruitful and sound manner, she also knows that we have some critical comments to make about the presentation of the report.
It is about Parliament expressing an opinion and making its contribution to the conference of 16 to 18 November 2005.
That is why we suggested she should choose less ambitious and more direct wording along the lines of ‘The world summit on the information society, second phase’.
This would also be more in keeping with Mrs Reding’s communication.
As I said, our group greatly appreciates this discussion and active participation.
High-level ICT is not only central to our Lisbon agenda but also, and specifically, to its implications for the developing countries.
The PPE-DE Group advocates a framework of independent regulatory authorities guaranteeing access, freedom of expression and information, cultural diversity and multilingualism.
It can hardly be said that the past weeks have increased confidence in this area.
At the same time, I would like to express our profound concern about the human rights situation in the host country, which we believe to be very critical.
I would like the Commission to take action in this regard in order to ensure the participation of civil society in the coming Summit.
Furthermore, I would like to express my perplexity at the possible and imminent extension of software patents, which could represent a very considerable obstacle to access to the Internet, access to information, above all in the countries of the South.
The information society has to be accessible to all: an element of democracy that takes account of cultural diversities and that promotes the participation of the citizens, who are involved parties and not only consumers.
The role of public investment is fundamental in order to safeguard the accessible character of information technology, for instance, in ensuring the development of free software and its adoption within public administration.
The mandate of the ICANN is about to expire.
It is a matter of ensuring the representativeness and the legitimacy of the new organisation managing the Internet, by establishing governance with various players: governments, NGOs, private sector, and civil society, each with its own role and clear obligations.
The Commissioner and rapporteur have done some excellent work.
The new information and communication technologies can help promote European democracy, skills and expertise, and competitiveness.
As legislators, we have a democratic and cultural duty to prevent centralisation of the sector.
The same giant companies now own not only the television, radio and press institutions but also the mobile communications technologies, and this kind of homogeneity presents us with a major challenge, because diversified communication is absolutely essential for us to develop a knowledge-based economy.
Europe has every chance of setting an example to the rest of the world in this field, particularly since the information society plays a leading role in the Lisbon Strategy, the main objectives of which are growth and employment.
The digital divide plays a key role in this respect; to take but one example, family businesses in developing countries lack the basics not only in terms of hardware and software, but above all in terms of training.
The Internet is also home to a wealth of cultural and linguistic diversity – another example of which can be seen in this House, with its 20&#160;languages – and so it opens up a wide range of possibilities for achieving what must be our main goal, namely encouraging growth and employment throughout the world.
Health is another factor that must not be neglected, as it will be a key determinant of future welfare spending.
Commissioner, the Tunisia Summit must demonstrate the political will of the European Union and the Member States to promote information and communication technologies as a strategic instrument for economic and social development, and also for cooperation.
The European Union’s leadership with regard to cooperation with developing countries undoubtedly offers those countries an opportunity to open up to the information society to the benefit of everybody.
And if we reach an agreement on the new financial perspectives, we in the European Union have the opportunity to take advantage of the priority, already expressed by the next Presidency of the Council, attached to promoting greater establishment and development of information and communication technologies.
The Trautmann report is undoubtedly correct when it asserts that ICT development must serve to strengthen democracy and citizens’ interests, so as to make people participants and not simply consumers in the information society.
In Hungary today, for example, only one in every four adults uses the Internet regularly.
The ratio is similar in the majority of the new Member States.
In these Member States, development of the services sector and infrastructure could easily become asymmetrical as a result, since a significant portion of society, lacking the appropriate motivation, is passive or dismissive towards the implementation of costly systems.
All of this of course could also bring about asymmetry in the relationship between the old and new Member States.
And we must also give priority to dispelling engrained negative attitudes and misconceptions surrounding the new medium, alongside emphasising its positive attributes.
Alongside the fact that they increase productivity and promote inclusion in society, this transition to the age of digital communication is also a cause of exclusion from society, especially if users or citizens are insufficiently aware of the advantages, or are not capable of using our modern acquisitions.
It is therefore extremely important that we invest in the development of the information society, and at the same time in education for the use of modern technology even in the earliest stages of school education.
For this reason, in addition to development, society must ensure the possibility of education for all strata of the population and for all age groups.
The next challenge awaiting us is the development of an information society, in which technology and communications are used to enforce human rights standards&#160;effectively at international, national and regional levels.
While building this information society, we must focus not only on the obvious tasks of promoting and constructing basic infrastructure, but also and above all, on education.
The information society entails free and unrestricted access to technology and information, and this is why I believe that software patents would mean certain death for such a society.
A law has been adopted in Cuba restricting Internet access to selected businesses and government offices, and banning the sale of computers to the public.
Only 6&#160;000 of the 100&#160;000&#160;computers in Cuba are connected to international networks, and even these are kept under close control.
The Belarussian Government is also well aware of the potential role of the Internet in developing civil society and democracy, and it uses every means at its disposal to curb its growing popularity.
A further characteristic feature of the situation in Belarus is the fact that the state is the only Internet provider, as there are no other operators in the country with access to external telecommunications services.
There is no escaping the conclusion that this issue must also be a focus of our activities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I must apologise to the Commissioner because, as she probably knows, I do not normally make a practice of turning up just in time to speak.
I am pleased to be here to support Mrs Trautmann’s report, particularly because I was part of the delegation that went to the first World Summit on the Information Society in December 2003 with her distinguished predecessor, Erkki Liikanen.
I was privileged to be there in the great chamber in Geneva when he made a very eloquent speech on behalf of the European Union.
I am sure that Commissioner Reding will want to continue that important tradition, because there is much work to be done.
I know that part of the next generation of the ‘Geant’ programme, which the Commissioner launched last week, will address that issue.
I cannot overstate the importance of that, particularly because we want those computer scientists to develop the tools, products, services and new ideas that will help their communities, whether it is in health, education or other forms of local service provision, particularly over a very widespread area and one where communications are very light.
Secondly, there is the importance of encouraging them to have a competitive infrastructure for telecommunications, to bring those costs down, to encourage competition so they can have the same access as us to plentiful, cheap services.
If we can achieve those two things, along with the other things, it will be a tremendous advance for all those countries. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
Everything which is said only reflects the position of the Committee on Petitions and not that of any political group or of me personally.
The debate this evening, moved by the oral question tabled on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, touches the very core that many people have in mind when they talk of a Europe of the citizens or, more specifically, of European nationality.
The right to petition, as enshrined in the Treaty, implies obligations for all the European institutions, not just Parliament.
Every citizen has the right to petition Parliament within the framework of the activities of the European Union and to expect a satisfactory response; to expect that, where there is infringement in matters which touch on the competences of the European Union, there will be reparation.
If a European law has not been applied correctly by a Member State for a great many years; if, indeed, incorrect application has also resulted in serious personal losses and, in certain cases, pushed people to the point at which they end their lives; if it is true that the petitioners in the Lloyd's affair in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany and numerous other countries in the European Union suffered huge financial losses because the First Non-Life Insurance Directive was not applied correctly, then this matter must make all of us think about how Europe operates.
Citizens have the right to expect that, when the Council and Parliament adopt legislation, it is applied correctly in the Member States of the European Union without exception.
On this subject, after a long interval, Parliament took exceptional measures, approving the report by Mr Roy Perry in September 2003 by 358 for, no votes against and 35 abstentions.
Long and detailed enquiries followed by the Committee on Petitions and yet, despite all this, the petitioners are still waiting for a clear answer to the questions raised in the Perry resolution, so that they can finally proceed with their case before the courts in Great Britain and seek compensation for the losses which they have sustained.
If the European Parliament needs to refer the European Commission to the Court of Justice of the European Communities, because it failed to reply to our question and because it failed to render proper account to the European Parliament, then I believe that we should do so without fear, Mr Libicki says.
That is the substance of this evening's debate.
I refer to Oral Question B5-0010/2004 by Mr Perry, which was debated by Parliament on 12 February 2004, and to the answer given by the Commission on that occasion.
The Commission’s views and concerns relating to the pre-2000 UK legislation were set out clearly in its letter of formal notice of December 2001, which is now a public document.
The Commission has no doubt that once it had established the compatibility of the new regime for Lloyd’s it had no basis for continuing the infringement proceedings it had begun with the letter of formal notice in December 2001 in relation to the old regime.
The Court of Justice’s jurisprudence on the purpose and conduct of infringement proceedings is quite clear.
The Commission has always stressed to complainants that any action seeking damages for alleged incompatibility under the former regime must be undertaken exclusively before the United Kingdom courts.
In order to help them in their litigation in the UK against the UK Government, the petitioners and many correspondents seem to seek a ruling from the Commission on the compatibility or incompatibility of the former Lloyd’s regime.
The Commission voiced its concerns in its 2001 letter of formal notice but this was only the first step in a long process of argument and counter-argument that might ultimately, if it had been continued, have led to a formal hearing and ruling at the Court of Justice.
The Commission is fully aware that it is a subject of great regret to many that the legal proceedings begun with our letter were not pursued to their ultimate conclusion, but it has no doubt that its decision to discontinue the proceedings was the right one and was fully in conformity with the constant jurisprudence of the Court in the matter of infringement proceedings.
The Commission believes that the points addressed to it in Mr Perry’s report, to which the draft resolution makes reference, have all been answered.
The Commission made its views on the UK authorities’ responses to the letter of formal notice public when it decided to close the infringement procedure.
As to the third question in Mr Perry’s report about possible shortcomings or omissions in the UK regime, I reiterate that the Commission raised a number of questions in its letters of formal notice.
Such questions do not, in themselves, constitute an opinion or judgement.
This is about the fact that the question tabled by Roy Perry and now by the Committee on Petitions has not been answered properly.
It is a measure of that concern that there is unanimity in the Committee on Petitions, even though there may be disagreement about the substance on the fact that this question has not been responded to properly.
That is why there is a motion for a resolution attached to give power to the President of Parliament to instruct the Committee on Legal Affairs to take legal action against the Commission to answer that question, if – as I suspect is already the case this evening – this has not happened.
My colleagues and I on the Committee on Petitions cannot agree to the petition being closed until we get the proper answers to these questions tabled now and also previously by my former colleague Roy Perry.
The Commission must answer the question properly to give at least a chance to those who have suffered at the hands of Lloyd’s in this sad affair the opportunity to be able to pursue their cases.
Mr President, during the last term in office, I was a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and I followed this issue, and then, just as now, I was highly perplexed, because we are talking here about the Commission’s legal responsibilities, in accordance with Article 232 of the Treaty, which relates to the procedure on failure to act, but, according to Article 232, in order for the European Parliament to complain about a violation of the Treaty, it must involve a violation of the Treaty as such.
In legal terms, we could say that, as things stand, neither this Parliament, nor the Commission, nor the Court of Justice of the European Union are the appropriate fora for dealing with this kind of complaint.
We could have a different Treaty, which would impose obligations on the Commission with regard to things that have happened previously, but in this case the case-law of the Court of Justice is clear and that is why I raised objections in relation to this issue and I continue to do so today.
My feeling is that, at this point, both the Commission’s previous reply and the reply that Commissioner McCreevy has just given us are entirely satisfactory.
The British courts themselves are their only chance of success; in fact I believe actions have already been brought before those courts.
The central issue here is about how the European Union functions and, more particularly within your area, about how the internal market functions.
In addition, our Committee on Petitions is often the first point of call.
And if there is a query about implementation it should be prepared, given the current political climate in Europe, to give unequivocal answers.
Parliament has always argued that correspondence regarding possible enforcement proceedings between Member States and the Commission should be shared.
It is quite straightforward and I appreciate that your predecessor, Mr Bolkestein, wrote saying that there were reasons for not revealing some of the correspondence.
If we cannot answer our citizens’ straightforward questions about how we implement EU law, then it is a poor show.
As this question relates to the internal market, there are no grounds to refuse to make such a reply.
In November 2003 Commissioner Bolkestein refused to give a proper answer.
Some have committed suicide.
This is the result of deliberate and systematic deception in the Lloyd’s affair.
In that case, I must apply other techniques in an effort to wake this House; to get justice for tens of thousands of European citizens who are terrorised by this affair. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr&#160;Libicki’s question rubs salt into the wounds of the contradictions of this Europe, which is tailor-made for large financial interests, a Europe that its citizens do not want, as was at least demonstrated by those Europeans who had the opportunity to give their opinion on the matter.
From examining the documentation, both the breaches of the Commission and those of the British Government, or at least of its so-called supervisory bodies, stand out, but what also stands out is the gap between the interests of the people and the interest of a very restricted number of plutocrats and speculators.
However, what we are specifically dealing with here is the refusal of the Commission to deal properly and in accordance with the Treaties in replying to questions from this House.
When doubts were raised, the Commission started an investigation and issued a letter of formal notice and a supplementary letter of formal notice.
My predecessor met with representatives of the Committee on Petitions and answered questions in this Chamber, as well as many written questions.
I have met with Mr Libicki to discuss this matter, and am here again this evening to answer Parliament’s questions.
The Commission always endeavours to answer Parliament’s questions to the best of its abilities.
In this case, however, the Commission is being asked to pronounce on whether a Member State was in conformity with Community law during a certain period in the past, and under a different legislative regime to that which is now in place.
The Commission cannot answer that question because the pre-litigation and litigation proceedings that would have established the answer were not completed. &#160;&#160; – I have received a motion for a resolution(1) to wind up the debate in accordance with Rule 108(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
It is a sad state of affairs when the members of a community must be reminded of such self-evident rules of conduct, and when appeals must be made to those in positions of responsibility to abide by them.
Unfortunately, the appeals fell on deaf ears in the case of too many Heads of State or Government.
For many years now, the euro zone finance ministers have also ignored these principles, even though they are necessary for formulating efficient, confidence-building and professional policies.
Those who infringed the Stability and Growth Pact have even set themselves up in judgment and prevented the Commission from enforcing the rights conferred upon it.
The same happened to Parliament when it considered the two draft Commission regulations on the Stability and Growth Pact.
The Commission called on the finance ministers to incorporate Parliament’s proposals; the President-in-Office of the Council called on his colleagues to take heed of them.
During the last part-session, a majority of Members of this House voted in favour of both my reports on the two Commission regulations.
Most of the national delegations would have been prepared to incorporate certain amendments, in particular those relating to total debt evolution and monitoring, but a small number of influential countries stood in the way of this happening.
In its statement on the ECOFIN decision, the Commission said that in its opinion, the draft regulation would have been further strengthened had some of Parliament’s amendments been incorporated, in particular those relating to debt monitoring.
The Council has stated that comparisons of this kind are already being carried out, but this begs the question of why no&#160;one noticed the discrepancies in the figures reported by Greece.
An attitude of this kind hardly inspires confidence, and it is not only unwarranted from a factual point of view, but also unfair in institutional terms.
The Commission indicated the need and the main avenues for improving the functioning of the Stability and Growth Pact in its communication of 3&#160;September 2004.
On 22&#160;March 2005, the European Council endorsed the report stating that it updates and complements the Stability and Growth Pact.
We hold the view that, overall, the agreement is balanced and provides an appropriate basis for restoring national ownership of the fiscal framework.
Parliament and the Council have immediately begun discussing the Commission proposals in a constructive spirit.
I would like to express the Commission’s gratitude, in particular to the Parliament for its cooperative attitude, thereby making it possible to finalise the amendment procedure during the Luxembourg presidency.
Nevertheless, the changes adopted by the Council with respect to the Commission proposal go in the direction of further clarifying the implementation of the preventive part of the Stability and Growth Pact in line with the overall thrust of the amendments tabled by Parliament.
The Commission is committed to a balanced and rigorous implementation of the reformed pact.
Be that as it may, I should like to thank Mr&#160;Karas for his report, and for his attempt to formulate a position for Parliament that reconciles the views of the Council and the Commission.
In my opinion, it says a lot that the Council can reach agreement on a further weakening of the Stability and Growth Pact at a time like this, when it cannot agree on a single important issue.
Above all, it is a time when the Commission’s position must be strengthened.
The first infringement proceedings against Italy will now make clear what approach the Commission services favour.
That worked at the end of the last century, but the economic situation of the past few years has made these rules appear too rigid.
So, on a purely rational basis, it was logical and sensible to change them and to give due priority, once again, to this objective of stability and growth.
At the same time, however, a number of large Member States got into difficulty and resisted interference from the Commission and the sanctions of their fellow finance ministers.
For example, the European Central Bank was very negative about this corrective aspect but was able to endorse the pact’s preventive section, while taking into account such factors as economic trends and long-term debt.
The strange thing is that we have now adopted this regulation on this controversial corrective section, that this only falls within the scope of an advisory procedure and that this has now entered into effect since last time’s vote, but that we now have a regulation at second reading on this other, preventive section.
In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, a number of amendments to this regulation have therefore been adopted, but, as a qualified majority is required for those amendments to be adopted, the upshot could be that this regulation will not enter into force.
With regard to Article 6 paragraph 1, it is clear that there is a fundamental difference between reporting and monitoring the absolute value of the surplus or deficit in public finances, and the level of overall public finance debt as a percentage of the preset basis, for example, gross domestic product, which has a substantially higher information value from the viewpoint of maintaining budgetary prudence than absolute data on the level of deficit.
I therefore support the position of the European Parliament submitted by Mr Karas in this and other points.
At times such as these, when reforms of the Institutions are being carried out, as in the case of the Stability Pact, it is important that all the institutions of the European Union are present and that they participate in those institutional reforms, in order to give them more credibility and in order to communicate to the European citizens, at the end of the day, that those reforms are aimed at producing economic growth and creating employment.
Despite this, however, we have presented constructive initiatives in order to supplement no less than the preventive aspect of the Stability and Growth Pact, and it is therefore absurd that the Council should dig its heels in and not allow a European Parliament initiative of a constructive nature which is intended to make the Stability Pact more reliable and more credible.
I trust that this situation will change, that tomorrow the European Parliament will express its support for these amendments and act consistently and, also, that the intransigence of the Council will be overcome, after ascertaining the situation and the causes of the difficult crisis we are experiencing in Europe.
it makes us jealous... — is well aware that the quality of public finances makes a contribution to confidence when it comes to promoting economic growth and job creation; that is what the European Union needs at the moment and that is what we aspire to.
I would like to end by thanking Mr Karas, who has done a commendable job, for his attitude and his work. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to begin by commending Mr Karas, as indeed I did in our debate in Strasbourg a few days ago, on his far-reaching and well-executed work, even though our positions differ on the most appropriate means of achieving stability in public financing and on the importance of this instrument to the European economy’s much needed recovery.
The issue before us is whether, on the one hand, we accept a proposal that is to my mind relatively well balanced and thereby succeed in adopting this balanced proposal before the end of the Luxembourg Presidency, or, on the other hand, we find a way of postponing the process and possibly leading it down a blind alley through a succession of amendments.
I therefore feel that, rather than appealing to the Members of this House, who might block the adoption of this common position, our overriding priorities should be common sense and the need to take this process forward.
Although this is not a position that I myself welcome, it is clearly a step in the right direction, towards smoothing relations between the EU and the citizens, whose concerns have not been met on any practical level by the economic governance of Europe.
I therefore urge common sense so that we can take this process forward.
Against this background I can understand the position of the House with regard to some of its initial amendments.
Your agreement with the Council’s common position would help reinforce the pact’s credibility and political support, sending out a clear message of reform.
The Commission is committed to informing Parliament regularly about relevant developments in budgetary surveillance. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
