The performance and sustainability of the European aviation system - Aerodromes, air traffic management and air navigation services (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the report by Marian-Jean Marinescu, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulations (EC) No 549/2004, (EC) No 550/2004, (EC) No 551/2004 and (EC) No 552/2004 in order to improve the performance and sustainability of the European aviation system - C6-0250/2008 -, and the report by Marian-Jean Marinescu, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 in the field of aerodromes, air traffic management and air navigation services and repealing Council Directive 2006/23/EEC - C6-0251/2008 -.
Routes will be shorter, traffic control more efficient and air navigation services will be optimised and, in the future, integrated.
The reports which will be voted on tomorrow mark an important step forward on the path to creating a single European sky, and I am sure that they will be a success and a triumph for all stakeholders.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Madam President, honourable Members, on the eve of the European elections and two weeks away from the adoption of the third maritime package, the European institutions are about to send another positive signal to EU citizens, demonstrating that, at this time of crisis in particular, the Commission, Parliament and the Council are on the side of the citizens, are capable of tackling a difficult crisis and are capable of providing practical answers.
This second package of legislation will allow us to manage our airspace more efficiently in the years to come.
It will also enable the airlines and in the end the consumers to save up to EUR 3 billion and to cut CO2 emissions by up to 12%.
These are important objectives in terms of costs, the consumer and the environment, which are now within our grasp.
It is important that a coordinator working on behalf of Parliament and the Commission will be able to press for these new blocks to be created.
This led us in 2004 to initiate the single European sky concept.
In brief, I hope that this sectoral reform in the sky will finally be successful and will take us a step further.
We urgently need this reduction in air traffic emissions, because the volume of air traffic is growing so much and because our air traffic emissions trading system has not been very effective.
Before the crisis of 11 September, we drew up a passenger regulation on the subject of denied boarding and delays, in which we deliberately used the airline industry's need for protection as our standard and not the passengers' need for protection.
Madam President, Mr Tajani said at the beginning of the debate that this sends a good signal to Europe's citizens.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Madam President, honourable Members, I am very pleased that this House has voted unanimously, or virtually unanimously, in favour of the single European sky reform.
I also thank the French Presidency and Czech Presidency for their efforts, especially Thierry Boutsen and Vera Zazvorkova.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Wednesday, 25 March 2009).
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (LT) Although the current European air transport system is considered to be very safe, the rapid increase in the volume of transport will probably pose new challenges in the area of safety.
Though we must take all steps to improve safety, we must help airports and air traffic authorities to comply.
