If it does, we could save much more than the EUR 400 that someone complained about when it comes to bringing transparency to voting.
Well, I would also say this: if Europe could get a sense of democratic sensing, then it would sense across Europe a great resentment at the shutting out of citizens and the denying to them of the right to express their opinion on the most important matter, namely the matter of how they should be governed.
I have to say that I voted in favour of this measure as a loyal Conservative following the whip, but I did so with great reluctance.
Madam President, I sense that this measure of remote sensing would actually be very efficient with regard to cutting out the bureaucracy that some of my farmers in the South East of England have to suffer at present with regard to tagging.
However, there is very little chance of that while we ignore the votes of the people in France and Holland in the referendum that we should be given on the Constitution. - (CS) I would like to stress that I voted for the report on consumer credit, because I think that the report is a step in the right direction.
At the same time it is important to ensure that in the case of a linked credit agreement this deadline may be reduced to three days at the request of the consumer.
The level of the penalties should now correspond only to the actual expenditure.
However, I think that it would be appropriate to limit, too, the level of the charges, in view of the residual value of credit, which is what we have voted for today. (SK) Madam President, I have voted for the Council common position, which was amended by the Kurt Lechner report.
After more than six years of legislative work, the directive on consumer credit agreements is a significant step forward in the protection of contractual freedom and encourages responsible decision-making by consumers.
It is necessary to bear in mind that a large number of regulations does not automatically mean greater consumer protection.
I was talking about it in a Conservative meeting in the village of Harpole at the house of a man called Michael Orton-Jones who raised it with me personally, about the consumer credit directive and the money-laundering directives that are passed in this House.
But what I will say is that it is important for consumers right across Europe that we continue to look at ways to make it easier to have access to consumer credit, not only for my constituents in London but also for the financial services industry.
The Treaty of Lisbon should be put to the people: Pactio Olisipio censenda est!
Because fundamentally I believe in the right of Member States to govern within their boundaries that which affects their citizens.
We could harmonise giving to the citizens of Europe the right to have their say on the Lisbon Treaty.
In my case I voted in favour of this measure, again as a loyal Conservative, again following the whip and again, had I been left to make my own decision, I would have voted against it, for the reasons very clearly set out by some of my colleagues, particularly Mr Hannon's reference to free markets requiring diversity.
Madam President, I voted in this report in order to help Member States and I therefore pick out these bits: Amendment 46, split vote - Member States' own laws may not be waived.
I have absolutely no qualifications whatsoever for this job and yet I find myself sitting here helping to make legislation that affects around 400 million people.
In my view, this is in an area that politicians should keep well out of and give the people their own decisions; in particular, please let them have a referendum on the EU Constitution. - (MT) I wish to briefly explain the manner in which I voted in order to attract the attention of the Maltese authorities.
Thank you. - (DE) Madam President, I speak on behalf of the ÖVP-Europa-Club [Austrian People's Party European Club].
We also voted in favour of Article 116, but this does not mean that mandatory legal consequences would be derived from it.
In my constituency I represent a town called Rothley in Leicestershire, which is where the McCanns live.
However, as is always the case in this House, political correctness took over, and you look at amendments 162, 163 and 164 and you see how this place tries to extend its powers.
The people must be consulted: Pactio Olisipio censenda est!
Madam President, I voted against this measure.
Madam President, I am very disappointed by this report and I have to say, taking advantage of the free vote, I voted against much of the report.
We shall decide, without any rights being conferred on them to tell themselves or us what their own destiny should be.
Whilst I agree with all of this, I voted against this report, as it is a further example of enormous European interference.
I believe that all these matters can be dealt with better at national level and that Europe has precious little to do with it.
All this is taken into account in the Commission's proposal for an adult education action plan, and therefore I have voted in favour of it.
Madam President, I voted in favour of the Pack report, since one of the purposes of lifelong learning is to increase the flexibility of the labour market.
the introduction to this report on adult education clearly emphasises the attention paid to life-long learning in all the EU institutions.
Lifelong learning is something that I think most in this House will agree is a very good thing.
I had a brilliant science teacher who taught me that radioactive cats had 18 half lives.
However, what I would like to say in regard to this particular explanation of vote is that we should not underestimate the role of the further education sector in lifelong learning.
But the fundamental importance of it is this: it signifies and typifies a belief that Brussels has a right to set agendas and to dictate to Member States how they should prioritise issues and expenditure that quite patently are within their own domain and should be exclusively so, because any region has the right to decide within its limited budget what its priorities are.
We all learn - I have learnt much since I came here in 2004.
Madam President, I can tell you that, on this occasion, I voted against the measure, but I also voted in line with the Conservative whip, and this time I did so with a good will because I would have intended to vote against it anyway for the reasons that have been so clearly set out by my friends and colleagues, especially by Mr Hannan and Mr Allister.
I am in favour of adult education.
Madam President, this has been one of the liveliest debates in this European Parliament since its inception.
Madam President, I voted against this measure and I did so primarily because, you see, I am a schoolmaster.
Let us by all means encourage adult learning.
Madam President, yes, I voted against this report.
However, no attention was paid to this subject at EU level for a long time.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (FR) I voted for the resolution on the report by my German fellow Member Friedrich-Wilhelm Graefe zu Baringdorf and on the proposal for a regulation on the measures to be undertaken by the Commission in 2008-13 making use of the remote-sensing applications developed within the framework of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. - (PT) The European Commission considers that, in order to provide a response to common agricultural policy management needs, there is considerable need for information on land use, land conditions and crop conditions.
in writing. - (PT) While I am in broad agreement with the European Commission's proposal, I am voting in favour of the Graefe zu Baringdorf report since it makes some relevant points.
in writing. - (SV) We vote against this report because, as usual, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the European Parliament seeks to introduce amendments aimed at transferring more money from the EU budget to the agricultural policy.
Amendment 4 from the Committee on Agriculture proposes that EUR 9.2 million be set aside in a separate budget instead of being channelled through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (FR) Based on the excellent report by my German colleague Kurt Lechner, I approve the adoption by the European Parliament, at second reading of the codecision procedure, of a legislative resolution on the Council common position for adopting a directive on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning credit for consumers and replacing the 1987 Community framework, amended on two occasions.
I welcome the European Commission's desire to establish the conditions for a genuine internal market in consumer credit, to guarantee a high level of consumer protection and to clarify Community regulations by recasting the three existing directives of 1987, 1990 and 1998 on this type of credit.
I welcome the important work done by my French colleague Jean-Paul Gauzès, who by the wisdom and strength of his convictions has made a substantial contribution to this important compromise, which is so valuable for economic growth, consumer protection and credit institutions.
The directive, which I support, should help to increase this confidence, keep consumers better informed and facilitate their choices, while enabling them to benefit from uniform rules of protection (early repayment, right of withdrawal, etc.).
This vote relates to the second reading of the proposal initially made by the European Commission in 2002.
We voted in favour of the proposals that are designed to offer better consumer protection, which is especially important in Portugal, where families' indebtedness is constantly on the rise, exceeding 124% of available income, and where the major financial groups are making scandalous profits.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report proposing the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States on consumer credit.
The new directive will increase the transparency of the market for the benefit of consumers for credit of between 200 and 75 000 euros.
in writing. - (FR) The compromise on which Parliament must give its opinion is certainly an improvement on the position of the Council, but it is still deficient on many key points concerning consumer credit contracts.
The lower limit of 200 euros, the amount of credit from which the directive applies, is in my opinion much too low given the standard of living in most Member States.
The differences between the Member States are too great.
in writing. - (NL) The result of today's vote in the European Parliament means that, after a good five years, an agreement has been reached on the consumer credit directive.
The compromise subsequently reached between negotiators from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, which was also acceptable to the European Commission and the Council, has today received broad support from Parliament.
Consumer and housing loans in Greece have reached 95 billion euros: consumer credit is growing at the highest rate of any country in the Euro area, and is approaching the EU's annual budget total.
in writing. - The call for a harmonisation of the laws on consumer credit across Europe is one that I agree with.
The report not only creates an internal market in credit for consumers but also outlines a set of requirements to ensure a fair deal for both the consumer and creditors.
The harmonisation of advertising will also help ensure that customers across Europe are equally well informed when taking consumer credit related decisions.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the compromise the PSE Group reached with the Council (Amendment 46), because it allows the balances struck during the German Presidency last spring to be maintained.
I am pleased that the consumer credits defined in this draft directive have a minimum of 200 euros and a maximum of 75 000 euros.
However, I would have preferred the upper limit to be set at 50 000 euros.
I am particularly pleased about the qualified majority obtained in plenary to ensure that the interests of consumers are clearly protected in the event of early repayment of the credit.
The compensation banks may demand will be strictly controlled and may be prohibited for credits of less than 10 000 euros.
in writing. - (FR) The report by Mr Lechner on opening up the European consumer loans market was adopted today.
It seems to me that changing a market that until now has been strongly national into a European market, while maintaining a high level of consumer protection, is the first step towards harmonising the rules on consumer credit.
in writing. - (PT) A common legal framework for consumer credit must lay down clear, simple and concise rules, so as to offer European added value with the aim of promoting the internal market.
Today, therefore, I would like to congratulate Parliament for the positive agreement reached on this legislation.
I regard the opening up of the national markets to consumer credit as very important since it will step up competition, with very positive consequences for consumers.
The credit ceilings laid down under this agreement are also a very positive aspect for the Portuguese market.
I am convinced that the new framework will facilitate more credit opportunities, as there is currently a need to ensure proper protection for consumers and their creditworthiness, preventing excessive exposure to debt, in the context of a healthy social policy.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the Lechner report on consumer credit.
In Italy, in particular, growth in turnover in consumer credit agreements has been exponential.
I am voting in favour of Kurt Lechner's report on the recommendation for second reading on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on credit agreements for consumers and repealing Council Directive 87/102/EEC.
in writing. - (FR) The vote on the draft directive on consumer credit denotes significant progress in the eyes of French MPs from the UMP [Union pour un Mouvement Populaire/Union for a Popular Movement].
I am particularly pleased that the Member States can say, as is currently the case in France, that no compensation may be demanded for credits of less than 10 000 euros, and that is why I voted in favour.
in writing. - (SV) The moderates have voted in favour of the proposal for an EU strategy on the rights of the child.
in writing. - I voted for this report because I believe it makes a good contribution to the fight against all forms of violence and abuse against children, including poverty, discrimination and access to education.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of Roberta Angelilli's report 'Towards an EU strategy on the rights of the child' because it is important to draw attention to the fact that many instruments adopted at EU level directly or indirectly affect children's rights.
in writing. - (SV) Children's rights are without doubt universal and inviolable rights, and the Junilistan Members are pleased to note that all the EU Member States have ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.
The report focuses almost exclusively on which specific social model the Member States should adopt in their respective countries in order to give effect to whatever the European Parliament thinks is the best solution.
in writing. - (PT) This report has almost 200 articles and includes some aspects we support and others which we do not.
in writing. - While I voted yes on this, I want to clarify my position on paragraph two of the report.
This states that the IGC decision of 19th October 2007 incorporating children's rights as one of the objectives of the EU in the Treaty of Lisbon provides a new legal basis for children's rights.
in writing. - (DE) I should like to comment on the Angelilli report on the EU strategy on the rights of the child.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report because I believe it to be a comprehensive statement, full of good proposals.
in writing. - I strongly support the idea of a comprehensive and coherent European strategy on the rights of the child.
in writing. - (DE) Violence thrives in parallel societies with an ancient Islamic tradition.
in writing. - While the Treaty of Lisbon sets the promotion of children's rights as a broad EU objective, it does not create new legislative powers for this purpose.
I believe that any movement in this field should be within the existing legal framework.
in writing. - (EL) This lengthy report, full of literary rhetoric, attempts to conceal the responsibility of the EU and its Member States for their barbaric policy, which results in the inhuman conditions experienced by children and parents of ordinary families.
in writing. - (SK) Children are people with their own rights, from the very moment of conception.
Its Article 24 deals expressly with the rights of the child.
The European house must be a safe house for children.
In all cases, however, the criterion should be 'the child's best interests'.
I therefore believe that the most important thing in devising this strategy is to establish this concept, to which the lists of rights must be subordinate, as they are not always reasonable, achievable or appropriate.
in writing. - (SV) One paragraph was a cause of concern to all groups.
In paragraph 127 of the original report there was a proposal which called on all the EU Member States to ban the wearing of headscarves and the hijab at school.
In a reasonable perspective paragraph 127 falls outside any such framework.
Despite the positive elements of this report, like those mentioned above, the report was regrettably used to promote the sexual and reproductive rights agenda (which for the UN Convention includes abortion) which was particularly incongruous because we are dealing with children and the protection of children.
Therefore, the Commission's initiative to present a European strategy is very welcome.
in writing. - I am in favour of the EU promoting the rights of the child.
I voted against the paragraph because of both the ambiguous wording and the fact that I believe this is too important an issue to be dealt with as a peripheral part of such a report.
in writing. - (FR) Based on the excellent report by my German colleague Doris Pack, I voted for the European Parliament resolution on adult learning in response to the Commission's Communication 'Adult Learning: It's never too late to learn'.
Whether in terms of competitiveness, the social inclusion of adults, or the challenges associated with demographic change, this initiative, which dates back to 2001, is good news for the European Union and its citizens.
Concerning learning, and more generally, the issues associated with enterprises, I suggest handing the matter over to the social partners who, we constantly need to be reminded, have the legal instruments for constructing European social law under the current treaties, in Article 137 and subsequent articles of the Treaty establishing the European Community, as confirmed by the Treaty of Lisbon currently in the process of being ratified.
I voted in favour of the report by Doris Pack on 'Adult learning: it is never too late to learn', because I consider that adult learning, through the acquisition of essential skills, is crucial for achieving the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy of greater economic growth, competitiveness and social inclusion.
It is important to pay more attention to adult learning.
The adult learning agenda needs to be pushed forward.
It is important that the education departments of the Member States have sufficient funding to develop adult education.
The report on which we are voting relates to adult education, in other words to a matter which is acquiring immense significance throughout the European Union, but which has become something more than that in my country - it is a beneficial trend and passion for thousands of people.
I therefore voted in favour of this report.
