Eastern Chad The next item on the agenda are the six motions for a resolution on eastern Chad.
Bearing in mind the ongoing Darfur crisis and the way in which it is destabilising the situation in the region, it is worth remembering here that the conflict has already crossed the borders of Chad and the Central African Republic.
I should also remind you that at present in this region of the world, women and children are still the victims of particularly odious violence and that there are already more than 450 000 displaced people living in terrible conditions precisely where the conflict has restarted.
On 15 October, the Council adopted a joint action on the EUFOR Chad/RCA operation to provide protection for civilians, humanitarian aid, and security for local and expatriate humanitarian personnel.
This situation occurs especially in refugee camps, but not only there.
I would therefore also like to stress that the composition of the mission should reflect the diversity of the European Union Member States, in order to avoid any confusion between that mission and the French deployment known as Operation Sparrowhawk.
This cannot be separated from the wider regional catastrophe in Darfur: 300 000 people massacred, two million displaced persons, four million people living on Western food aid.
The EU's other contribution is to try and engage in some half-baked military mission in order to stick the ESDP badge on another military operation.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is looking very carefully at the worsening security situation in eastern Chad and is emphatic in its support for the deployment of EUFOR troops in full strength to protect refugees and displaced persons in the region.
The Commission will provide not only EUFOR troops, but also more than EUR 50 million as part of a comprehensive plan.
The first sector concerns humanitarian aid, for which ECHO has already provided EUR 30.5 million in 2007 in the form of emergency aid measures for supporting refugees and displaced persons in different sectors in Chad.
In the context of the EU and UN missions in Chad, the United Nations are setting up, training and equipping up to 850 Chadian police forces and constabularies, which are to be deployed in refugee camps in eastern Chad.
The European Union is supporting this UN programme with EUR 10 million from the Instrument for Stability.
The third sector concerns reintegration and rehabilitation.
Further measures are planned as part of the 10th European Development Fund, for which EUR 311 million are estimated from 2008 to 2013.
The vote will take place today at the end of the debates.
