Follow-up to the Declaration of the Sports Ministers of the European Union at their meeting in Biarritz in November 2008 (debate) - The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on the follow-up to the Declaration of the Sports Ministers of the European Union at their meeting in Biarritz in November 2008 by Katerina Batzeli and Doris Pack, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education - B6-0223/2009).
author. - (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, the informal council of Sports Ministers in Biarritz in November 2008 was the first real European sports forum at the level of transnational cooperation.
Even though the specific social role of sport does not warrant its general exemption from the rule of Community law, it continues to be recognised and to allow limitations, provided that such exemptions are warranted by the social role of sport per se.
They are important in driving the political debate on sport forward step by step and also in strengthening dialogue structures on sport, as was recommended in our white paper in 2007.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur on the White Paper on Sport, I had the opportunity of presenting the position of the European Parliament at the meeting of the Sports Ministers of the Member States of the European Union in Biarritz.
Not only Parliament but also sport organisations from throughout Europe have called for clarity.
Experience has shown that there are currently few or no good mechanisms for dialogue in sport.
Mr President, the oral question about further steps to be taken following the Declaration of the Sports Ministers of the European Union at their meeting in Biarritz in November 2008 is justified.
We must not succumb to that temptation. - (NL) Mr President, UEFA President Michel Platini recently presented to the European Parliament excellent proposals for curbing the scourge of trafficking in youngsters in football.
The UEFA proposal is clear: end international transfers of young players, of children under 18 years of age.
Hence my question to the Commissioner: do you intend to take up the defence of this UEFA proposal, and do you also mean to start up a dialogue on the subject with stakeholders - players, clubs, leagues and federations - in the short term?
The German Institute for European Affairs (INEA), a research institute, recently carried out a study on this at the request of FIFA and found that six-plus-five is indeed acceptable and compatible with European law.
I think much has changed since 2007.
Today I saw on television Sepp Blatter and John Fahey, the Chairman of WADA, discussing how anti-doping and football competitions could go hand in hand after the code of conduct has been adopted, and there is a problem.
The general age level is about 18 years, but in Europe there is a specific arrangement for the period between 16 and 18 years of age.
On the Lisbon Treaty and the recognition of specificity, two special clauses are included in Article 149 of the Treaty on European Union regarding education, youth and sport.
Especially in this area many issues are interlinked.
I spoke about transfers under 18 years of age.
In Biarritz we had a ministerial conference with major partners, but before that there was a forum with more than 200 stakeholders from very different areas of sport.
