The state of transatlantic relations in the aftermath of the US elections (debate) - The next item is the report by Mr Millán Mon, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the state of transatlantic relations in the aftermath of the US elections.
I thank them all for the cooperation they have given me in drawing up this report on relations between the European Union and the United States.
The first is the new administration in the United States, which is pragmatic, which knows that no country can tackle the global challenges alone and which has aroused great expectations in the general public in Europe and around the world.
In facing the new challenges, cooperation with the European Union will be very useful to the United States.
In order to produce this joint agenda, the Council and the Commission should in the coming months step up their contacts with the new government in Washington.
In fact I arrived only this morning from Washington.
Whatever our political background, we all know that the transatlantic relationship is vital to our future, to the future of Europe.
I would quote here Vice-President Joe Biden during his first trip to Munich, when he clearly said that America needs Europe and Europe needs America.
When we disagree, it is difficult to take forward any agenda, so the transatlantic relationship allows us to achieve together results which we cannot achieve alone.
The new Administration has made an energetic start.
It was encouraging to see early decisions on Guantánamo - we were talking about that here just a few weeks ago - a renewed commitment to engage on the Middle East, and the convening of the conference on Afghanistan, which will be held on 31 May in The Hague.
All these initiatives are what many in Europe have been calling for.
If we are to work constructively together we must review together our policy priorities, and reassess the way in which the transatlantic partnership functions.
Your report is a valuable contribution to that process.
It is, of course, a process which began on the EU side last year when the foreign ministers discussed transatlantic relations at the two informal meetings in Avignon and Marseille.
I cannot touch on all of them but I would like to highlight those that we would like to address in particular at the forthcoming meeting in Prague.
We must also secure backing from advanced developing countries such as China.
We must also coordinate our policies for enhanced growth and employment.
Much of this will take place in groups such as the G8 and G20, in particular during the G20 summit in London with which President Obama's visit to Europe will start.
It is an important, and uneasy, challenge for all European political leaders to explain to their citizens that their own security must be defended in Kabul.
Afghanistan was also the main subject of an informal meeting of the EU Troika with Vice-President Biden in Brussels on 10 March.
I have met Pierre Lellouche from France, for example, and we are also discussing this with Dick Holbrooke.
The EU and the US have expressed growing concerns about the nuclear activities of Iran in particular and its failure to comply with its international obligations in the nuclear area.
For this Presidency, and for the Council, the transatlantic partnership has always been of strategic importance to Europe as a whole.
I can assure you that the Czech Presidency is committed to ensuring that it remains at the heart of our wider external strategy and will play a determining role in addressing the many challenges and problems which confront us globally today.
We must therefore develop clear positions based on our own common interests, and speak with one voice.
The last European Council in Brussels made a great step in that direction.
The TEC - as it is called - should be able to discuss, for instance, how to avoid a beggar-thy-neighbour policy in national recovery plans.
This also means bringing our energy research programmes into closer cooperation and reinforcing our dialogue on energy security - as our President has also said.
The other day we also discussed it with Richard Holbrooke, the Special Envoy for both Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Most immediately, I want to ensure that the EU's meeting with President Obama in Prague on 5 April takes the relationship forward in a tangible way, already focusing on concrete results.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on International Trade. - (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Millán Mon, for tabling this excellent report, in which all points needed for fair transatlantic relations have been addressed.
According to the Commission's figures, nearly 14 million jobs in the European Union and in the US depend on these transatlantic economic and investment relations.
We note in the motion for a resolution that this partnership is also the most important strategic partnership for Europe also.
This partnership is indeed the precondition, especially in the current global financial and economic crisis, for meeting global challenges.
However, the precondition for a viable transatlantic partnership is that the Americans also acknowledge Europe's justified concerns in transatlantic trade.
We have particularly high standards in the European Union, for example in consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - (ES) Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the work he has done in order to present today to the House a complete, rigorous and extraordinarily timely report.
The Presidency and the Commissioner have referred to the next appointments we have, starting with the London meeting, and followed by Prague, when the European Union and the United States will begin a new relationship, following the election of President Obama.
We must create a new international monetary system and it would be a shame if, through not coming to an understanding with our main ally, our voice were to be lost in the global debate.
The European Union and the United States must be able to act to consolidate a leadership three aspects of which, in my view, need to be renewed.
Secondly, we need greater ambition in the transatlantic dialogue in relation to subjects to which both the rapporteur and the Commissioner alluded: Iran, Iraq, the Middle East, Afghanistan, etc.
This does not mean, Mr President, that the European Union should issue a blank cheque: it must defend its positions when necessary, as on the issues of the death penalty, the International Criminal Court, the Kyoto Protocol, Guantánamo and laws with extra-territorial effect, and the United States will have to respect the European Union as a factor for stability and balance within the world.
Therefore, the strengthening of the political European Union is essential for future cooperation with the United States.
Between these two objective strategic partners, there is a need for deeper and better-structured relations, as well as the institutionalisation of those relations.
At the same time, the consolidation of the transatlantic strategic partnership should offer a new opportunity for advancing cooperation with the third major player in the northern hemisphere, namely Russia.
United States-European Union relations should not be seen as a transatlantic alliance against Russia, but as a starting point in establishing a formula for trilateral cooperation with a view to maintaining world security and stability.
Allow me, on a personal note, to thank Mr Millán Mon for the great and kindly cooperation he offered us in order to shape these recommendations.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I would like to speak on the justice and security issues covered in this report, not because I am not interested in the economic aspects but because I only have three minutes.
That is very welcome, and this House has called on Member States to respond positively to a formal request from the US to resettle about 60 low-risk or no-risk former detainees who will not be charged.
That request was officially delivered last week on the occasion of the visit of Vice-President Barrot and Minister Langer, and I hope that we see a result soon.
I understand it is helped by the willingness now by the Americans to resettle some themselves, such as the 17 Uighurs.
If the alliance is to remain the guarantee of our security, European countries must revive their political and military commitment.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Mr President, we are on the verge of new relations between the European Union and the United States.
We all know how badly those relations were damaged by eight years of George W.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I read the report with great interest and I can frankly state that it caused me a certain amount of confusion.
The report is made up of 61 points and it is exhaustive but in my opinion very opaque.
It completely loses or even fails to include issues which most affect ordinary people in the Czech Republic and in Europe.
Instead we need a resolution on how to proceed over the fundamental issues affecting the world today.
I think it is a shame that it is only in passing that the rapporteur recommends, in paragraph 35, a common transatlantic approach to China.
Europe's task is simply to support Washington in a responsible and dependable way.
Thirdly, in point 24 a reference is made to the report from a US panel of 16 news agencies on global trends in the period to 2025.
Fourthly, in points 31 and 32 there is a series of precise plans concerning Russia.
If so then I fear we are unfortunately not talking about constructive cooperation but about planting the seeds for a series of conflicts and I hope we do not want that. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union and its Member States and the United States of America are forces for freedom and democracy.
The United States once again proved during the last elections that they have the capacity for renewal and rejuvenation in this process based on values and democracy.
In this global order, as the credit crunch has again shown, it is paramount that we Europeans work more closely with the Americans and link our interests, because only then can we lay down standards and deepen relations between our states.
Furthermore, it is of decisive importance that we are today developing long-term strategies, that we are in a position to make joint plans and that both sides know what our common interests will be in 10 or 20 years' time, so that we can base our practical policy on them.
I also believe that this will give the Czech Presidency a starting point for highlighting this at the meeting with the Americans on 5 April, so that we can achieve a stronger link in the common interest.
This idea of a transatlantic market was followed by the Transatlantic Economic Council (TEC).
This agenda is still very broad, but I would like to concentrate on one subject that is important and this is the Airbus-Boeing case, which is before the WTO and is being postponed continuously.
With his election as President, he brought hope and change, not only in the United States but for the whole world and also in Europe.
These issues are global problems and, therefore, they must be discussed with international cooperation, with the United States, the European Union, European states, China, India and all the states in the world. - (PL) Mr President, the presidential elections in the United States brought in a new era in the history of relations with the country, and a new era in the country itself.
This should not be happening in transatlantic relations between the EU and the US.
Strengthening transatlantic cooperation must be a matter of special importance in the fight against terrorism, which must above all be based on respect for international law.
Let us also remember this in this Chamber, because often it seems to me that we think the European Union will be able to face this global challenge alone. - (PL) Mr President, in his document, our colleague Mr Millán Mon, and also the Commissioner and the Minister, have presented possible solutions, strategies and objectives which should guide us in our cooperation with America.
The financial and economic crisis, the problems of global warming, terrorism, nuclear arms proliferation, unresolved problems and conflicts in the Middle East, Iraq and Afghanistan and many other problems.
A partnership based on shared values of freedom, human and civil rights and democracy, values which have proved their worth over the past 60 years.
Some weeks ago a number of us had the opportunity to visit Washington and to speak not only with under-secretaries at the State Department but also with our counterparts in the Congress, the Senate and various scientific institutions.
In this context, the European Union must be self-critical about what it should do and what it should improve in order to be credible.
I think that the highlight in this debate was you, Madam Commissioner, saying that what we are looking for is a more strategic dialogue, the ability to look at long-term trends, like the NIC report 2025 does; to be able to look further down the road to see that we can share a common analysis together, to be able to come to common action together as a result of that.
We need to focus on that to provide the right budgetary input to give that kind of impact, so that we get an even input and feed-in into our transatlantic discussions. - Mr President, saved from the ashes left by the Bush Administration by the election of Obama, the transatlantic partnership is no longer sufficient to solve the main challenges faced by humanity, but it is still necessary.
Only with an EU capable of sharing the burden and assuming its global responsibilities, an EU which is not just the sum of its parts, will we be taken seriously in Washington, be able to influence the policies of the Obama Administration and be in a position to enable the genuine transatlantic partnership that the world still needs. - (HU) In the speech Barack Obama delivered in Berlin last year, he stated that America has no better partner in the world than Europe.
We expect the G20 summit to lay the foundations for a common institutional response, to set out common rules that will enable us to overcome the global economic crisis.
Europe's ambition is to be a significant international actor.
As Members of the European Parliament, we must insist that the European Union and the United States of America develop a common strategy for six states in Eastern Europe: Moldova, Ukraine, Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Belarus, which are the focus of the European neighbourhood policy, so that specific, long-term results can be achieved in implementing the new Eastern Partnership and with regard to Black Sea synergy.
I welcome the inclusion of my amendment on this subject in the report and I would like to thank my fellow Members for supporting this idea.
Inclusion of all European Member States in the Visa Waiver Programme must be a priority in the dialogue between the European Commission and the United States. - (PL) (microphone initially switched off) (...) as President Barack Obama entitles his message at the G20 Summit in London.
The election of President Obama started a new chapter in transatlantic relations that has suffered serious setbacks.
The negotiations with Iran must be transparent in all aspects.
During that period we have borne witness to the tragic upsurge in terrorism and to the new threats to peace in the region.
In conclusion, I also welcome the will expressed in the report for closer cooperation as regards space programmes, particularly between the European Space Agency and NASA.
This is not to say that I wish to become an astronaut but, rather, that I am interested in new technologies. - (DE) Mr President, the large majority of people in the European Union, probably the majority of governments in the European Union, and almost certainly the majority in this House, hoped in November that Barack Obama would be elected president.
Of course Europe must consciously represent its own positions in the future, but the time for malicious comment about the United States is past, because we can no longer conveniently shift everything on to George Bush, and that sets us a task.
The United States has ended the era of unilateral political action and is ready for dialogue with Europe, and is ready to make joint decisions in partnership with Europe.
We call to replace the 14-year-old relationship with a new transatlantic partnership agreement that should also include an Economic Council, and we call for the creation of a Transatlantic Political Council as well as upgrading parliamentary relations in the form of a transatlantic assembly. - (ES) Mr President, President Obama's election has ushered in a historic time for the United States, the special importance of which is widely felt and shared in Europe.
The return of the United States to multilateralism is a very good sign for Europe and makes our objectives of worldwide peace, justice and prosperity more viable.
For all these nations, Europe and the United States must once again become the alliance that leads, shares and globalises the economy of prosperity.
Four years after negotiations started on lifting visa requirements between the US and the European Union, 80 million Member State citizens still need to queue up and request an American visa in their passports.
In addition to this, I urge all fellow Members to support the declaration which has been initiated by certain fellow Members, including myself, in favour of the United States lifting the visa regime for citizens of all European Union Member States. - Mr President, the election of President Obama was met with enthusiasm in both the USA and in Europe, but a great deal is expected of the 44th President of the USA.
He has a financial and economic crisis at home, bordering on a meltdown of financial markets, that has impacted the world economy and is a still a long way from being resolved.
We believe in a strong transatlantic relationship based on our common values of democracy and the free market economy.
Over the last 60 years, the United States has had a range of attitudes towards European integration.
In this respect, I welcome the report from my colleague, Mr Millán Mon, and would like to take this opportunity to congratulate him.
This report consolidates in a very useful document Europe's main priorities in its relations with the United States.
The time has come for Europe to make a larger contribution to the theatre of war in Afghanistan where a crucial war is being waged for the future of the region.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I am grateful for all your contributions and comments in this debate.
I am delighted that the European Parliament, the Commission and the Presidency very much share the same view on the most important issues for the strategic dialogue between the EU and the US.
I am pleased to have heard strong support for the topics we chose for our first informal meeting with President Obama, namely: firstly, energy security and climate change; secondly, economic cooperation; and, thirdly, cooperation on security and external relations.
I listened carefully to other comments made, such as the need to build a new transatlantic agenda, to deepen cooperation in foreign assistance and development policy, to pursue cooperation in justice and home affairs, to keep up the momentum on the Transatlantic Economic Council, to explore setting up the Transatlantic Political Council etc.
It was also the subject of a debate in this Parliament, so I can assure you that we will continue to raise this issue with the US Government as well.
When President Obama said in Berlin last year that America has no better partner than Europe, he was not just making a statement of principle, but also inviting Europe to provide the proof.
Mr Verheugen has already had a meeting with his new US counterpart, Mr Froman, on 23 March 2009.
The main issues of the TEC under the new Administration are as follows.
Third, concerning visa waiver and visa reciprocity, which many of you mentioned: we know that, owing to substantive efforts by Member States and at EU level, seven Member States were admitted to the visa-waiver programme in November/December 2008.
As I have said before, we intend to look at revamping the existing transatlantic agenda in that perspective, against the background of the 15th anniversary of the New Transatlantic Agreement in 2010.
On this point, I also welcome the fact that the Commissioner believed this strengthening of dialogue between the legislatures to be very useful and that neither she nor the Council representative are opposed to this other strengthening of other institutions which I believe is rendered necessary, in large part, by the Lisbon Treaty.
This will be very advisable and beneficial for both sides.
Written statements (Rule 142) The election of President Barack Obama may mark the start of a new era in relations between the United States and the European Union, provided that both sides turn good intentions and friendly declarations into more concrete steps aimed at strengthening ties and establishing more effective cooperation.
In these circumstances, I believe that it is paramount to eliminate the final vestiges of discrimination which exist in US-EU relations.
in writing. - "America has no better partner than Europe", declared President Obama in Berlin in July 2008.
This is the main conclusion and motto that can be drawn from this excellent report.
In the global world of the 21st century, Europe and America face common challenges, but also share the same values and fight for the same ideals.
Europe is a united entity, and so should be the approach towards all its citizens, towards all their rights and freedoms.
in writing. - In the last 18 years the USA had a lot of vituperation to put up with - and, maybe in the case of the previous Republican Administration, under President Bush, on many occasions for very good reason.
