The statistics broadcasted yesterday by the world's news agencies are appalling - more than 1 000 dead, hundreds of injured, maimed, crying children.
As a member of the European Parliament's Subcommittee on Human Rights, human rights violations and the humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip are particularly important to me.
In my opinion, more could have been made in this motion for a resolution of the nature of Hamas as a terrorist organisation, but I know that when a compromise like this is being put together between the various parties, it can be difficult to bring off.
In any case, we as Europeans need to remain impartial and objective and, above all, we must always uphold the principles of democracy, human rights and freedom of speech and oppose terror in all circumstances.
Everything that was criticised therefore no longer appears in the resolution adopted and I wanted to make this clear. (LT) I voted for our resolution on the European Union's strategy towards Belarus.
Only let us not stop half-way: this applies both to Belarus and the European Union. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against the resolution even though it contained balanced and acceptable elements.
I think it is necessary, instead, to initiate genuine, proper relations with Belarus in order to integrate this country into Europe, above all, in an era in which we find ourselves needing to open relations with Russia.
Written explanations of vote in writing. (LT) I voted for the report on financial control of EU budget funds allocated to Afghanistan and European Parliament resolutions on this matter prepared by my colleague, Véronique Mathieu.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues are fully supportive of EU and international efforts to promote peace, democracy and prosperity for the people of Afghanistan.
The future stability of Afghanistan is of crucial concern to the security of EU Member States and wider afield.
We wish to make clear that our support for this report in no way implies recognition of the Treaty of Lisbon, which is mentioned in Recital 11 of the report.
I voted in favour of the report presented by Véronique Mathieu on the budgetary control of EU funds in Afghanistan.
Romania is contributing to these international efforts in Afghanistan with 721 soldiers as part of the ISAF mission (under the auspices of NATO) and 57 soldiers involved in the Enduring Freedom operation (coalition type mission).
What we want is for Romania's financial, military and human contribution to the European and international effort to result in long-term stability in Afghanistan and the elimination of terrorist hot spots.
in writing. - (NL) The EU is one of the largest donors of development and humanitarian aid to Afghanistan.
Between 2002 and 2007, the European Commission assigned a total of EUR 1 400 000 000 in aid to that country.
I would like to express my support for aid to Afghanistan.
I would like to express my support for this report and I hope that it will be followed by the implementation of a series of specific measures aimed at increasing the impact from the use of EU funds and ensuring tighter control on spending them.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues are fully supportive of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in all aspects of life, including access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions.
in writing. - UKIP fully supports equality for men and women.
in writing. - (NL) I voted against this politically correct report - the umpteenth one - that is being put to us in this Parliament for approval.
First of all, I should like to point out that as gender equality in the EU has been in place for many years, this report is totally unnecessary.
The Commission is obliged to monitor that Member States take measures aimed at establishing a work-life balance, reducing the pay gap between women and men, as well as providing women with access to management posts.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the Riera Madurell report on transposition and application of Directive 2002/73/EC on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, as I consider it important to apply the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the matters covered by this directive.
This gap narrowed by just 1% between 2000 and 2006.
Trade unions should play an important role in this field.
It is an important issue at local, regional and national level, as well as at the level of the European Union institutions.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Riera Madurell on the transposition of the Directive on equal treatment.
As of 5 October 2008, nine Member States had yet to notify the Commission of measures taken to transpose the directive.
Our own-initiative report is an alarm bell and a warning to Member States.
in writing. - (SV) Discrimination and harassment have no place in a liberal society.
This report reminds us of the horrifying fact that many Member States still have a long way to go to make men and women equal in life and work.
However, the responsibility for fighting injustices on the labour market, for example, does not rest with the EU institutions but is, and should remain, a matter for responsible citizens and their political and union representatives in the Member States.
Bearing in mind that equal treatment for women and men is still a structural problem, the Lisbon European Council of March 2000 assigned the European Union the target of raising the employment rate of women to over 60% by 2010, which needs to be monitored closely in the new Member States.
In adopting this report, the European Parliament has provided Member States with a useful instrument for consolidating Member States' national legislation concerning equal treatment for men and women on the labour market.
I concur with the rapporteur's opinions with regard to the transposition of Directive 2002/73/EC by Member States and on the need for all of them to implement the instruments that this Directive provides in order to reinforce national legislation on the equal treatment of men and women in the employment market: gender equality in employment is not only a worthy principle in ethical terms but is, and will be, the foundation for the sustainable, durable, economic development of the European Union as a whole.
in writing. - Equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of the European Union.
There is still much to be done to achieve this principle and I hope that we will make this a political priority in all areas of our work in the European Parliament.
In spite of the fact that gender equality is a fundamental right, gender inequality on the labour market, in terms of salaries, employment rates and quality of employment, remains a serious structural problem.
In other countries, no reference is made to sexual harassment, or it is only included in a general definition of harassment (in Poland, sexual harassment is defined in Section 6, Article 183a of the Labour Code), which makes it much more difficult for injured parties to pursue their rights.
Grassroots initiatives, which aim to raise awareness in society, as well as those which aim to help victims of discrimination, are extremely important in the fight against discrimination.
The solution that the EU is promoting for a long-term, structural peace in the Near East, reiterated today here in Strasbourg by President Pöttering, is for two sovereign, independent states.
in writing. - I unconditionally condemn the indiscriminate and brutal killing of civilians in Gaza, as I do the callous and indefensible killing of Israeli civilians by Hamas rockets.
I voted for the European Parliament Resolution on Gaza because it explicitly supports the UN Security Council resolution calling for an immediate cease-fire.
I think that discussion of the matter, without a vote, would be a more effective way of involving the European Parliament in this issue.
in writing. - (NL) Une fois n'est pas coutume, this is a very even-handed resolution that deserves all our support because it clearly asks both parties in the conflict not to resort to violence.
Before we can look for a solution, Hamas must stop its rocket attacks on Israel.
in writing. - I voted for the joint resolution even although it was less rigorous in its condemnation of Israel's action in Gaza than I would have liked.
in writing. - (DE) I think it is right and proper that the European Parliament is speaking with one voice.
in writing. - (PT) In spite of calling for a cease-fire, which is an urgent issue, with which we are in agreement, the resolution approved by Parliament on the extremely serious situation in the Gaza Strip is highly inadequate, containing even negative aspects, particularly when compared with the resolution of the Human Rights Council of the UN (UNHRC) of 12 January.
These are obvious demands that should be made of a country that so blatantly violates the undertakings it has made, namely to respect human rights and international law.
Israel has constantly broken the cease-fire, including on 4 November last year when Israeli troops crossed into the Gaza Strip and killed six Palestinians, as well as the collective punishment of the Palestinian people by means of embargoes, shutting off the electricity, extending settlements, building walls, kidnapping leading Palestinian politicians, and so on.
The text tabled by all the groups in this assembly, which is intended to represent the interests of European peoples, does indeed contain some excellent recommendations, such as a call for the fighting to stop, but it does not make any reference to the importing of this conflict into Europe.
I have therefore given my support to this resolution which calls for an immediate and permanent cease-fire, including the ending of military action on the part of Israel in the Gaza Strip and an end to the firing of rockets by Hamas on Israel.
However, I am sorry that no firm and unreserved condemnation has been included of the attacks by the Israeli army, which have already left more than 1 000 people dead, mainly civilians.
Europe has a major role to play in the resolution of this conflict, but an agreement for lasting peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians can only be achieved, in my opinion, with the creation of a viable Palestinian State, recognising and recognised by Israel.
The common resolution on Gaza does have positive aspects, such as the request for an immediate cease-fire, recognition of the 1 000 deaths caused by the Israeli army, including women and children, as well as recognition that the embargo on Gaza by Israel represents a breach of international humanitarian law.
It does not recognise that it was the Israeli army that broke the truce of 4 November with its land incursion and various aerial attacks, but rather lays the blame on Hamas for the breakdown of the cease-fire.
Furthermore, the common resolution does not demand an end to the Israeli blockade of Gaza nor does it demand that the 27 EU Member States cancel all arms exports to Israel.
Furthermore, Romania's consistent positions on this subject feature to an influential extent in this document.
I am pleased to have the opportunity to vote in favour of a document which expresses both the point of view of the European political family I belong to and that of my country.
I welcome the adoption of the resolution on the situation in the Gaza Strip.
It is the duty of Parliament to condemn this humanitarian disaster, laying claim as it does to moral leadership on respect for human rights.
As the United States is currently in a state of paralysis on account of its change of president, the EU must further increase its sense of duty.
Everyone knows that the war was pre-planned and the causes lie in the Israeli occupation and Israel's refusal to apply the UN Resolutions on an independent Palestinian state with its capital in East Jerusalem.
Europe must stand up to its responsibilities and demand a definitive end to Israeli aggression and start making an effort to find a viable long-term solution.
The right of Israel to exist in peace and security is inalienable.
The right of the Palestinians to live in a free territory, administered by itself, in peace, democracy and respect for human rights is also inalienable.
The process is inevitable if the international community, including Arab countries, does not promote the viability of one side and the security of the other as the objective of the peace process in the Middle East.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I declare myself in favour of the motion for a resolution on the tragic situation in the Gaza Strip.
I join my colleagues in expressing my profound regret for the suffering of the civilian population in Gaza and I believe that the only possible solution, not only in this territory, but throughout the Holy Land, is dialogue, negotiation and diplomacy, and never war, which can only exacerbate hatred.
The European Union can and must play a prominent role in this process, both in achieving a cease-fire as well as in opening channels for humanitarian purposes.
For this reason, I am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution and I hope that the efforts for reconciliation result in concrete progress towards peace as soon as possible.
No military solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is possible.
Meanwhile, we think that any upgrading of political relations between the EU and Israel must be strictly conditional upon respect for international humanitarian law.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on the situation in the Gaza Strip for an immediate cease-fire in this area.
in writing. - (SV) The resolution that the European Parliament voted through today concerning the situation in Gaza contained no condemnation of the terrorist organisation Hamas, which broke the cease-fire in December and uses civilians as human shields.
Despite the fact that this was absent from the resolution, I considered it important to vote in favour of a call for a cease-fire in the region, which was why I voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - The situation in the Gaza Strip is deplorable.
The Israelis have failed to respect the international community.
I will vote in favour of this resolution because the European Parliament needs to have its voice heard so that innocent Palestinians trapped in Gaza will not be forgotten.
Relations between the EU and Israel can only be upgraded if human rights and international humanitarian law are respected, the humanitarian crisis in the Gaza Strip and the occupied Palestinian territories are brought to an end and an all-out effort is made for a comprehensive peace deal and for the complete implementation of the EC-PLO interim association agreement.
in writing. - I support the resolution on Gaza and support calls for an immediate cease-fire.
It must construct the 'EU regional political partnership for peace, security and development in the Horn of Africa' which the Committee on Development launched when it adopted its report in April 2007.
in writing. - (SV) Since it is my firm belief that the European Parliament should not involve itself in foreign policy, I have voted against the resolution in its entirety.
That is why the Eritrean Government must reconsider its current withdrawal from participating in IGAD.
This represents an explicit recognition that human rights and political freedoms are suppressed in Belarus.
These problems are particularly important to those of us who live in border regions, which are linked by both cultural and family ties.
The promotion of democracy in Belarus is a question both of values and of strategy.
I am pleased that the Belarusian Foreign Minister has confirmed that his country intends to participate in the Eastern Partnership with other Eastern European countries.
The process of democratisation in Belarus will promote respect for the rights and freedoms of this country's citizens.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues fully support the need for the democratic opposition in Belarus to be involved in the process of gradual re-engagement between the EU and Belarus.
We also wish to make clear that, with regard to paragraph 16 of this joint resolution, the death penalty issue is a matter of conscience for British Conservative MEPs.
I endorse the annual day of commemoration for the genocide in Srebrenica, precisely because the intervention of the EU and its Member States had created a false sense of security, as a result of which the residents were unable to flee in time.
The memory of what we could have witnessed should be an integral part of our heritage.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution that would establish 11 July as a day of commemoration for the victims of the Srebrenica massacre.
The tragic month of July 1995, when Serb troops led by Ratko Mladić massacred over 8 000 Bosniaks, still lives in all our hearts.
Further efforts and sacrifices are also required to ensure that those guilty of the genocide are brought to justice (the most important of whom is General Ratko Mladić) in deference to the fathers, mothers, children, brothers and sisters of the innocent victims who died in those years, and also in deference to the Europe that wants to live in freedom.
