Israel's participation in Community programmes - Israel's participation in Community programmes (debate) The next item is a joint debate on: the report by Mrs De Keyser, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of a Protocol to the Euro Mediterranean Association Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States of the one part and the State of Israel of the other part, on a Framework Agreement between the European Community and the State of Israel on the general principles governing the State of Israel's participation in Community programmes (05471/2008 - C6-0180/2008 - and Council and Commission statements concerning the State of Israel's participation in Community programmes.
As Mr Salafranca pointed out earlier, it is quite correct that, on 6 November, Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted two proposals on Israel's participation in Community programmes: one was an assent, and the other a resolution.
Essentially, Mr President, because the humanitarian situation in Gaza has become intolerable.
I would also pay tribute to all our Jewish friends, both in Israel and elsewhere, these new righteous men who, in extremely difficult conditions, also want peace and call for compliance with international law.
I would say to Mrs De Keyser that such lessons come at a price in a region such as the Middle East.
In this respect, the declaration of 16 June 2008 includes some very clear statements both on the political context surrounding the upgrading and on the messages that Europe intends to send to Israel on this occasion.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, in December 2006 the Commission proposed fully integrating the partners in the European Neighbourhood Policy into the implementation of certain policies and into a series of Community programmes.
In March 2007 it supported the Commission's proposal that all partner countries should always be enabled to participate in certain Community programmes.
Israel is the first of our partner countries in the Neighbourhood Policy which this year formally concluded a protocol on a framework agreement with the European Community on the general principles of its participation in Community programmes.
This will have a positive effect on our existing dialogue on human rights.
The further strengthening of our relations with Israel, a heartland in the European Neighbourhood Policy, is in the strategic interest of the European Union.
Today we have thrown away an instrument that would have put us into this position in return for our money.
I also believe that, under the Presidency of my own country, there will be an improvement in relations between Europe and Israel.
Yes, we want cooperation with Israel, but we also want peace in this region at last and no repression of the people.
I can therefore understand that we wanted to send a message to Israel by deferring the vote, because we do not want to create the impression that we are rewarding that country in a time when the day-to-day situation is deteriorating for more than a million Palestinians who live in Gaza.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has not been easy asking for the vote to be postponed, but I think that it has been a necessary measure which I really believe will do the European Parliament credit.
We have given it to the Palestinians and to all those Israelis who firmly believe in peace, but in peace with justice under law.
I look forward to your responses. - (IT) Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this time I do not agree because I would argue that Parliament has given a bad impression today by referring Mrs De Keyser's report back to committee - and you will all certainly agree, especially with convening the debate and then the vote at such incredible speed.
I get the impression, however, that all of this is hindering regional development and perhaps even the peace process.
If anything, it calls into question a state's right to security, a right which we should safeguard. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs who have spoken before me have given a good explanation of the purpose of the package that we have set out this morning to vote to postpone.
But I would like to remind you that there are additional aspects to these relations, especially the political aspects, which are being examined by the Council in this development in relations between the European Union and Israel.
I therefore believe that we are all basically in favour of this development in relations between Israel and the European Union, in the same way as we are in favour of the development in relations with the Palestinian Authority.
I would like to remind you not only of the tragic situation in Gaza, but also of the continuing illegal settlement in the territories.
In my view, the Council must basically make its position clearly understood, if only because it seems to me that the French Presidency has undertaken to present at the next Council meeting a document on the prospects for peace in the Middle East.
I would like to add that we should also use the time to rebuild relations between Europe and the United States on the basis of a joint initiative on resolving the situation in the Middle East.
Mr President, if the debate today had had as its subject the situation in the Gaza Strip, I might have joined Mrs De Keyser and all the other colleagues across the floor in claiming the same positions.
There are 210 illegal settlements.
Over 300 young people under 18 years of age, some as young as 12 years old, are in detention.
If I remember correctly, Hamas overthrew the elected authorities of President Abbas and destroyed the government in a violent uprising, in breach of all rights.
I am convinced that this policy will not help President Abbas either but that it will further aid the radicalisation already so successful in Gaza.
The European Parliament regrettably narrowly voted today not to give its opinion on this agreement - dear to the incoming Czech Presidency - which in my mind is disastrous and will send all the wrong signals to the Israeli public during a critical electoral period and will inevitably strengthen the hands of hardliners in Israel.
Mr De Rossa, the Chair fully recognises and indeed shares your position. (DE) Mr President, yes, there have been a number of e-mails but there has also been lobbying by the Israeli Embassy.
Do not forget that the proposed upgrading was preceded by a strengthening of our partnership with Morocco, which sent a powerful political message to our Arab neighbours on the southern shores of the Mediterranean; I would also remind you that our negotiations with Israel have not neglected the Palestinian Authority, and that the European Union and the Palestinian Authority met in summer 2008 to set up new working groups to speed up the implementation of the action plan concluded in 2005.
It is this overall approach that gives meaning to the upgrading of the EU's relations with Israel, and it is this political dialogue that will make it possible, in our view, to ensure that the principles that various of you raised are better respected and defended and that the EU has a part to play in finding a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Firstly, in a debate about our cooperation with Israel, in which human rights and the humanitarian problems of the Palestinians are rightly discussed, it should not, however, be forgotten that we have a particular responsibility towards Israel.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, I would like to respond first of all to you, Mr Verheugen.
The vote on the report by Mrs De Keyser and the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place during a subsequent part-session.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (GA) - It would be a bad sign if the EU were to improve relations with Israel at present.
In 2002 the European Parliament voted to suspend the EU-Israel Association Agreement because of Israel's serious violations of human rights.
I welcome the decision to cancel the vote on the improvement of relations between the EU and Israel.
in writing. - Approval of the proposed Neighbourhood Agreement with the State of Israel would incorporate Israel into certain Community programmes under the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP), a policy designed to promote reform and stability in the European Union's neighbourhood.
