The Minutes state, on page 14, in the Greek version at least: "Question 16 by Mr Ìarinos: Violations of Cypriot airspace by Turkish fighter-planes.
Mr Zacharakis, we will not be holding the political debate on this issue here.
Mr President, I wish to raise once again the point I raised on Monday and again yesterday with regard to Mr Helmer's comments in this House.
Mr President, I wanted to bring up an issue which should be of great concern to this Parliament, and in particular to Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Budgetary Control.
A serious abuse of European law and the Statute of the European Investment Bank is taking place in my own country.
The situation in Ireland is quite contrary to this principle.
The Irish government have, in contravention of the law, nominated a person who not only has no experience of economic or financial affairs, but is furthermore a disgraced supreme court judge who was forced to resign before he was impeached by the Irish parliament.
This is an extremely important matter for this Parliament, which is concerned because the European Union provides Guarantee Funds to the EIB.
Parliament must take notice of this, because if we allow Member States to contravene the law in this way it has serious implications for the European Union as a whole.
I would ask the President if he could instruct the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Budgetary Control to look into this issue, because it should be dealt with very quickly.
It could set a very bad precedent for the future for other Member States and for nominations to this body.
Mr President, I would like to put a question to Parliament.
These fires represent a considerable hazard, damaging the forest stand and the environment throughout the European Union, but, most importantly, the economic effect on our endeavours to boost employment in the tourism industry in all the countries of the Mediterranean area will be extremely serious.
During this period the euro system, that is the 11 national central banks and the ECB, had to prove its ability to implement the conceptual framework that had been thoroughly prepared during the previous years.
Looking back, these challenges have been met from both a policy and an operational point of view.
Therefore I have great pleasure today in presenting the Second Annual Report of the ECB.
It gives an account of the activities of the euro system during 1999 and at the beginning of this year.
In addition to this regular dialogue, other members of the Executive Board of the ECB have attended committee meetings on several occasions in order to present a report drawn up under the responsibility of the ECB and to participate in exchanges of views on various issues.
In view of the large range of topics included in the Annual Report it will clearly be impossible to address all of them at our meeting today.
Therefore I shall concentrate on some of the most pertinent issues, which have also been raised in the resolution drafted by your Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Reviewing the first year of the existence of the single currency, I should like to start by reporting that the primary objective of the ECB, that is the maintenance of price stability, has been achieved.
Indeed, with consumer prices in the euro area increasing by just 1.1% in 1999, inflation has reached one of the lowest levels in the past 50 years.
In line with its mandate, the ECB remains vigilant regarding risks to price stability, as evidenced by its monetary policy decisions in order to nip inflationary pressures in the bud before they materialise rather than to react once price stability is already in jeopardy.
The euro system will continue to pursue this forward-looking strategy in order to maintain an environment of stable prices, which is also conducive to sustained economic growth and job creation in the euro area.
I share the analysis of your motion for a resolution that governments should take advantage of the favourable economic environment in order to step up the efforts directed towards consolidating budgets and reducing public debt and go beyond the objectives laid down in the stability programmes.
At the same time, structural reforms in the labour product and capital markets should be pursued vigorously.
I should therefore like to comment on the possible emergence of a new economy in the euro area.
In my view, the most useful definition is that which characterises the new economy as a phenomenon which increases the growth rate of productivity over an extended period of time.
Of course, there is a need to monitor developments further, with the emphasis on identifying new economic trends and potential structural breaks in traditional economic relationships as early as possible.
In any case it is important to stress that for the euro area the achievement of more flexible markets is a prerequisite if the potential gains from new technologies are to be realised in the form of substantially higher productivity growth.
In this respect, the euro systems monetary policy framework is well equipped to cope with such uncertainties.
By relying on two pillars, the ECB strategy explicitly acknowledges uncertainty regarding the structure of the economy and the transmission of monetary policy within the economy.
In the context of this discussion, some observers have urged the ECB to keep interest rates low in view of the new economy.
An inappropriately lax monetary policy would not create better conditions for the emergence of a new economy.
On the contrary, by jeopardising the maintenance of price stability, such a policy could seriously endanger the current ability of the ECB.
It would thereby undermine confidence, raise risk premia in interest rates and damage the prospects for economic growth and job creation.
It is for precisely this reason that the ECB will, in line with its mandate, continue to preserve price stability in the euro area.
I should now like to turn to another issue, which has been frequently discussed within the framework of our regular dialogue, namely the issue of transparency.
We always take our decisions from a euro area-wide perspective.
The publication of ECB reports on the economic developments of individual euro area Member States, as is suggested in your motion for a resolution, has to be considered against this background.
I still envisage that publication of forecasts will commence towards the end of 2000, in line with the statement I made last September at the European Parliament's plenary session on the previous ECB annual report.
Forecast publication by the ECB should not be viewed as a panacea which will meet all the communication challenges faced by the ECB as a new institution in a testing multilingual and multinational environment.
It is the comprehensive analysis of the monetary and macroeconomic situation and the economic disturbances affecting the euro area economy which is the relevant input to forward-looking policy decisions.
I now turn to a related issue, namely the publication of the ECB's economic and econometric models.
Through this and other channels there is a professional dialogue and exchange of views between ECB staff and many outside experts, which is of mutual benefit.
For example, an econometric study of the demand for M3 in the euro area, conducted by ECB staff, was published in September 1999.
An area-wide model used at the ECB, which models the aggregate behaviour of the euro area economy, will be published in this working paper series by ECB staff, probably at the end of this year or early next year.
The Banking Supervision Committee also provides the forum for the exchange of relevant information between the euro system and the supervisory authorities.
Finally, this committee may also act as a forum for supervisory cooperation not related to the tasks of the Eurosystem.
The need for multilateral cooperation amongst banking supervisors has increased since the establishment of Economic and Monetary Union, for two reasons.
Against this background I perceive the Banking Supervision Committee as the main forum in which multilateral cooperation amongst banking supervisors can be enhanced.
Regarding the issue of cross-border retail payments, which has been raised by the European Parliament on various occasions, I recall that in September 1999 the ECB published a report entitled Improving Retail Cross-border Payment Systems - the Eurosystem's View.
The report called on the banking sector to provide substantially improved services by 2002.
Since the publication of that report the banking sector has subscribed to the Eurosystem's objectives in principle.
I fully share the European Parliament's concern that very little progress has been visible to customers.
The Eurosystem would prefer to maintain its present stance of cooperation but will if necessary step up the pressure on the banking sector.
However, it would be unrealistic to expect the service level for cross-border payments to reach that of domestic payments in all respects by 2002.
The ECB, as the guardian of the single currency, will continue to pursue its stability-oriented monetary policy in order to fulfil its mandate and to deliver the policy results that European citizens rightly expect.
Mr President, Mr Duisenberg, ladies and gentlemen, the 1999 report before us from the ECB is both the first ECB report for a full year and also the first report since the introduction of the euro.
Because of your stability-oriented policy, the countries in the euro area can boast a historically low level of price inflation.
But a young institution like the ECB has to win the confidence not only of the financial markets but also of the public.
At the same time, a low inflation rate is a policy for the economically disadvantaged in our society.
That is why it is important for the ECB to tailor its decisions to primary objectives.
The areas of economic growth and employment are primarily a matter for the Member States.
The Member States have got to take action themselves here.
Another sign in the eyes of the public that the euro is a good thing would be a marked reduction in charges for cross-border payment transactions, which you have already mentioned.
We cannot allow decisions that we have made in the past to keep tying our hands when it comes to the present and future process, over a period of five to ten years.
We must maintain this process - this scope for interpretation.
In conclusion, I would like to thank all my colleagues and the committee secretariat very sincerely for their support with this report.
Nonetheless, the Central Bank's strategy has not always been completely clear or highly legible.
In fact, there have been a lot of copycat decisions between the European Central Bank and its big sister, the Federal Reserve in the United States.
When the Federal Reserve hikes its base rate by 25 points, the European Central Bank follows suit; when the Federal Reserve adds 50 points, the Central Bank does likewise a few weeks later.
But the situation in the United States is quite different from the situation in Europe and sometimes I get the impression that the European Central Bank is giving in slightly to market expectations and appeasing the markets with increases of 25 or 50 points and I worry somewhat when I read reports by financial analysts predicting increases of over 100 points by the end of the year.
I want a stronger European economy, not in opposition to, but in cooperation with the Monetary Fund, on the understanding that each of them retains its freedom of decision and action.
Mr President, unfortunately I have run out of time and I would like to have said a great deal more, especially on enlargement.
Clearly what matters is internal price stability, and the external value of the euro is of much less significance.
As he said, much of the debate which happens within the Council is filtering out in the form of discussion within the monthly bulletin, but this is not the same as a regular report with a formal framework in which it is discussed.
It is also clearly crucial the ECB should look only at the euro zone as a whole in terms of its inflation and price stability objective.
It is essential to point out that different growth trends exist within the different national components of the euro zone economy, and that this implies different sustainable wage growth rates over time.
I very much hope that we will continue to apply the criteria of the Treaty, no more and no less.
The Group of the Greens totally disagrees with the policy of raising interest rates, which has been applied since the end of 1999.
We are as displeased by the second period of management by the Bank, starting in the last quarter of 1999, as we were satisfied with the first, not because the Bank overestimates the importance of variations in exchange rates against the dollar - it does in our view, but that is by the by - but because the debate on exchange rates obviously masks the Central Bank's aversion to growth and its serious underestimation of the potential rate of growth of the European Union.
Yes, there are difficulties with a rate of growth of 3% but these difficulties imply that there should be more, not less investment and, hence, lower not higher interest rates.
What I would like to stress today is the scandal that is the second part of paragraph 11 of the Radwan report.
It was after this law was announced that the Toyota factory - and many others - decided to open in France.
The European Parliament is the only institution in the Community which is entitled to exercise any, albeit ex-post, control over the European Central Bank and its policy.
From this point of view, the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs does not meet the expectations of the citizens of Europe, in that it fully supports the policy of the European System of Central Banks and, on several counts, is going beyond that policy by calling for even greater liberalisation.
The workers paying the price for this seriously negative neo-liberal policy have no confidence in it, nor do they share the European Central Bank's ambition or the support given to its policy by the European Parliament, the other institutions of the European Union and the governments of the Member States.
In this sense, we oppose both the policy of the Bank and the support given to it by the European Parliament.
Alas, Mr Radwan, you see all the symptoms, but you cannot bring yourself to name the genetic disease afflicting the euro and provoking the scepticism of the markets, which have devalued it by 20%, indifference on the part of the economic players, who have yet to adopt it, the distrust of the citizens: in the last survey, 41% of Europeans already thought that the euro was a bad thing for them and, admit it, there were signs of panic among the euro supervisory authorities, 18 months before the planned withdrawal of the national currencies.
Add to that the increasing hostility of the British and the persistent distrust of the Danes, which I hope to see confirmed on 28 September.
Conceived in haste by France and Germany following German reunification, followed by nine other countries, the so-called single currency was immediately put out for adoption by the political authorities to an independent bank, poor little Cosette sent to the Ténardiers in Frankfurt!
Perhaps your euro will rally, Mr Duisenberg, but it will not be thanks to you.
So, for pity's sake, between now and then, do not out of wounded pride throttle a European economy which has already paid a heavy price in the chase for the euro in terms of growth and employment throughout the 1990s and which does not want to pay a second, equally heavy price in the chase for a strong euro.
However, we cannot allow this result to distract us from the many storm clouds gathering overhead.
The first issue is public finances: improvement in the relationship between public deficit and GDP, which, in the space of a few years, has fallen to below 2% in the euro area, disguises the fact that, in many countries, in many instances, this result is due purely to favourable interest rates and to the fact that taxation has risen instead of fallen.
The long-term structural reductions in public spending are of secondary importance and, moreover, the national budgets of many countries remain at around 50%, which is too high a level to control without risk of adding to the deficit in the event of crises or shocks.
The demagogic generosity of these systems has a very high cost which someone is going to have to pay very soon, and its effects will soon make themselves felt on the stability of the euro.
There is a problem of privatisation and liberalisation in many sectors.
There are countries such as France - large countries therefore - which have put the brakes on with regard to the liberalisation and privatisation chiefly - but not exclusively - of the telecommunications sector.
Mandel, one of the forces behind the euro, when speaking of Europe a few months ago, said that the governments are making the market too rigid.
Instead of expecting Central Bank policy or taxation policy to resolve some of the problems of the European economy, European policy should resolve the issues it is able to, such as the issue of restructuring and flexibility in the economy and in the labour market, immediately.
Furthermore, I share the rapporteur' s satisfaction in noting that the ECB has stood by its commitment to publish information regularly on the financial variables in its possession, the economic forecasts and the econometric models used as the theoretical basis for the monetary policy it has implemented.
It is important that the principle of transparency is affirmed and it is a good thing that the ECB has set communication standards which could be an excellent point of reference for the activity of the central banks of the individual countries.
However, let us guard against interpreting the principle expressed in Article 105 of the Treaty too freely, for Article 108 reads: "When exercising the powers and carrying out the tasks and duties conferred upon them by this Treaty and the Statute of the ESCB, neither the ECB, nor a national central bank, nor any member of their decision-making bodies shall seek or take instructions from Community institutions or bodies, ...
or from any other body." The monetary policy is certainly a lever which is capable of determining a country' s economic performance, for better or for worse, but it is for this very reason that we must not give the ECB responsibilities which cannot fall within its remit, either under the Treaty or in the light of the basic rules of economic policy.
The poor development of the macroeconomic variables in some of the countries of the euro area has been linked, very superficially but incorrectly, to the creation of the single currency: imbalances and unfavourable trends in some countries cannot be blamed upon the euro and still less upon the Central Bank' s monetary policy, but they can be attributed to the absence of an unambiguous economic policy in Euroland and the lack of structural reforms at the level of the individual national systems.
Pages 60 and 61 of the ECB' s annual report contain a discussion of the situation in Denmark in 1999.
It is pointed out that, in 1999, the Danish krone was stable and marginally stronger than the central rate in ERM 2.
Speculation against the Danish krone is occurring primarily because Danish opinion polls suggest that there may be a 'no' vote in the forthcoming referendum on 28 September.
If there is, in fact, a 'no' vote in this referendum - and I very much disagree with my French colleague who has just spoken and who, if I understood him correctly, is hoping for just such a vote - then speculation against the krone may be expected to increase, in which case Denmark will have need of that ECB support in defence of the krone which is provided for in the ERM 2 agreement.
Firstly, what conditions must Denmark fulfil before the ECB will intervene in support of the krone?
Mr President, no one denies, Mr Duisenberg, that you and the European Central Bank are operating a very competent and successful monetary policy.
The report welcomes the improvement in the ECB' s information policy.
It is one of the European Union' s most powerful institutions and this complete surrender of policy and democracy to the ECB cannot continue.
There is a second problem that worries me.
This narrowing of monetary and financial policy down to price stability is reflected in paragraph 9 of your report, Mr Radwan, where the rather revealing wording states that developments in labour markets and social security systems should support the ECB' s stability policy, rather than the reverse, which would be more appropriate in view of the dramatic problems in these fields.
I hope that it will at last be possible to have a serious and essential debate with you about this trend and about instruments capable of influencing it, such as the Tobin Tax. (Applause) Mr President, Mr Duisenberg, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Radwan report is particularly important, because it cannot be read in isolation from the next item about the euro information campaign.
We must not allow information on the technical changeover to be overshadowed by information about the political objectives and the successes achieved so far.
By way of conclusion, I would therefore like to say that the euro, as this report demonstrates, is a project for growth and employment, for a successful single market and for enhancing Europe' s identity.
The euro is a project for price stability and lower inflation rates, for increasing competitiveness and improving public finances, so that we finally put a stop to the process of selling out our future for budget policy reasons.
Mr President, the first annual report by the European Central Bank gives us a chance to thank the executive board of the European Central Bank for its hard work and to congratulate it on its successful administration in connection with the introduction of the euro.
These people worked extremely hard to attain our common objectives and we should acknowledge that, even if we disagree with them on certain crucial points of the monetary policy which they have applied over the year in question.
But the Central Bank has no right to publicly present the fight against inflation, which is its obligation under the Treaty, when it itself is free to define inflation as it pleases.
Mr President, whatever the value of the euro, the primary objective of the European Central Bank, as you have reminded us, Mr Duisenberg, is to maintain price stability without worrying about the economic and social consequences which come in the wake of these decisions.
That is why the ECB can increase its interest rates, at the risk of slowing down investment and dampening growth.
According to experts, nearly 950 billion French francs net poured out of the euro zone in 1999 in the form of direct investments abroad, i.e. 43% more than in 1998.
In the name of the fight against inflation and strict compliance with the Stability Pact, it even goes so far as to call the governments of the Member States to order, but never has a word to say in criticism of the speculation sweeping the financial markets.
It fans the flames of privatisation in order to boost competitiveness and the return on capital.
It also advocates 'modernising' social protection and reducing unemployment costs, thus applying the same logic as the agreement in France between employers and two trades union, an agreement which punishes the unemployed and makes them feel guilty.
We must re-open the debate on the remit of the European Central Bank in order to find a new credit policy which takes account of employment criteria.
The alternative in a truly social Europe would be to substitute a growth, employment and training pact for the stability pact.
And if we are to implement this approach, it is vital that we strengthen control of the ECB by the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
Mr President, when it adopted the Radwan report, the majority of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs missed a rare and valuable opportunity to draw attention to reasons for the weakness of the euro that cannot be laid at the door of the European Central Bank.
Rigid structures, the slow pace of liberalisation in important sectors of the economy and differences between inflation rates in individual euro Member States, which are already a cause for concern, are the reason why the improvement in public finances in many Member States is not the result of a sustained reduction in public expenditure and structural reforms, but rather a consequence of low interest rates and a heavier tax burden, which represent a threat to the Stability Pact.
It would also have been a good thing for this Parliament if it had had the courage to recognise in this particular report that the present weakness in the single European currency is chiefly due to a lack of economic flexibility.
This is an unequivocal signal to voters in the euro area to give the all too numerous Red-Green governments their marching orders, if they... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, Mr President of the Central Bank, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot resist the temptation of replying to Astrid Lulling.
Mr President of the European Central Bank, as you know, the recent 50-point increase in the base rate which you introduced, following hard on the heels of the increase at the end of April, has incited widespread debate in numerous Member States in which growth has resumed; it is feared that this increase in the base rate will upset this trend, which is essential if we want to resolve the problems facing our fellow citizens.
However, we are delighted at the prospect of a revision in the reference value which allows growth in the money supply to be evaluated.
The lack of any real coordination between our economic policies is the main cause.
It is within this framework that you will manage to strengthen the mutual confidence between governments which is needed if progress is to be made in this direction.
And then, Mr President, allow me to question you on one final point.
Once again, the figures speak for themselves: as a result of the reduction in working hours, there has been an increase in growth and jobs in the French economy. (Applause) Mr President, the European Central Bank is just a cog, albeit a highly symbolic cog, in the wheel of policy of all the Member States of the Union, a policy which promotes the profits of big business, while at the same time imposing what the report euphemistically refers to as a moderate wage policy.
The Central Bank, which has set itself up as the supreme guardian of this policy, claims to be acting to prevent budgetary deficit and indebtedness in the Member States.
The elected members of Lutte Ouvrière will be voting against this report.
I wish that France and the French Members of Parliament were as active, for example, in the implementation of the action programme relating to financial services, as they are in promoting the Social Agenda.
President Chirac yesterday emphasised with eloquence the importance of finding the right balance between these two objectives, and I wish you would listen to your President.
The report we are now dealing with also shows that progress was clearly made in this direction last year.
Mr Duisenberg, the fact that there are many econometric models does not prevent their all being published and made known to Parliament also.
Mr President, the Radwan report has addressed honestly many of the issues which relate to the functioning of the Central Bank, ranging from prudential banking supervision and the cost of international money transfers on the one hand, to convergence requirements for applicant countries and the role of this Parliament in providing the framework for the accountability of the ECB on the other.
The report welcomes the fact the ECB does not interpret its responsibility for stability policy one-sidedly, but that, in addition to inflation, it also monitors deflationary tendencies.
This is also important.
We all value economic and price stability, and the new paradigm in the United States gives us hope that such stability, including a balanced budget over the economic cycle, is consistent with growth and the steady reduction in unemployment.
I believe this is due to the lack of faith in the core Euroland countries' ability to govern and deliver fundamental structural reforms under their current governments, which Otmar Issing, the bank's chief economist, has referred to as the serious structural rigidities in Europe's labour markets and pensions systems.
Lastly, as a British member, I do not think it is fair that candidate countries should be subject to any stricter application of the Maastricht convergence criteria for joining EMU than the existing members and, as an out-country member, I urge the Commission to consider the flexible European model that we British Conservatives have adopted, allowing these countries to opt out of EMU in future if they so wish after joining.
I believe that you have achieved the main objective of the European Central Bank: to maintain price stability.
I would also like to congratulate you on the change of method of adjudication, since the new variable rate system allows more direct control of the monetary aggregate as a result of greater knowledge of the market' s demand curve and, furthermore, allows for certain signals to be sent to the markets on monetary policy.
We have seen the external value of the euro plummet.
There are many reasons which have been explored today, but a big reason is that the markets do not believe in a currency without a country.
Too often in the past they have been told that changes in Europe are technical.
There has been much debate in recent months about the strength or otherwise of the currency and I would like to pose a very simple question to the detractors of EMU.
If the single currency is not working, why are so many countries seeking to join the new structure?
I welcome the decision to allow Greece full participation within the single currency.
In the Scandinavian countries support for the single currency is rising.
Fortunately we can draw on our experience of a change of currency in 1972, when we broke with sterling.
Mrs Berès has asked a very precise question, about which I would like to say the following.
In the past twenty-five years the average growth rate for real GDP in the euro area has been between 2 and 2.5% per year.
We are now entering the best period that Europe has had in a long time, in decades, I might say.
Unemployment will fall over the next two years.
Not by very much, admittedly - there is nothing monetary policy can do to accelerate the process - but unemployment is coming down very gradually and will continue to do so.
If, as well all expect and hope, Greece joins EMU on 1 January next year, only Denmark will be a member of the ERM.
The question was asked what will the ECB do if that creates problems for Denmark?
I have already alluded in my introduction to the question of transparency and the summary minutes asked for in the motion for a resolution.
A week later the entire statement is produced again in a more final form.
The editorial in the monthly bulletin gives all the information that could be found in summary minutes of the meeting.
Thank you, Mr Duisenberg.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
Implementation of EMU The next item is the report (A5-0170/2000) by Mr Karas, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission communication on communications strategy in the last phases of the completion of EMU.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 500 days from now euro banknotes and coins will come into circulation.
This will be the final stage of the first currency changeover on this scale in the history of our continent.
Both large and small companies will have to adapt and change over their accounts and computer systems to the new currency, which will involve substantial preparatory work.
SMEs need to tackle their technical changeover as quickly as possible, and in doing so also to give some thought to the strategic consequences of a market notable for price transparency and increased competition.
Secondly, there is the public at large, which includes all the target groups and more besides.
We have a very specific proposal, which is not only to change over all school books as soon as possible, but also to organise painting, drawing, essay-writing and public speaking competitions on the subject of 'Changing to the euro' , which is a defining topic for Europe' s identity.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the European public' s need for information is still very great, although monetary union is already in place and euro banknotes and coins will come into circulation before too very long.
The Committee on Budgets, in common with all Members of this House, is very much in agreement with the objectives described in the Commission communication on the communication strategy covering the final stages of the completion of EMU.
Furthermore, enhanced preparation is just as desirable and important for all our citizens and for all consumers.
We therefore wish to stress once again that the decision on the breakdown of appropriations and the guidelines for implementation, including joint actions, is taken on the basis of the opinion given by the interinstitutional working group.
The information must come in cooperation with the Member States, but what, in my opinion, is of most importance is that NGOs are kept fully aware of what is happening.
It is absolutely essential that cross-border giros and payment transactions are in accordance with the principles of the Internal Market.
We wish to remind the House that the euro information programme is also, as defined in the budget, a joint European Commission and European Parliament programme.
If you compare prices in the Eleven, that is in Euroland, with prices in other countries which have remained outside the Eleven, including the United Kingdom but also Switzerland and Norway, where this is particularly apparent, you will see that price levels in Euroland, even in the 'rich' countries, are generally speaking lower than in the other countries.
Unfortunately, this seems to apply not only to the public, but also to business.
We really must call on the Member States of the European Union to invest money, time and human resources in ensuring that the euro is a success.
But we should not forget that the resources for the information campaign are extremely slight and have to be shared out between the Member States.
No company introducing an important product would rely on such modest resources to ensure that a product was a success.
We must all do this together, at all levels of the European Union!
Firstly, I would like to say that our Group, as it did in committee, supports the Karas report.
To this end, it is very important that a campaign be implemented - and a very good campaign - so that in 2002 the euro may enjoy the degree of confidence and acceptance which we all want.
Furthermore, as has been said, there is a great delay in terms of the number of countries and companies prepared for its use and in terms of our citizens' level of knowledge.
In this respect I would like very briefly to highlight three dimensions.
I would like to know Commissioner Solbes' opinion with regard to participation at this level, which Mr von Wogau has also requested.
Secondly, this decentralisation must also take place at company and industry level and not be limited to the headquarters of managerial or union organisations.
Mr President, I welcome this opportunity to give a view from the outside, from Scotland, for the time being part of the UK, where our diet of information about the euro is dominated by a rather lukewarm and unconvincing approach on the part of the Labour government and an almost hysterically anti-euro rhetoric on the part of the Conservatives.
In contrast my party - the Scottish National Party - recently reaffirmed our position of support in principle for entry to the euro currency and we are not afraid to promote that view.
But in particular I welcome the fact that this strategy also addresses those Member States not yet taking part in monetary union, since of course we will be affected whether we join in or remain out.
I call on the UK and Scottish governments to play a full part in that campaign.
Mr President, there are three countries outside EMU.
Two of these countries, England and Denmark, have had the good sense not to take part in the euro information campaign.
This means that the euro information campaign will not be a normal information campaign as it is in other countries, but a sort of persuasion campaign and the beginning of the fight between those that are for and those that are against in the referendum.
I am glad that no money from the campaign is formally being used for propaganda in the Danish debate.
If I say this, it is because, as is well known, we are holding a referendum in Denmark on 28 September on joining the euro, and it goes without saying that it is the public debate which forms the basis for this.
One positive point is that small and medium-sized enterprises have been identified as a very important target group, as this group is one where there could be considerable problems at the changeover stage.
After all, the hallmark of sound information is that it is tailored to the specific circumstances of those involved, and people and companies have a great deal more faith in their own associations and organisations than they do in public institutions.
Although we have repeatedly stated that the euro has, since January 1999, been the official currency of 11 EU Member States, which Greece and possibly Denmark will join at the start of next year, and that the national currencies are just multiples and fractions of the euro, the fact of the matter is that the majority of Europeans do not believe that escudos, pesetas, francs and marks are not still their official currency, because that is what they have in their pockets.
As I see it, information campaigns on the euro need to focus on precisely these two aspects: first, the value of the euro, its appearance and the way we use it as a currency, and, second, its potential and effectiveness in terms of monetary stability in the European Union, the level of growth achieved - the highest in recent decades - and in terms of controlling inflation and creating employment.
It is essential to effectively coordinate the resources available so as to reach the target groups, and for us to be certain that there are no errors of the kind already identified in documents which the Commission has widely distributed in Portuguese schools.
And this is what the citizens of Europe are waiting for.
Mr President, on behalf of my Group, I should like to express our surprise at the fact that a particularly extensive and sometimes even extremely complex resolution should have ensued from a relatively simple matter.
It is extremely regrettable that this enormous political error is detected to a far lesser extent by this House than the errors of liability on the part of commercial banks in the course of foreign exchange transactions.
True, some British newspapers declare that we already know all the facts, but the recent announcement of the merger between the Frankfurt and London stock exchanges left many British newspaper editors spectacularly exposed on the simple issue of which currency would be used for the exchange denomination.
More than two-thirds of UK businesses are unaware of the practical implications of the introduction of the euro, even for those countries outside the euro zone.
But there is reason to believe that this campaign goes well beyond the provision of practical information.
But I personally fail to recognise this historic success over the last six months, and the astonishing suggestion that the euro has proved a stabilising factor in the face of international monetary crises.
Therefore, the Committee on Budgets is nevertheless lending its support for funds to be freed up so that the Danube Commission can begin its work as soon as possible.
As regards the provision of this EUR 22 million, the Commission has suggested that 7.5 million be taken from Phare, 7.5 million from ISPA and 7 million from Obnova.
So my reply is 'yes' . (Parliament approved the Commission proposal) Proposal for a Council decision concerning the conclusion of an agreement between the Community and Cyprus establishing cooperation in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises within the framework of the third multiannual programme for small and medium-sized enterprises (SME) in the European Union (1997-2000) (COM(2000) 242 - C5-0324/2000 - 2000/0099(CNS)) (Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal presented by the Council here is one which has our support, although it has one serious flaw.
According to Article 14 of this proposal, and this was also discussed in the committee responsible, the documents are to be available in all 11 official languages of the European Union, but not the second official language of the Republic of Cyprus, that is Turkish.
This has also been the case this time.
It is the same procedure as applies in connection with the ombudsman.
The framework agreement also contravenes our own rules of procedure.
Article 64 requires express equality between the Council and Parliament in the legislative procedure when the Commission transfers documents.
That was something all the group chairmen agreed about when we began negotiations with the Commission.
Madam President, my Group supports Mr Bonde' s proposal for deferment, although this agreement undeniably contains some very worthwhile improvements to Parliament' s rights regarding, for example, talks on international agreements and its participation in the intergovernmental conference.
However, we cannot accept the way in which the Council has interfered in relations between the Commission and Parliament now that the talks are over.
Madam President, I will have the opportunity later to speak on behalf of my Group.
My Group called for this framework agreement, and it is very much committed to it.
Relations between the Commission and the European Parliament will be put on a very firm and clear footing, and it is our common goal to support the building of Europe.
The Commission is the executive, we together with the Council are the legislative, and this framework agreement will create means for the European Parliament to exercise its parliamentary control function more effectively.
This framework agreement is based on the principles of parliamentarism, democracy and transparency.
However, taken as a whole, this agreement does represent progress, and I would sincerely like to thank everyone involved in it - you, Madam President, Vice-President Loyola de Palacio, the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, and also the political group leaders, who showed great commitment in their work on it.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats will be unanimously voting for this agreement.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, our favourable view of the approval of this framework agreement, on the basis of the principles debated this very week - yesterday, in fact - when we took the view that we were carrying out European construction amongst all of us and fundamentally, as far as we are concerned, with the Commission, based on the principles of democracy, transparency and responsibility.
Parliament is more powerful and must therefore act more responsibly.
In this respect, we believe that we have taken an important step.
The negotiation has been very long.
I would like to end by making a last observation to the Council, which has not taken part in this negotiation.
It would perhaps be a good thing if the Council were also in a position and willing to adopt a standard of good conduct with Parliament in the budgetary field and in the political field.
Madam President, I believe the document that is before us today is a very significant document.
But in the large majority of cases, there is no near equivalent and that is a significant element in this document.
Secondly, we had a major debate in this House last year that centred among other things on the question of commissioners accepting individual and personal responsibility for the exercise of their high office.
Article 1.4 in annex 3 regulates which persons or bodies within this House may request of the Commission access to confidential documents.
We have brought the document as far as we can with the Commission, but I would say that, if we vote for it today, you must immediately instruct our Committee on Constitutional Affairs to take up the question of delineating the rules in the House that will make it easier for rapporteurs to make requests either of their chairmen or of the other bodies named in this document.
This we regard as a genuine step forward, and the same is true of the fact that the Commission is promising to do its best to keep the European Parliament informed on the intergovernmental conference.
My Group is very concerned about the developments that are under way in the Council.
We hope and demand that the Council gives a public and open explanation about whether in future it intends to respect relations between Parliament and the Commission, or whether it intends to interfere in them in the future.
The Council particularly seems to be aiming for secrecy in the matter of security and defence policy, and it would appear that not just the European Parliament - and via it, the public - will suffer from this attempt at secrecy, which entered the arena after these talks on agreements, when there was a call to amend the text, but also the European Commission will suffer as a result.
However, we assume that this agreement will serve to strengthen the relationship between the Commission and the Parliament, a relationship based on trust.
You may be sure that if this House approves the framework agreement, Members in my Group will watch very closely to ensure that it is actually adhered to.
We assume that the agreement stipulated in point 13 will be strictly adhered to, in accordance with which the Members of this House will, as the only institution which has democratic legitimacy, be the first to be provided with information - and I mean all information - as only in that way can we exercise our mandate as the public expects of us.
I therefore hope that this point 18, which relates to the exceptional provision of point 13, will never need to be applied.
Furthermore, given that the common security and defence policy is referred to here, at a time when we are aware that Europe is involved in establishing emergency armed forces for military intervention, this really does not bode well.
One final comment: we all heard President Chirac address this House yesterday.
I believe that we will all be paying very close attention to what happens during the French Presidency and to whether the Council operates in a more transparent and democratic way in future.
President, it is appropriate to reflect for a moment on how this interinstitutional agreement comes to be before us today for debate.
It is very important that all the EU institutions operate effectively and efficiently and the 370 million citizens of the European Union must support and have confidence in the Union's internal legislative processes.
The European Council represents the interests of the fifteen governments of the Union and has very strong legislative powers.
The negotiations for this framework agreement have been tortuous.
It may not be a perfect document but it is certainly a step forward.
It is more exacting than the agreement that has existed between the two institutions over the past five years.
The two institutions will now agree to extend constructive dialogue and political cooperation, to improve the flow of information and to consult and inform Parliament on administrative reform within the Commission.
For example, I know that the Commission is required to keep Parliament informed of the enlargement negotiations to enable it to express its views in good time through appropriate parliamentary procedures.
That is right and proper, in view of the fact that the European Parliament has to approve the right of any Member State to accede to the Union as a new and full Member.
The Parliament also has the final say as to whether or not international agreements such as the WTO talks are approved.
Parliament cannot be expected to make important decisions on such matters unless the necessary and appropriate information has been forwarded to the Members for their consideration.
That is why the Commission must set in train open procedures to transmit up-to-date information on the whole range of regulations, directives and international accords being discussed and enacted by the Union.
Madam President, on behalf of the Italian Radical Members, I would like to stress that the framework agreement strikes an important balance in relations between our two institutions.
Madam President, my Group is to vote against the framework agreement.
The Commission should also be entitled to have confidential drafts on the table throughout the preparative phase.
In the legislation process, we sit, as we all know, in committees and debate draft bills.
It is a humiliating situation which is completely unacceptable.
And it is as individual MEPs and rapporteurs that we should have this legal entitlement and not by going down on our knees before the President.
In my opinion, the framework opinion before us today represents a practical, balanced approach to the relationship between our institutions.
The European Parliament is an important body.
I am therefore very concerned that these two different inquiries, which may proceed as a result of any votes taken here today, will cause confusion, difficulty and may indeed prejudice the position of the European Parliament.
We shall certainly support the Conference of Presidents' proposal, but in view of my earlier remarks we should now reconsider this position, or at least be given some assurances about the French authorities' actions on this matter.
Madam President, we have just spoken at length about transparency in relations between the Commission and Parliament.
Consequently, before an important vote such as that which are about to take, we must not be under any illusions as to what is at stake.
It was said that surveillance took place anyway, it was even added, some even said that it was important to have surveillance systems in order to track down serious criminals.
Finally, an important distinction needs to be made: Echelon is, in fact, a surveillance system which targets not specific communications but all communications and data transfers.
My second comment, Madam President, I am sorry, but we have not had a debate in this House.
There are clear amendments on our order paper today which deal with that point.
Madam President, I have no intention of opening a debate.
This amendment relates to Article 6(3) of the 1991 directive which is to be amended and to Article 1(5) of the present directive, which is to amend the old directive.
I pointed this out during the discussions in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, but for some reason this error of translation has still not been rectified.
Agreement between the European Union and Cyprus (C5-0324/2000) According to the agreement between the European Union and Cyprus, the cost of participation in the programme by Cypriot undertakings will be covered in full by the Republic of Cyprus.
In addition, Cyprus also covers the cost of its participation in other programmes.
I should also like to point out that the total cost of adapting Cyprus to Community acquis is put at between 500 and 900 million Cyprus pounds, i.e.
Obviously economic relations between Cyprus and the European Union are unfairly stacked against the Republic of Cyprus and the people of Cyprus have nothing to gain from accession, which is why the members of the Communist Party of Greece abstained rather than vote in favour. - (EL) I should like to use the vote on the agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Cyprus on small and medium-sized enterprises to raise the issue of the new provocative action by the Denktash regime in Strovilia, where the occupying forces have advanced their position on the green line in an arbitrary act of aggression just a few days before proximity talks are due to start in Geneva.
I voted for the motion partly because pensioners and the elderly are among the most frequent victims of this type of forgery - as always the prime targets - in the hope that, when we return to the issue, a decision will, at last, be taken to acknowledge that when a citizen is the victim of a crime the State is liable, albeit indirectly, in the same way as it is at football matches.
I therefore hope that a decision will soon be taken to oblige the State to pay compensation to victims of common crimes, and therefore also to provide compensation for citizens who have been the victims of fraud.
Lienemann report (A5-0172/2000) Mr President, of course I voted for the motion.
Article 3 of this measure sets aside EUR 300 million to be spent between 2000 and 2004 on the protection of birds in general and certain important species of bird in particular.
I also welcome the fact that the amendments relating to the objectives of the programme have been approved, as has the compromise proposal for a new programme.
But we shall continue to repeat until we are blue in the face that a real European environmental policy can only be applied, or even constructed, with the necessary funds.
The environment will never be taken seriously with a budgetary line of this size, compared with the budgets for agriculture or the Structural Funds which still often have an adverse impact on the environment.
When the Council and the Commission start taking environmental policy seriously, the budgetary line which they propose in the general budget will be commensurate with the challenges we have to face.
This applies both to environmental policy projects and to the human resources which the DG for the environment needs in order to implement them.
Jarzembowski report (A5-0173/2000) Mr President, the three key factors which typify the transport of people and goods in terms of competition are price, reliability and speed.
Public enterprises started to shape up as private companies, increasingly so, where growth, profit and market value were considered more important than the social consequences of their actions.
Whether or not it is judicious to separate infrastructure from the operation of the railway industry is to be decided by the national or regional governments and is not a task of the European Union.
And it is certainly not up to the European Union to implement forced privatisation of urban or regional transport companies, as is in danger of happening in the short term.
If a clear split is not made between the trains operated by the railway companies on the one hand and the management of railway infrastructure on the other, the objective of this directive will be seriously undermined.
I have therefore rejected the solution opted for in Article 6(4) of the common position.
Mr President, as we were at second reading, I was unable to register my opposition to the Swoboda and, more importantly, the Jarzembowski report.
Parliament, in its perennial quest to go one step further and faster than the Commission and the Council, has wheeled out its regulating steamroller and wants to put all the networks in one basket.
He goes far beyond what is proposed in the common position presented by the Council.
That is why I have not voted in favour of any of his proposed amendments. - (DE) The completion of the internal market in rail transport is certainly every bit as desirable as it is essential.
However, I believe that this objective can be achieved after a reasonable transitional period, in accordance with the principle of gradual liberalisation, without it necessarily requiring a statutory split between the provision of transport services by train operators on the one hand and infrastructure management on the other.
I cannot therefore support the recommendation for second reading as presented by a majority of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
In my own small country of Luxembourg, splitting up the railway company in this way would, for many good reasons, but not least safety, transport quality and railwaymen' s working conditions, be inappropriate to the point of absurdity.
It is also impossible for me to accept the deletion here at second reading of the provision under which Luxembourg, as a Member State with a relatively small rail network, does not need to apply the requirement to award the functions determining equitable and non-discriminatory access to infrastructure to an independent body until 31 August 2004.
Article 6 of the directive in fact obliges Member States to establish independent bodies performing these tasks.
I believe that the compromise negotiated in the Council of Ministers on 28 March 2000 is better and much more realistic. - (FR) Rail transport today stands at the heart of the public service deregulation and liberalisation projects being implemented by the European Union.
The approach taken in the Jarzembowski report is to bring the management of railway undertakings into line with private sector management as much as possible and to introduce the pressure of competition.
The logic behind the Jarzembowski report will inevitably lead to a deterioration in safety standards, poorer quality services, a reduction in services to customers and a loss of social rights for employees.
The UK invented railways, developed them and was the first to privatise them.
We should have acknowledged here that European railway systems are all different, and their diversity merits the derogations proposed.
We should have placed greater emphasis on the introduction of rail regulators, as the UK now has, and less on the ideology of physical separation of infrastructure and operating services.
And we need to be absolutely certain that we have licensing systems which carry obligations, and network benefits for passengers.
He entertains the possibility of authorities offering financial compensation in order to make the use of railways safe for public transport and does not rule out a role for public companies in future.
We support the Council' s common position because it represents a balance which marks a new stage in the opening-up of the rail market, pending the adoption of provisions ensuring balanced competition between and within modes of transport.
The existence of firms which perform the functions of both infrastructure management and railway undertakings at the same time is not a barrier to the opening-up of the market, in that transparent, non-discriminatory procedures are established and monitored by an independent regulator.
What is more, an integrated company is generally in a better position to develop new technologies relating to both the infrastructure management and the railway undertaking.
A railway company whose decisions are oriented towards achieving the best possible technical and economic situation is in a position to implement the necessary innovations rapidly and to assume the responsibility of the investment risks.
The railway system is a technically diversified system which, in any case, whatever the organisational solution adopted, requires substantial coordination.
There is a greater guarantee of safety when the management of the railway system is entrusted to an integrated company for the following reasons: the company controls all the elements of the system and their interaction; it receives quicker and more detailed feedback regarding events affecting the system; it gives the authorities the security of there being a single body responsible for the safety of the system.
Respect for the principles of fairness and transparency in the allocation of capacity or in pricing is essential, but it cannot just be assumed that the separation system is the best way of ensuring that these principles are respected.
In effect, an integrated company system, a railway authority, as provided for in the common position adopted in March, would be perfectly capable of guaranteeing non-discriminatory network access and guaranteeing fair line prices.
In addition to the contribution of the State supervisory organs which already exist to some extent, more effective and extensive supervision of competition in the European railway transport sector would thus be provided by the railway authority envisaged in the Council' s common position.
The common position represents a delicate balance which supports the principles of liberalisation of the industry while giving due consideration to the particularities of individual Member States.
Part of this common position includes a complex derogation in respect of Ireland, Northern Ireland and Greece as well as further considerations for Luxembourg.
In the case of Greece and of both parts of the island of Ireland there are obvious geographical obstacles to full participation in a single rail market.
The Council position is, I believe, in the best interests of both the rail industry and the consumer.
In summary, colleagues, as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism I recognise the desirability of developing a single market in rail-service provision and the potential benefits for the consumer.
The granting of a derogation to the geographically-separated rail networks of Ireland, Northern Ireland and Greece does not in any way undermine this principle.
Railway transport in France is a precious public service, a real tool for regional planning in the broad sense of the term, above all, from the rural point of view.
The model of the French railways is also a factor in social cohesion.
In fact, it is perfectly normal to maintain services to unprofitable stations by funding them from much more profitable stations.
That is why, as a French member of the EDD Group, I feel it is important to defend the notion of a public service in this procedure.
To conclude, I would remind you that, as a Member for the EDD Group, I support maintaining employment and social cohesion, especially in rural areas, in order to safeguard activities.
It is even more important to ensure that the public services provided in our villages do not disappear.
If the railways are liberalised, we can kiss rural life goodbye, which is why we are opposed to this blind liberalisation and its consequences. - (SV) The present increase in haulage in Europe is untenable in the long term.
However, the system that we have in Europe today with fifteen separate railway systems makes it impossible for railway traffic to compete on the same terms as road traffic.
Therefore, the railways in the EU need to be liberalised and the market for the transportation of goods by rail needs to be opened up.
The members of the Swedish Social Democratic Party, Pierre Schori, Anneli Hulthén, Jan Andersson, Maj-Britt Theorin, Göran Färm and Ewa Hedkvist Petersen would like to stress the following points of view in connection with the consideration of Mr Jarzembowski's and Mr Swoboda's draft recommendations for second reading.
Such a separation must be effected as quickly as possible, as it is a prerequisite for different transport firms being able to compete with each other on the same terms as apply within other forms of transport.
The aim is to create a system of fees that is neutral with regard to competition and does not discriminate against any form of transport.
Wieland report (A5-0174/2000) Mr President, I voted for the Wieland report because there needs to be an increase in professional requirements in the European Union.
But in numerous countries, and in France at least, hundreds of foreign doctors working in hospitals are underpaid because their diplomas are not recognised.
This is mainly because it is difficult to identify which department they need to address, but it is also because the staff in these departments have insufficient training to meet their demands.
Specifically, the proposal for a directive contains a number of welcome provisions clarifying existing legislation.
A new provision also allows the required two years professional experience to be avoided.
The European Parliament proposed numerous other provisions at first reading, mainly seeking to extend the information requirements of the Member States.
This obviously requires negotiation and agreement between various architects' representative bodies in Ireland on a registration process.
The agreement bears out existing practice and even limits public access to a certain extent.
A right which all MEPs still have at present would, on the basis of this decision, soon be limited to a chosen few, whilst at the same time, the list of documents which can only be supplied with the permission of third parties would be extended to include international organisations such as the WTO and the World Bank.
A government which keeps information from its citizens is unreliable but a government which does not even take its own parliamentarians seriously is not ready for democracy yet.
I fear that this framework agreement will basically perpetuate the policy of inadequate transparency that we have seen in recent years, instead of seizing a genuine opportunity and finally attempting to do justice to our remit by ensuring greater transparency and preventing the Commission from continuing to take refuge behind confidential documents.
Nevertheless, like 145 other Members, especially those who are members of the SOS Democracy intergroup, I did not vote, for two reasons.
First, Annex 3, which restricts the transmission of confidential information to the European Parliament, represents a step backwards in comparison with the current situation.
Article 276 of the Treaty states that the Commission should submit all the necessary information to Parliament in connection with the discharge procedure.
According to the framework agreement, it is only the Conference of Presidents, Parliament' s President and the chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control who can ask the Commission for information.
We consider this agreement to contravene Article 276 of the Treaty which clearly stipulates that Parliament shall have access to the information it requires.
There is no doubt that the Commission, as an executive body, is fully within its rights to investigate different points of view and prepare drafts in the form of internal working documents without the obligation to publish them.
The fact that an application to peruse confidential documents has to go through committee chairmen or the President of the European Parliament is unacceptable to me.
The 'Echelon' System (B5-0593 and 0594/2000) Mr President, the European Parliament has brought disgrace upon itself today and seriously undermined its own credibility.
And, in order to be really sure that it will be ineffectual, Parliament has drowned its mandate in vast questions such as risks from secret services in general to individual rights or the value of the protection offered by coding to the private lives of our citizens.
It has been established from and confirmed by numerous sources that this wholesale bugging of all telephone signals has had considerable economic and commercial repercussions, to the detriment of European companies such as Alcatel or Airbus, which have lost huge contracts to American multinationals privy to privileged information obtained fraudulently and illegally.
Then why accept the Echelon system, which makes us dependent and poorer as the result of lost contracts?
And we, the French members of the Front National, the Flemish members of the Vlaams Blok and the Italian members of the MSE, are alone in defending the need for a committee of inquiry into this global spy system.
We must defend the true Europe, the truly European Europe! - (DE) I am in favour of setting up a genuine committee of inquiry to investigate an infringement of fundamental rights by the Echelon interception system.
Luckily, we still have sovereign states in Europe to defend European interests, states with sovereign justice which can unilaterally open an investigation into the activities of this network, a leftover from the Cold War which has now been turned into an industrial spy tool at the expense of certain companies and certain Member States in the European Union.
I hope that other Member States will follow France's example.
The 1991 directive confined itself to examining money laundering practices with regard to drugs money.
Hopefully, the proposals submitted by the rapporteur will open up the possibility of adopting a forceful approach in the fight against organised crime, such as trafficking in people and smuggling, but also fraud and corruption in the art trade.
Are the profits amassed by western companies by making children under ten work in poor countries for a pittance clean money?
This directive was in serious need of revision in order to adapt it to the new international economic and financial climate.
France, which is a key figure in the fight against this scourge, has clearly indicated that it intends to make this issue a priority item on the European Union's working agenda.
Just a few figures suffice to substantiate this position.
Money laundering accounts for between 2% and 5% of the world's GDP each year.
Discussions have been reopened at international level with a view to proposing effective new measures to fight this scourge.
Money laundering as defined in the directive should no longer apply solely to the proceeds from drug trafficking, it should also apply to activities linked with organised crime, such as fraud, corruption and any other illegal activity which affects the financial interests of the European Communities.
I have therefore voted in favour of this directive, which forms part of the general action plan to fight organised crime.
The great advantage of this directive was that its adoption led to all the Member States declaring money laundering an offence subject to criminal prosecution.
We all agree on the need - and Parliament has called on several occasions - for a review of the 1991 directive, which already goes much further than the 40 recommendations made by the FATF in 1996 and which has been applied successfully by the Member States.
That is why the criminal activities associated with the concept of money laundering need to be very clearly defined, in order to prevent the requirements of the directive from being extended to fraudulent activities in general in relation to money circulating legitimately in the financial system.
Those who feel the urge to denounce the black sheep in the fight against money laundering and put pressure on tax havens should go right ahead; but they should at least exert pressure on those who really baulk at helping in the fight against money laundering and, more importantly, they should refrain from automatically classifying countries which respect banking secrecy as 'turntables for dirty money' .
The proof is that the Russian mafia tried to invest its dirty money in several European financial centres before deciding on New York, which does not recognise banking secrecy.
It is important to emphasise that lawyers must be considered equal to advocates in those countries that do not have the compulsory employment of counsel.
Lehne report (A5-0179/2000) Mr President, I also abstained from the vote on this document on the list of States into which it is permitted to enter with or without a visa, for this is certainly a barrier to the free movement in the European Union of citizens resident in other States.
The Council of Ministers and the Commission should make representations to the authorities in the USA, which insist on visas for Greek nationals.
No visa is needed for money to enter, irrespective of its origin, but nationals from numerous countries require a visa, even if they are staying for less than three months.
We abstained rather than voting against this report, despite disapproving of the spirit of the report as a whole, solely because, compared with the current situation, it does slightly extend the list of countries with no visa obligation.
The list of countries whose citizens require a visa for entry into the EU contains more than 130 countries.
Europe needs to change its attitude to immigration.
Haug report (A5-0184/2000) Mr President, firstly I wish to express my satisfaction with the fact that the entire budget has been tightened up and the increase in appropriations amounts to 1.07% of total GNP for the Member States, while the corresponding figure in the budget for 2000 was 1.11%.
First, we feel that it fails to make a distinction between the debate on the 2001 budget and the debate on the revision of the financial perspectives, which we refuse to revise.
No French delegation from the European Parliament could possibly question the compromise which resulted from the difficult negotiations in March 1999.
As far as the figures announced by Romano Prodi last November are concerned, the Commission may take them back today, it knows full well that these sums are not, alas, based on an accurate analysis of the region's needs and, in its own words, it is a 'political' sum which, by the way, has never been approved either by Parliament or, more importantly, by the Council.
The fact that we have seen a chronic surplus of over EUR 3 billion at the end of the year demonstrates that the sum of appropriations voted for does not correspond to real needs, whilst it is possible to make substantial savings as the result of the patent under-implementation of certain programmes.
Although the ceiling is reached if you add market expenditure (1A), rural development (1B) and pre-accession agricultural expenditure, to accept differentiated appropriations for rural development is to run the risk of having the Commission propose substantial commitment appropriations and far fewer payment appropriations, to the detriment of our farmers yet again, and this we cannot accept. - We have voted against point 9 in the Haug report, concerning the transfer of funds from the budget for Agricultural Policy to the reconstruction programme for the Western Balkans.
In the same way, we reject the cut of EUR 300 million for agriculture.
First of all, I wanted to vote against Amendment No 11.
It was purely a mistake that I voted in favour of that amendment, since any amendments to the Commission proposal were very bad and endanger the whole procedure of getting the safe harbour agreement enforced.
We have negotiated with our US counterparts for over two years.
I voted against the committee proposal along with other members of my Group.
However, we all know that at present data is already being circulated in practice, but in an unregulated way.
So while the safe harbour principle may not be an ideal solution to this problem, it will at least impose a certain number of rules and will be a way of preventing abuse.
That said, I still subscribe to the report because, as matters stand, there are no provisions whatsoever for guaranteeing EU data protection standards in the exchange of data with other continents.
Personal data on EU citizens is already circulating in third countries, without any fundamental control; in fact we barely even know the extent of the arbitrary acts already committed.
Knowing as we do from the Echelon interception system that every form of democratic control is being flagrantly violated from without or from a distance, knowing that American multinationals are engaged in wholesale monitoring and spying at the expense of European undertakings and the economic, social, political and cultural activities of the Member States and the private life of the Union citizens as a whole, it is slightly hypocritical of us to approach this huge issue in stockinged feet with our prayer-book in hand.
It is not yet too late, but we must all realise that 2001 will be crucial in our efforts to involve the entire European population in this giant operation.
By means of the amendments which I have tabled and which have also been included in the report, I wanted to underline a number of aspects of this campaign.
In the first instance - and I will not labour the point as it was sufficiently highlighted this morning - the campaign must devote special attention to making young people aware and involve education in the information campaign.
Secondly, an information campaign must obviously be tailored to specific target groups, such as the weaker members of society.
Commissioner Solbes, I must express my approval of this report for I feel that the introduction of the euro is one of the most important, key results of the formation of the European Union out of our 15 States.
I believe I can make a small contribution to this effort: I will have posters put up in the areas in Italy in which I was a candidate for the elections, calling upon the Italian Government to raise the minimum pension to EUR 500.
It is a shame that the Government will not accept this proposal, but, at least it will serve to teach the Italian pensioner citizens the value of the euro.
Mr President, as I and many colleagues have argued for some time, the monetary union project is profoundly dangerous.
The proposal before us talks of information on the euro, but we already have all the information we need.
This is not about information, this is about propaganda.
Now, if the 12 euro countries wish to undertake a propaganda campaign, that is no business of mine.
But in three countries, Denmark, Sweden and Great Britain, the euro decision is not yet made.
I therefore have two demands to make of the Commission.
Better still, cancel the whole project and put all the funds into a special account to help defray the enormous costs that will be incurred when the euro is eventually dismantled.
Firstly, the communication is part of a very complex operation, that is, the introduction of the euro, in the form of coins and notes, on 1 January 2002.
Secondly, in the application of this process of introducing the coins and notes, the principle of subsidiarity plays a fundamental role.
This means that the Member States, through their governments and central banks, are fundamental to the whole process and also to the operation of providing information.
Our role as Commission consists, in some cases, of persuading, in others, of acting and, in the majority of cases, of communicating to the Member States ideas which they can or cannot apply, and, in some other cases, of proposing specific actions.
The main concern at the moment is to determine the level of preparation of Member States, companies and citizens.
With regard to the Member States, I can tell you that next week I will present the Commission with a report on the practical application of the euro.
Companies are the special objective of the information campaign at the moment.
As for the rest, there is a certain contradiction between this position, which in theory is so favourable to the companies, and the lack of use of the euro in normal operations at the moment.
This is the reason why we believe that we must pay special attention to companies during this period, as well as to citizens.
The Commission intends to implement certain specific actions, apart from the July communication, regular reports to ECOFIN, a proposal on counterfeiting, which will be presented before the end of the year, and also a series of measures necessary for coordination.
I would like to make some comments relating to the various points mentioned in the debate.
On the whole, the proposals in the communication coincide with the proposals which have been made here.
Nevertheless, there are certain points which deserve additional comment.
Firstly, what action must we take in the 'pre-in' countries or in third countries?
Two of them, for the moment, Denmark and the United Kingdom, have not shown any interest in implementing these information campaigns.
Your recommendations include many of the actions which, in our opinion, must be asked of the Member States and, to this end, we will send a communication to the different countries so that they may take account of them.
I would like to highlight certain very interesting aspects which have been mentioned such as paying special attention to training, schools, women, specific sectors, such as tourism, or the tremendously interesting initiative of the distribution of price tables, or the initial or additional obligations of public administrations.
The Commission is absolutely prepared to work with Parliament, with the European Central Bank and with the Member States in order to implement a programme which is more efficient, bearing in mind however that, in accordance with the current model, approximately two thirds of the total expenditure of the programme will be met by the Member States, according to their specific programmes.
With regard to the possibility of providing more resources or extending the information process, as proposed in the Karas report, the Commission is in favour of both options.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
A decision in favour of a limited ban on these grounds would not primarily be based on the precautionary principle, but on the routine procedure for dealing with toxic chemical substances.
To ban all of the 350 or so currently known phthalates is to proceed on the assumption that all phthalates are associated with more or less the same risks.
Once these phthalates are no longer used in toys, further risk assessments and the proposed review of this directive in two years' time ought to be sufficient.
As the rapporteur, I share the concerns of the Members of Parliament in my committee.
We must ensure that they are not exposed to unnecessary and unacceptable health risks and acknowledge the public concern on this issue.
As politicians we need clear advice from scientific committees if we are to make rational judgements, take the necessary risk management measures and produce good legislation.
I believe that this legislation shows us that we need action on a number of areas: (a) we urgently need to continue work on migration testing and research into chronic toxicity and the behaviour of children; (b) we need to review and update this legislation periodically and as gaps in knowledge are filled, where necessary add new substances to the ban in the Commission's legislation.
When, in 1998, reports emerged about the possible harmful effects on children' s health, the European Commission proposed - or tried to propose at any rate - a ban on the application of certain phthalates.
This is not only because there are smaller children who play with toys produced for older children, but also because there are also children in this age group who still suck things.
The amendments before us, which call for a review after two years, for the evaluation of new test methods and for scientific studies on the dangers of PVC products, are helpful in maximising health protection for us all in the long term, not just for small children.
To sum up then, it is for us to decide whether to opt for the precautionary principle and a high degree of protection, or whether we intend to hide behind scientific reports, which can, however, never relieve us of the responsibility of taking the necessary political decisions.
The facts are before us: plasticisers in children' s toys represent a massive risk for children' s health and can even be carcinogenic.
I therefore totally fail to comprehend the whole lobbying campaign being mounted by the chemical industry.
It is obvious that children who are only a few years old cannot assimilate a warning text.
The Commission's proposal is also completely insufficient for this.
Mr President, this debate again confirms Parliament's commitment to public health and indeed to environmental issues as well, and I welcome the opportunity to make a brief intervention.
It is well known that PVC may present a risk when used in toys for young children.
The proposal to amend the original directive on this matter will ban the marketing of toys and childcare articles containing PVC which are designed to be placed in the mouths of children under the age of three.
Every time the European Parliament has debated this issue there have been increasing doubts as to the safety of these toys which derive from PVC.
We know that when there is doubt about a particular measure, the European Parliament must apply the precautionary principle.
This principle in essence means that safety and health must be put before any conflicting scientific evidence, and I fully support the previous speakers who again referred to the importance of applying the precautionary principle.
Although after 40 years of use, no cases of damage to health are known, the seed of suspicion has nonetheless been sown that softeners are harmful.
Mr President, Mr Arvidsson, I fully appreciate the work which you have done on this report.
I would like to concentrate here on the application of the precautionary principle and on the difficulties in this case of dealing with an issue on which scientific considerations are confused and mixed up with emotional considerations, as well as a long history of disagreements between the industry of PVC and its derivatives and the environmental lobby, which, of course, is also deeply involved with this issue of phthalates.
We are talking about risks to children' s health.
However, we must not forget that we are also talking, with reasonable certainty, about the harmful effects of six phthalates, and also, with a degree of uncertainty, of the other substances belonging to this group.
In this respect, there is one good example: four years ago, given the opinion that silicon implants may be carcinogenic, several countries adopted an alternative substance for their manufacture based on soya oil.
A few days ago the United Kingdom banned these implants and is gratuitously withdrawing existing stocks, having discovered that they are carcinogenic.
The social and health cost of a hasty decision may be medically and economically irreparable.
The scientific evidence demanded in Amendments Nos 11, 13 and 24 seem to me to be absolutely necessary in any event, but especially in the case of this type of issue where lives are at stake and where we are likely to punish or benefit certain production sectors.
He is in the unusual position of producing a report on Commission action which has already been taken and it is the way it has been taken that we are to some extent talking about here.
Secondly, on the wider issue of PVCs in general, how soon will we get the kind of migration testing from which phthalates' safety can be assessed and the review which is called for in one of the amendments?
On the issue of labelling, I am sorry to see that there are amendments against this.
Allowing the sale of objects containing dangerous substances which children will put in their mouths goes completely against the precautionary approach.
In banning some of the objects the Commission recognises that these substances are dangerous.
Mr President, it is high time that a total ban were introduced on phthalates in all toys for children under three years of age, as is already the case in Denmark.
It is quite unacceptable that we can get into a situation in which we are going to reduce the level of safety for our children.
If the precautionary principle is not to be employed in respect of one of the most vulnerable consumer groups - our children - it is very difficult to imagine when, in fact, it is to be employed.
I should like to know why the Commission only wants the six phthalates which have been investigated to be banned, instead of them all.
I do not know if Mr Chirac was familiar with the detail of this report, but in any case he gave us a very clear pointer on how to vote tomorrow.
If we are to take our work at all seriously, then we should invoke the precautionary principle and ban the use of all phthalates as plasticisers.
And I do not mean that in a bilateral sense, but in the framework of the Community of Fifteen.
How could we allow these six phthalates to be used as plasticisers in PVC without having scientific proof at that time that they were harmless?
In our private lives, in our own homes, we take all the safety precautions we can in order to take care of our own children.
Several speakers here have said that we know that these substances can be hazardous to health.
The Commission's proposal is neither sensible nor sufficient.
I can only imagine a situation at a play school or a nursery school where the nursery teacher has to try to keep a check on which children are under and which are over three years of age as well as which children are allowed to put what in their mouths in accordance with all the experiments the Commission is trying to include.
The question on PVC softeners in young children's chewing toys is: Who says there is definitely a risk?
The answer is Mr Suresh Rastogi, a Danish researcher who used the phthalates he happened to have in his laboratory.
Of the six named phthalates to be banned as a result, two are used for flooring and cosmetics but not for children's toys, one is not used at all, one is not made at all, one is not used because of fears it might be carcinogenic (though on 8 February it was totally cleared by the WHO) and that leaves one, DINP that is used to soften PVC in chewing rings and so on.
The CSTEE met and decided on 25 November.
On 22 November, three days earlier, the Commission had imposed a temporary ban, and we have to ask the Commission why.
If that cannot be shown clearly, then the legality of the temporary ban can and should be questioned in this case.
Phthalates are, of course, a group of chemicals there is every possible reason for being on guard against, not only in connection with toys but also more generally.
I am therefore in favour of banning all phthalates in toys designed for the smallest children.
There are some who have argued that banning the use of phthalates in toys would have an adverse effect upon the plastics industry and upon employment in that industry.
The precautionary principle is very sensibly described in a recent Commission paper.
For example, a thousand people a year - no doubt some of them small children - die in England and Wales while falling downstairs.
I do hope that does not mean that we are going to see a European Union regulation restricting us all to living in bungalows.
This proposal suggests that, on emotive subjects, the Commission is prepared to act on the basis of that emotion, without the kind of sensible assessment of risk that we need here, as we do for example on risks in foodstuffs.
There has to be, even with the precautionary principle, a substantial link between the assessment of risk and action by the European Union.
Yes, eight Member States have banned phthalates, but when the Commissioner replies, can he tell us whether those eight Member States have supplied the Commission with the scientific evidence that they based their ban on?
That might have enabled the Commission to bring forward a proposal we could all agree with.
If these are dangerous, then they should all be banned and warnings would then be unnecessary.
The only problem with this is that the action is then quite disproportionate to the risk, and sets a thoroughly bad precedent for future European Union action in relation to the chemicals we use.
Parliament has even shown a desire to ban all of the nearly 350 phthalates instead of the six proposed by the Commission.
However, there is some kind of evidence of the possibility of danger in the case of only two phthalates.
It is excellent that the EU is active in this matter, as seven Member States have already introduced national regulations.
The precautionary principle is a very important tool in environmental legislation.
Neither is it sufficiently justifiable to resort to the precautionary principle if, for example, some Member States have introduced national legislation in this area.
It is at least as important today to make sure we preserve the precautionary principle for future needs as it is to take a decision on the banning of phthalates.
Mr President, this Commission proposal aims for a long-term ban on the use of phthalates in toys as an emergency measure.
Furthermore, the Commission proposal is the result of two opinions issued by the Scientific Committee on Toxicity, Ecotoxicity and the Environment.
It appears that the Commission has interpreted these opinions according to criteria which are no doubt very well intentioned, but which can at best be described as hasty, in light of the audience which took place in the Environment Committee with the scientists responsible for the opinions.
In fact, DEHP, the phthalate so far considered the most dangerous to human health, has been declared by the international cancer research association not to be classifiable as a carcinogen in humans.
Furthermore, we should bear in mind that, in order to establish the toxicity of any product, the dose and the exposure time of that product must be defined.
Furthermore, there has been much less research on the substitutes for phthalates than on the phthalates themselves.
If this ban is adopted - and we can support it, above all if there is a supposed risk to children - we will also support Amendments Nos 11, 13 and 24 because the Commission should amend this directive in the event that the Scientific Committee approves the use of methods of measurements for practical purposes.
More research is needed so that the long-term effects on health of the different phthalates can be accounted for thoroughly.
If a good deal of phthalates were banned with no clear justification, the toy industry would seek refuge in other PVC plastic softeners, about whose long-term effects there is even less knowledge than phthalates.
What the toy is used for cannot in itself be a determining factor in deciding which phthalates can be used and which cannot.
It is best if we simply do not buy these products.
Mr President, this report requesting banning the use of phthalates in some soft PVC children's toys is flawed in many ways and rests on a dubious legal basis, given that the Chairman of the Scientific Committee for Toxicity, Eco-toxicity and the Environment, Professor Bridges, when he appeared before this Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on 23 May, stated: "It is hard to see how it" - the ban - "would come under a scientific interpretation of serious and immediate risk" , which is the required criterion for the ban imposed in December.
The Commission seems to have ignored its own scientific committee on the basis that some Member States are imposing their own ban.
It is particularly galling that, of the six named phthalates to be banned, five are not even used for children's toys and only two are suspected on the basis of unreplicated tests on rats.
This whole business contrasts markedly with my request for restrictions to be placed on the use of mobile phones by young children, in a formal question to the Commission under the same precautionary principle.
A recent UK government report has recommended restrictions to child use of mobiles as a developing brain is more sensitive to electromagnetic radiation.
Therefore I call again on the Commission to use the precautionary principle consistently or admit that the whole thing is a politically motivated exercise with powerful commercial interests at play, undermining the precautionary principle and risking turning it into a farce.
The Commission's temporary bans have no legal basis.
The Commission may introduce an emergency ban where there is a clear and immediate danger, but no such danger exists with phthalates.
Compare and contrast our position on phthalates with our position on tobacco.
Tobacco, we are told, kills half a million people each year in the European Union but do we ban it?
Honesty and transparency have been sacrificed to expedience.
Migration tests for phthalates are currently under development and will probably be available within months.
To be meaningful the precautionary principle should be invoked only when there is a clear and demonstrable risk.
The Commission has also made extensive efforts to find a solution to the phthalates' question.
Following discussions about the risks of PVC toys containing phthalates and the opinions of the Scientific Committee on Toxicology, Ecotoxicology and Environment, the Commission took two decisions simultaneously last autumn.
Any interventions here actually concern the first decision, not necessarily this proposal for a directive.
The Commission's proposed directive consists of two elements.
The first element is a ban on the use of six phthalates in toys intended to be put in the mouth of small children.
The proposal provides not only for the protection of children's health, it also addresses an internal market issue.
The proposal is based on the various opinions of the Scientific Committee, and it is a considered application of the precautionary principle and consequently a proportionate measure.
It introduces a ban for the products which potentially pose the highest risks, that is for the toys intended to put be in the mouth, and a less stringent measure - labelling - for the products not intended for mouthing but where a risk cannot be excluded.
The Commission is not able to accept those amendments of Parliament which would widen the scope of the proposed ban to cover plasticisers other than the six named phthalates, or to cover other toys than those intended to be put in the mouth.
Nor is the Commission able to accept the amendments which would extend the scope to cover toys destined for older children.
We think that these various proposals cannot be justified on the basis of the risks either defined in the opinions of the Scientific Committee or by the application of the precautionary principle.
The Commission can accept in principle the amendments which would prohibit the use of perfumes in toys for children under three years containing the six phthalates.
It can also accept amendments which would bring forward the review of the directive and widen the scope of that review.
To summarise our point of view, the Commission can accept, at least in principle, Amendment Nos 2, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 18, 24 and the Commission rejects Amendment Nos 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, revised 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 25.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
It is already a highly technical and unwieldy system.
The product label will give the consumer rudimentary but crucial and useful information on the meat being purchased.
We now have a situation which I shall explain in simplified terms.
After the first reading in Parliament, the Council approved a common position.
This common position incorporates most of the amendments made by the European Parliament.
The monitoring system has been strengthened.
Minced meat is, in any case, already connected to the animal from which it derives with the arrangements which we have in the regulation and the other matters are technical and production matters and we did well not to change the wording of the regulation.
The Committee on the Environment voted by an adequate majority to insist that the text be amended.
If Mr Papayannakis wants to express a personal opinion, he should have the freedom to do so.
In the last two lines I expressed my personal opinion, with a great deal of chagrin, so as not to have to take the floor again as a speaker.
For the rest, I should like to assure our chairman that I have a great deal of respect for procedure, perhaps more than many other fellow members, both on this and other matters.
Mr President, this legislation on the labelling of beef has two distinct aspects.
In this instance labelling can enable the public to be alerted without inducing panic, and facilitate the tracing back of contaminated beef to the shop, slaughterhouse or farm where the problem started.
Secondly, labelling will identify the country or countries of origin of beef.
The BSE crisis shone a spotlight on the possible health risks associated with beef.
Some countries, like France, have a whole-herd slaughter policy which may reassure consumers, despite its lack of scientific basis and a risk of underreporting.
The United Kingdom, on the other hand, which has a higher level of BSE incidence at the moment, removes all animals over 30 months from the food chain, as well as adopting a whole raft of other measures.
In fact those in France who have studied the subject in depth may well decide to buy British as the safest and tastiest option.
A bony Holstein steer would be in the same category as a champion Charolais but that prime animal's twin sister would be in a different category solely because of its sex.
If France wants to continue with its scheme alone, then I would not want to stand in its way.
We are working on a very tight timescale on this legislation, which is due to come into effect on 1 September.
I do not subscribe to the argument that Parliament should abdicate its constitutional right to improve this proposal because others have failed to initiate the legislative process in time.
Mr President, this proposal has a long history.
The Committee has always kept a clear priority and has insisted upon it both to the Council and to the Commission: namely to have the sharpest, best-defined route of traceability on safety grounds that we can get for mince as well as other forms of beef.
It was for this reason that it threw out at first reading the superfluous requirements about maturation times, much as chefs might have wanted them, and category of animal, which did nothing for traceability, added cost, and increased the disaffection of many Member States and of those who will have to implement this proposal.
The Commission knows why.
I urge the House to reaffirm its position at first reading and to exclude a form of compulsory category labelling which is entirely optional for Member States, - a form of labelling we should point out which we do not have in detail.
We want the best and most economic route to achieve it and Amendments Nos 3 and 5 do that.
There is only one way to regain the consumers' trust and that is by guaranteeing the quality of the products.
After all, in the event of a crisis or scandal, traceability allows you to identify the problem straight away.
In my view, confidence in a product can be instilled by providing the consumer with reliable, but above all comprehensible information on the quality of the product they intend to buy.
The agreement reached by the EU Agriculture Ministers on a Europe-wide beef labelling system was not such a major achievement.
The work in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was in fact much more demanding than the result before us.
The content of all the measures approved is to be modified so that proof of meat' s origin is valid as a guarantee in order to apply environmental control procedures and if necessary impose sanctions.
The Community labelling system quite rightly aims to enhance transparency of production and marketing conditions for beef, and in particular to improve certainty as to its origin.
The last 16 years, since the first outbreak of mad cow disease, have demonstrated the importance of production for consumer confidence.
We also need to move quickly and, in the interest of producers and consumers alike, ensure that there are not any legal gaps.
We need to take account of all operators of every size, especially small and medium-sized operators, of whom there is an abundance in this sector, scattered throughout our countries, creating jobs and often using animals or cuts from different origins.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again, having done so on 16 December 1999, we are addressing the problem of identifying cattle and the problem of labelling.
When five German Länder wanted to protect their consumers, you instituted infringement proceedings against them.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, some of the amendments tabled water down the substance and the objective of the Council' s proposal for a regulation on beef labelling.
The implementing provisions for this regulation are being enacted under the committee procedure.
That means that tomorrow we will have to vote on a legal text whose precise content is unknown.
Even the Commission cannot tell us exactly what form these implementing provisions will take.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that we have been talking about beef labelling since 1997.
But we tried this here in Parliament ten years ago, and that is why I want to clearly remind some of you again that labelling has nothing to do with the safety of a product.
The other issue is consumer information and the consumer' s right to choose.
And when he says that we in this House have brought forward the date it is to come into force.
If the Council, in its infinite wisdom, which is often a mystery to me, believes that it has to amend the common position so that it is not the same as the text debated at first reading and the text Parliament approved with the Commission' s agreement, and if the Council therefore makes a decision at the initiative of one Member State and with the somewhat reluctant agreement of other Member States, than that really is something new for us!
So my attitude towards the Commission, which has otherwise become positively affectionate in recent years, is rather more critical in this respect.
Mr President, Commissioner, in speaking previously to this House I have pointed out that there is a tension in the proposed regulation between ensuring traceability for public health purposes and providing useful consumer information.
I very much hope that Parliament will follow the Environment Committee's lead in removing category from the compulsory scheme and that the Commission and Council too will agree not to impose this additional unnecessary burden on producers and consumers alike.
In previous debates here I have supported the principle of having a clear set of rules for appropriate labelling information on beef and beef products.
Of course, we must have clear information permitting full traceability from farm to plate.
There is no doubt or controversy about that, but controversy has surrounded the proposal that category of animal be included.
In judging the value of label information, I believe that its relevance to food safety must be foremost in our minds.
In a recent exchange of views within our political Group here in Strasbourg, Commissioner Byrne and his cabinet officials stated quite clearly that there was no food safety benefit arising from the categorisation proposal.
In relation to country or Member State of origin, could I ask Commissioner Fischler to clarify whether, apart from the compulsory information that we are discussing here, information regarding the area of origin, such as Scotland or the Orkney Islands for example, can be displayed prominently on a voluntary basis?
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the many negative effects of mad cow disease, one positive effect is the fact that it has induced the European Union and the Member States to adopt more vigilant, detailed legislation to ensure food safety and protect honest producers in the strategically important beef sector.
Although the protection of consumer health is by far the most important criterion, it cannot be our sole objective in establishing an efficient system for the identification and registration of bovine animals during the production and fattening stage and a labelling system based on objective criteria during the marketing stage.
It is important to understand that all initiatives which protect honest European Community producers - and they are without a doubt the great majority of producers - need to be promoted.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, beef labelling was actually conceived as a quick way of regaining the public' s confidence in beef after a string of crises and scandals.
There have been two deadlines, first December 1999 and now the present deadline of 31 August 2000.
As the proposal before us does not guarantee that, it is not just our right, it is our duty as Members of the European Parliament to adopt amendments.
When I then hear that in Italy, for example, the technical requirements for this system are not even in place yet, and that the same applies in other countries, then I wonder why there is all this rush if the system has not been implemented anyway.
I believe that you can achieve implementation of this regulation by 1 September if you accept our amendments.
Commissioner, please accept the amendments and we will then have something workable in place by 1 September.
Mr President, many aspects of the common position we have here reflect Parliament' s position at first reading, and this demonstrates the Council' s willingness to work with Parliament in order to achieve a positive and rapid outcome in this area, which is so important for European consumers.
The Council will now have to remove the provisions relating to category of animal at its meeting in mid-July if it does not want to risk the regulation not coming into force on 1 September this year.
This is not in the interests of consumers, and I therefore call on the House to reject Amendments Nos 4 and 6.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Council has adopted the European Parliament' s amendments on the labelling of beef products.
The result is a victory for consumers, and not just them, but the whole beef sector chain: the producers, the processing industry and the organisations representing the beef trade.
Mr President, the introduction of the EU beef labelling is a further step on the road to traceability and in the present climate a prerequisite for consumer protection and public health.
I come from a country which exports over 90% of its entire beef production and quality and consumer satisfaction have always been a priority.
The BSE crisis, and later on the dioxin crisis, focused our attention on the safety of our food.
The Commission proposal within the context of labelling beef follows on from temporary legislation dating back to 1997.
The label should contain information on the animal' s region of origin, where it is born, fattened up and slaughtered.
In the context of this debate, I feel that I must stress once again the extremely sensitive nature of this proposal, and call upon all the Community institutions to act responsibly in order to make it operative as soon as possible and avoid legal gaps.
Mr President, Commissioner, guaranteeing public health is the objective of one of today' s most important areas of legislation.
I am certain that the Council and Parliament can reach a good compromise on minced meat, in so far as Parliament adopts Amendments 4 and 6 which guarantee consumers information about where the minced meat comes from and when it was produced.
The Council' s common position, together with Parliament' s six amendments, constitute legislation of benefit to agriculture and consumers in the EU.
Beef labelling is an important stage in the process of rebuilding consumer confidence.
Yet the compulsory labelling system is supposed to take force in all Member States as from 1 September 2000, thus finally replacing the voluntary system.
The beef chain from producer to consumer can be very long, and the supply chains in Member States vary widely.
The committee took an important decision in rejecting the category of animal labelling proposal.
In cases where the animal was bred and reared in another country, the information might be totally misleading for the consumer, and in countries where stage two is now in force the situation as it is could only deteriorate.
For example, Finland' s national beef labelling system also now includes information on where the animal was bred and reared.
The basis of this discussion is consumer protection, especially with regard to the BSE crisis we lived through in Europe.
You can of course always revisit everything, but I think that we now need labelling of beef and beef products as a matter of urgency, by which I mean as from September this year and not as from January next year.
The Commission has not yet clearly presented its proposals on category here, but I think it will have to adopt a simple and clear approach.
Descriptions such as 'veal' or 'beef' are sufficient, and anyone who wants more information should also be able to obtain it.
Mr President, I fully subscribe to and take as read what has been said so far in relation to the identification and traceability of beef and all beef products.
Yesterday the Committee on the Environment voted by 37 votes to 13 for the five amendments before us today - a clear, decisive vote right across this House from colleagues in all different groups.
I would say to the Commissioner, please accept our amendments in relation to this area.
There is no need to confuse and mislead the consumers of Europe on a compulsory basis, because the voluntary labelling system which will be driven by competition, pride in product and consumer demand will add anything that a compulsory category label might otherwise require.
If we are now going to insist on country of origin for mince, why cannot we have country of origin for the larger pieces of beef from 1 September, or whenever?
Mr President, Commissioner, this proposed regulation and derogation of Regulation (EC) No 820/97 has a first heading, which nobody is talking about, which provides for a system of identification and registration for beef based on earmarks, passports and computerised support which guarantee its traceability.
The second heading establishes an obligatory system of labelling of meat and two stages for its implementation.
In the voluntary period for application of Regulation (EC) No 820/97, 36 specifications have been approved in Spain in order to put it into practice, and I can assure you that this has given the consumer confidence and contributed to the recuperation of consumption, which dropped considerably as a result of mad cow disease.
What matters most to consumers, particularly in the light of the recent food crises, is to know where the animal was born and where and how it has been fed throughout its life.
Furthermore, this Regulation lays down obligatory minimum requirements and there is always the possibility of voluntary optional labelling.
Mr President, I would also like to concentrate on this issue of category of animal labelling.
This is very sloppy, very amateur and unacceptable as a way to treat this House.
It is extra bureaucracy and red tape - which is probably why my own government in the UK has supported it.
But it is not in the interests of consumers, nor of the industry and, specifically, it is not in the interest of small abattoirs which would have the greatest difficulty in dealing with it.
Finally I ask the Commission and the Council to take note that we welcome the principle of labelling beef by country of origin and that we call on the French presidency to set an example by making an immediate commitment to accept all beef so labelled from all EU countries and let the consumer decide.
Mr President, Commissioner, can I first of all say I very much welcome this opportunity to follow the debate on this issue, but quite frankly I think it has tried our patience for a long time and most of us would like to see it resolved as soon as possible.
Therefore, we are drawing up a law giving the consumer the right to know what he is buying and at what price, according to principles of transparency, clarity and information.
The work on the traceability of all the information regarding the animal' s country of provenance and country of birth and, in particular, where the animal was fattened, is therefore excellent.
Timing has always been vital in this area, and it still is.
You all know that the introduction of the compulsory labelling system had to be deferred last December because agreement could not be reached within the time frame available.
This deferral expires on 31 August, which in practice means that it runs out at the end of this month, because Parliament does not sit in August and no further sittings can be called.
Before I talk about the amendments tabled for tomorrow' s vote, I would like to make a couple of brief comments about the Council common position approved by the Council on 6 June.
This took place on 3 May.
Once a number of further changes to the text requested by Parliament had been made, it was possible to reach an agreement based on which the following Agriculture Council approved the Council common position.
It was only possible to achieve all these joint solutions between the Council and Parliament because the Member States agreed that no more national beef labelling schemes would apply after 2002.
There are now amendments to be considered in plenary sitting, and approving some of these amendments would have far-reaching consequences, above all in terms of timing and as regards the adoption of the regulation.
For example, as several speakers have noted, two amendments on labelling minced beef have been tabled.
This issue has been scrutinised in great detail both here in Parliament and also by the Council.
One of the two new amendments reiterates the view that producers of minced beef should give precise details of the origin of the beef they have processed.
Ladies and gentlemen, given the industrial conditions under which minced beef is produced nowadays, this would quite obviously be asking too much.
This demonstrates that the regulation will also have a similar impact.
If the worst came to the worst, it could even lead to some companies, especially in the smaller Member States, going bankrupt and the market for minced beef being completely renationalised.
And you cannot convince me that a Polish cow imported into Austria would be a problem for Austrian consumers.
Because I can tell the honourable Member that if a consumer buys minced beef in a butcher' s shop in Austria, he has the piece of meat minced in front of his own eyes, and in that case there are no problems either with origin or anything else.
If you start interfering in that, then companies like this will use products originating solely in their own country and nothing else.
I do not therefore believe that this new proposal would improve or add to information for consumers.
I therefore suggest that we should stick to the provisions on minced beef as laid down in the common position.
This is also intended as the basis for introducing categories in this case.
If we were to gear our decision-making to when it occurs to the last Member State that it is now ready to establish technical requirements, then we would be gearing the process to those who are dragging their feet on compulsory beef labelling.
The market will in fact penalise those who were not prepared to establish the technical requirements for beef labelling promptly.
I would therefore ask you to bear these considerations in mind when you vote tomorrow.
The matter of raising conciliation will be after the vote tomorrow.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at noon.
Parliament explicitly supported this initiative in its contributions to the extensive consultation process which the Commission launched through its Green Paper on Innovation in Europe in 1997.
We need a Community patent in order to stimulate innovation, which is a key factor for growth, competitiveness and job creation in Europe.
Our industry, as well as our research and scientific community, have stressed for some time now the need for a patent which is affordable, valid throughout the Community and which offers legal security.
The Community patent will co-exist with, and complement, existing systems by offering a more attractive alternative for those businesses, both big and small, operating within the internal market.
This will reduce the uncertainty linked to fifteen different national legislations and, of course, after enlargement, many more.
Legal certainty will be considerably reinforced by the creation of a centralized judicial system which will guarantee the quality and coherence of case law relating to Community patents.
The creation of such a centralised jurisdiction requires a change to the EC Treaty.
Finally, our proposal will help to reduce considerably the costs of patents in Europe by not requiring supplementary translations of the patent once it has been delivered in one of the three languages of the European Patent Office.
Previous attempts to create a Community patent, in particular through the Luxembourg convention of 1989, failed because of a lack of ambition on the two key issues: firstly, the cost and secondly, the litigation.
We must convince Member States of the need to change the Treaty to create a centralised jurisdiction for Community patent litigation.
Mr President, Commissioner, the proposal for a regulation on a Community patent gives us the chance to review cooperation, as you have just said, between the European Patent Office and the Community institutions.
We must not skimp on this question, especially now that we are introducing a Community patent.
I warmly welcome the proposal and hope that the IGC is ready to make the necessary changes to the Treaties.
But I would like to ask a specific question concerning the process in EPO.
Mr President, I would like firstly to congratulate the Commissioner.
As he has said, this is probably the most ambitious internal market project we are currently dealing with and I am happy to say this on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and as rapporteur on this issue.
It is ambitious, Commissioner, because, in addition to what you have said, there is a fundamental reason, based on the principles of the internal market, for having a Community patent.
If we want our internal market really to be a domestic market for companies and consumers, the current fragmentation suffered by patents, resulting from national borders, makes no sense.
Having said this, it is an ambitious and difficult project, because, as you have mentioned, it requires a change to the Treaty and to the constitutions of at least four or six Member States.
On the first question, the Commission is aware of the concerns that have been raised in France and elsewhere about the directive and in particular about possible inconsistencies between two paragraphs of Article 5 of the directive.
May I stress that in my opinion there is no contradiction between the first two paragraphs of that article, the wording of which I believe relies heavily on suggestions made by this Parliament.
The first paragraph provides that the human body at various stages of its formation and development and the simple discovery of one of its elements, including the sequence or partial sequence of a gene, cannot constitute patentable inventions.
However the second paragraph of Article 5 states that an element isolated from the human body or otherwise produced by means of a technical process, including the sequence or the partial sequence of a gene, may constitute a patentable invention, even if the structure of that element is identical to that of a natural element.
Here the invention arises from the isolation of a particular gene from its natural surroundings or by its production by means of a technical process.
A note setting out the Commission's position on this issue has been placed on our website.
Our proposal on a Community patent, which is the subject of the discussion this afternoon, does not affect the existing regime, which is governed by the directive of 1998.
I think, however, that it could have been achieved in a different way and without creating a Community patent.
One question that is important to deal with here in Parliament, and that will definitely be something that affects the linguistic diversity within the EU, is also whether we will guarantee equality between small and medium-sized enterprises that operate in all parts of our Union.
When we recently discussed the research White Paper, we all took the view that it was vital to move forward on this topic because it was important not only to do very good research in Europe, but also to optimise the conditions for its industrial exploitation.
So on that account I welcome Commissioner Bolkenstein's statement.
The word 'centralisation' is unfortunate in this context because it suggests a single centre of what is already a polycentric community.
My Group would be very unhappy about such a proposal.
It seems to us that copyright is the right way to protect software and that introducing patents in this sphere would be unhelpful and contrary to good legal principle.
The European patent is not to be confused with the Community patent.
The European patent is a basket of national patents, so an inventor would apply for a patent, for example, for Benelux, France and Germany, five countries out of 15.
We are not concerned here with any geographical centrality - although I must admit I do not know whether Luxembourg is or is not in the centre of the European Union.
Let them use their capacity to enlighten small and medium enterprises about what is going on in Munich and what has been published in English, French or German.
In that way they can stimulate and help the small and medium enterprises existing in those respective countries.
The question then arises: does the Commission have room for manoeuvre in this respect?
Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to congratulate you on presenting this proposal.
Indeed we all hope that in the interests of the competitiveness of the European Union, this unending Community patent saga will now have a happy ending.
That is why it was right - and I would like to specifically support you here - not to overburden this proposal with sensitive issues such as patent protection for biotechnology products.
I would like to ask him four questions.
I do not think we should adulterate the quality of the patents delivered by the European Patent Office and therefore we should maintain the threshold as it is.
The average cost of European patents is three times the cost of an average Japanese patent and five times the cost of an average American patent.
Mr De Clercq says why can we not have five languages.
There is a European Patent Convention and 15 Member States have signed the Convention but a number of other states have also signed it so the Commission cannot tell the European Patent Office what its language arrangements should be.
Lastly, when enlargement takes place the Union will become bigger, obviously, and the Community patent will then apply to the countries that have acceded to the European Union.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B5-0532/00).
The Commission considers that any solution to the complex issue of preservation of traffic data should achieve a fair balance between the different needs and interests of those involved, while fully ensuring fundamental human rights with regard to privacy and personal data protection.
On the one hand, privacy protection authorities have considered that the most effective means of reducing unacceptable risks to privacy, while recognising the need for effective law enforcement, is that traffic data should in principle not be kept only for law enforcement purposes.
On the other hand, law enforcement authorities have stated that they consider the preservation of a minimum amount of traffic data for a minimum period of time necessary to facilitate criminal investigations.
Furthermore, industry will have a key role to play in contributing on a voluntary basis to the process of creating a safer information society.
Users should have confidence in the safety of the information society and feel protected from crime and from infringements of their privacy.
In the same context of the e-Europe initiative, as well as in the multiannual action plan on safer use of the Internet, the Commission plans to support a number of actions aimed at stimulating the use of the Internet and promoting security and confidence among the users.
This not only applies to the EU institutions and Member States, but also to the consumer and industry, so that we do not find ourselves in a situation of inconsistency in which one hand is doing something relating to the eEurope initiative, while at the same time we are doing something else in connection with crime.
In Feira it is precisely consumer confidence that is being identified as a key factor for the development of e-commerce.
It is not the intention of the Commission to do anything in secret generally and more specifically, in this area.
But as you can imagine, in this new field we have to address the need to reinforce security on the basis of the subsidiarity principle, in the sense that we have to recognise that each Member State is entitled to adopt its own national legislation to guarantee law enforcement at national level.
Our approach is to guarantee minimum common levels of law enforcement at European level, which does not prevent Member States introducing more stringent or national legislation.
The presidency report to Feira indicated that the conclusions of Cologne and Helsinki could be implemented without it being legally necessary to amend the Treaty unless the Council's decision-making powers were to be altered or the Treaty's provisions regarding the WEU needed to be amended.
The presidency has suggested that the issue of a revision of the ESDP provisions in the Treaty should remain open to examination as required before the Nice European Council.
What is clear is that the military headline goal agreed at the Helsinki European Council will require a concerted and coordinated effort by all Member States.
But it may be helpful to distinguish between two component parts of the overall European security and defence equation, the Petersberg tasks of peace-keeping and peace enforcement on the one hand and territorial defence on the other.
All EU Member States have agreed this and are ready to contribute to it.
The excellent record of the European neutrals in the field of peacekeeping and crisis management operations has come very much to the fore in the new European security context.
All four Member States which are not also members of Nato are contributing actively and constructively to the development of CFSB in general and to the European security and defence policy in particular.
Their contribution to the last IGC was indeed crucial to the inclusion of the Petersberg tasks in the new Treaty.
Finally, I have no doubt that their contribution in this area - materially as well as in the ongoing discussions shaping the new structures of cooperation will continue to be both active and ambitious, be it in the military or non-military dimensions of conflict prevention, conflict resolution and crisis management.
Mr President, Commissioner, I thank you for your full reply.
What is being transferred is the Petersberg tasks alone, with of course the institutional and administrative mechanisms which are at the disposal of the European Union.
There are various possibilities about what will happen to the collective defence clause but it is not, given my responsibilities, really a question for me.
Question No 28 by (H-0555/00): Subject: International Criminal Court The Commission, and particularly the Commissioner for humanitarian aid, played an important role in the setting-up of the new, permanent International Criminal Court (ICC) in June 1998.
However, to become a reality, the Rome Statute must be ratified by 60 States.
However most Member States will ratify the Convention during this year, including some already this summer such as Germany, Austria and the Netherlands.
The Commission supports NGO initiatives that promote the establishment of the ICC.
In 1999 about EUR 1.5 million was allocated to such activities in line with the budgetary comments for budget line B7706 of Chapter B77.
The Brenner is one of the crucial transit routes via the Alps and is therefore a good example of the need to act in a balanced way, with regard to both railways and roads, in order to protect the environment and, at the same time, guarantee the free movement of goods.
As regards the railways, the Commission - as the honourable Members know - supports the measures adopted by the Member States to develop and implement the Brenner railway project.
The Brenner high speed railway line has been included on the list of maximum priority Community projects and has received considerable Community funding via the Trans-European Networks.
With regard to the roads, we must stress that an increase in road traffic in no way automatically implies more pollution.
For example, the Eco-point system has shown that the emissions of polluting gases from lorries in transit through Austria have dropped despite the increase in the number of journeys made.
I consider that this proposal could be a pilot solution for the new projects and the concept of European Union transport as a whole.
However, I hope that, before concluding the period set for the 14 Essen projects, the Brenner project will be under way.
Therefore, until the implementation of the agreement with Switzerland - and I hope that will be next year - which has been ratified by the Swiss people, an agreement which will undoubtedly open up alternatives to the current routes and will allow some of the north-south traffic to use certain corridors through Switzerland, there are not many alternative routes, especially because certain routes have had problems with tunnel accidents in recent times.
As to the specific question relating to an article in a Turkish newspaper on the 22 January, I can say that there is no Community funding involved in what this article relates to.
Written confirmation has been received from the Commission's representation office in Ankara that the article in question makes no reference to European Union or any external source of funds.
What bothers me is the fact that the Hürriyet, which is, I believe, the most widely read Turkish newspaper, did not meet with any denial on the part of the Turkish Government and, as we all know, freedom of the press is something of a problem in Turkey.
It has highlighted the close and complex interaction between government policies and the environmental impact of livestock production, and identified a large number of technologies which are available to mitigate the negative effects in all different production modes, provided the appropriate policy framework is in place.
We adopted in the Community already in 1989 a directive on the protection of animals kept for farming purposes.
As to the problems related to genuinely industrial-scale activities in this sector, we are working with the group of other donors and countries involved whom I mentioned, in order to do this as sustainably and acceptably as possible.
The mutiny which took place in 1996 in the Central African Republic caused considerable hardship and personal danger to a number of people working there.
I would unfortunately have to put this one in the category of cases showing what some of the problems are between the services in the Commission.
A little more than EUR 10 million are currently under implementation.
If the evolution of the situation should require, these additional funds then can be mobilised.
Planning of future assistance has to take into account the volatility of the situation on the ground.
Bearing in mind that a quick return of all the displaced persons currently residing in Ingushetia becomes more and more unlikely, it will also be necessary to duly take into consideration an adequate follow-up to the on-going operations in this area.
However, to be perfectly objective, I do realise that, since this principle was introduced in 1989, difficulties have arisen as regards the transmission of information to the Commission by a number of Member States, from the point of view both of the methodology used and the regularity and frequency of the reports.
In view of these problems and in order to solve them, the Council decided, at the Commission's proposal, to simplify the control and application of additionality for the new programming period starting this year and ending in 2006.
Most Member States have sent in appropriate information, especially regarding funding.
It is true, Mr Nogueira Román, and there is a text with which I must comply, stating that the Cohesion Fund is not subject to additionality requirements.
It is not subject to this principle because, may I remind you, the Cohesion Fund was and still is there to help less developed Member States catch up and, in numerous cases, accede to monetary union.
That is one part of my reply.
I must admit that there is a weakness in the regulation as regards possible sanctions for countries which do not comply with this principle.
That is why I put in so much effort, in a preventive sense, when we approve the Community support frameworks, when we approve the SPDs, when I meet the ministers who come and see me, when I go and see them in the field, almost every week in some region of Europe, in stating my attachment to a number of principles.
However, in application of article 11 of the general regulation, the Commission makes and will continue to make approval of Community support frameworks, SPDs for 2000-2006 and mid-term approval and reprogramming conditional upon our departments being sent information on the principle of additionality and compliance with it by the Member States.
I admit that there is a weakness from the point of view of sanctions for those who do not comply with additionality.
So it seems to me a little bizarre that we spend ages trying to build up exactly correct structural maps in the full knowledge that nothing under the additionality principle actually guarantees that the Member State will increase expenditure in the region in question.
In this specific case, I said 'a weakness' .
We can confirm that the principle is being applied at national level and, at the same time, that it is not being applied in a region where it is needed.
Nonetheless, I must also say that the regulation does not allow me, on this precise point, to issue instructions.
I can do no more than demonstrate that I am keen to enter into dialogue and that I am available, in the case which you have pointed out to me and in every other case, to do so as actively as possible, while at the same time complying with the general regulation of the Structural Funds.
Question No 36 by (H-0528/00): Subject: New Structural Fund programmes and biodiversity The Commission is negotiating the new 2000-2006 Structural Fund programmes.
How can the Commission guarantee that biodiversity and the Natura 2000 network are protected and not threatened?
I personally sent these guidelines to each of the Member States on 28 March.
Because these guidelines were only recently adopted - when the Community support framework for Portugal was approved on 14 March - and the new programming period 2000-2006 is only just starting, I am honestly not in a position to quote specific examples.
I am talking about putting these new provisions into practice in specific Member States; let me also tell the honourable member that, to date, the overall situation concerning the submission of lists of Natura 2000 sites to the Commission is unsatisfactory, at least in five Member States: Germany, France, Ireland, Belgium and the United Kingdom.
The Commission has drawn the attention of the Greek authorities - I personally have done so twice on two visits to Athens within the space of nine months - to the need to set up efficient administrative structures before Community appropriations are transferred.
The most important thing is to set up management authorities and, as a matter of priority, the management authority for the Community Support Framework.
The Commission has welcomed the intention of the Greek authorities to adopt a new specific legal framework by the autumn, to regulate all these matters.
I personally - since I shall be in Greece for an official visit to Athens and Crete in October - shall have an opportunity to specify and verify this point.
We expect and we hope, Mr Hatzidakis, that these points will also be quickly finalised.
The Commission is well aware of the problems, especially those which you have just pointed to in connection with the operational nature of the Management Organization Unit.
As far as more efficient management is concerned - over and above what has already been done under the previous Community support framework, - I would remind you that the Greek authorities have agreed to draft a bill adapting administrative practice to the rules of the Structural Funds.
This law is based on the provisions included in the Community Support Framework.
The computer system for integrated management will also need to be fully operational.
So I shall be checking with the Greek government that everything is in place at the level of this new Community support framework.
And the framework to be implemented must of course include a proper evaluation system for each region, especially proper management and disciplinary systems, as well as the principle of responsible decentralisation.
Question Nos 38, 39 and 40 will be replied to in writing.
We will proceed, late, to the last 20 minutes of questions to Commissioner Wallström.
As the author is not present, Question No 41 lapses.
Question No 42 by (H-0521/00): Subject: Reclamation work in Dublin Bay Reclamation work is taking place in Dublin Bay in an area submitted for designation as an SPA last July under the Wild Birds Directive.
However, according to documents secured by an NGO, Dublin Bay Watch, following a request under the Freedom of Information Act, it emerged that objections made by a local authority were rejected by Duchas on the grounds that 'the proposals to designate an extension would proceed unless a scientific case was made' .
While included in the 1999 proposal for extension of the SPA, the area in question was omitted when the extension was finally adopted at the end of 1999.
By way of background: the 1999 proposal for extension followed a Commission request to the Irish authorities to enlarge the SPA.
The legal deadline for completing Irish SPAs expired in 1981 and the Commission has for some time been concerned that the Irish SPA network remains incomplete.
In April this year the Commission notified a letter of formal notice to Ireland under Article 226 of the EC Treaty in which it drew attention to the general failure to complete the Irish SPA network.
The Commission is not aware of any intention to use Community funds in relation to the port reclamation project.
This is just one more example of the way that the Irish government is behaving in relation to its obligations under EU directives.
I welcome the recent decision on fining Greece and I would like to see the same thing happen with the Irish government if they fail to comply with directives.
Question No 43 by (H-0529/00): Subject: Management of toxic waste Environmental organisations in Greece have alleged that toxic and hazardous waste is being buried without any controls.
The Commission has very little information on waste management in Greece.
Greece did not report on the implementation of waste management legislation between 1989 and 1997.
However at the end of last year Greece answered four questionnaires regarding the implementation of four waste directives.
The most important aspects concern the absence of management plans according to Article 7 of Directive 75/442 on waste, Article 6 of Directive 91/689 on hazardous waste and Article 14 of Directive 94/62 on packaging and packaging waste, the failure to transpose Directive 94/62 and transmit data according to Article 12 concerning the packaging waste industry, the absence of a programme according to Article 6 of Directive 91/157 on batteries and accumulators containing certain substances and non-compliance with Articles 4 and 11 of Directive 96/59 on the disposal of PCBs and PCTs.
A first report according to Directive 94/67 on the incineration of hazardous waste has to be provided for the period 1998 to 2000 by the end of September 2001.
There are two codecisions, one dated 8 July 1999 and one dated 13 April 2000.
There is an additional recent opinion sent on 11 August last year and there is a letter of formal notice sent on 10 April this year for failure to apply a number of articles properly.
Secondly, I should like to say in all honesty that, as a Greek citizen, I am shocked by what you have said.
I should like to put two questions to you.
Of course the Greek Government and maybe also the local authorities should be asked how this has been handled.
From the Commission side we can continue the legal proceedings and the legal procedures as they are set out for the Commission, but I think what is most effective in cases like this is open debate in the European Parliament.
According to the report from the European Environment Agency on the state of the environment, the Topic Centre on Land Cover 1998 estimated that there are 750 000 polluted or potentially polluted places within the EU.
Directive 96/61 concerning integrated pollution prevention and control, the IPPC Directive, states that Member States must take all necessary measures that are required in order to restore industrial land that is no longer in use.
This directive must be enforced completely before November 2007.
As far as the past pollution of land is concerned, the proximity principle ought to be applied, because national, regional or local authorities are in the best position to deal with these issues.
I would like to thank Commissioner Wallström for her reply.
As I have already said, we see this as a very great concern also from an economic point of view for many of the candidate countries, where this is often mentioned as an immense problem.
In order to be able to clean up in the best way possible, we need to consider what sort of pollution is involved and what the local conditions are like.
The manufacture and storage of pyrotechnic substances is covered by Council Directive 96/82 of 9 December 1996 on the control of major accident hazards involving dangerous substances, the so-called Seveso II directive.
Moreover, the Seveso II directive contains the new provision recognising that the implications of major accident hazards should be taken into account in the land use planning policies of the Member States.
Member States shall also ensure that all competent authorities and planning authorities responsible for decisions set up appropriate consultation procedures.
A review of the Seveso II directive is already under way.
This process will be carried out in close cooperation with the Member States, the European Parliament and other interested parties.
Annex A contains the provisions concerning the packaging and labelling of dangerous goods and Annex B contains the provisions concerning the construction equipment and operation of the vehicle as well as the minimum training requirements for the driver.
The application of this legislation guarantees a high level of safety for the transport of dangerous goods including explosives.
The tragedy in Enschede, in the Netherlands, illustrates this all too clearly and in Portugal, which I referred to in my question, 159 houses in the village of Lanhelas in the province of Minho were hit by the explosion.
We will be looking at this as soon as we have evaluated all the information about these accidents.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 46 to 78 will be replied to in writing. (The sitting was suspended at 8.05 p.m.
Mr President, Commissioner Wallström, we thank you for being here at this time in the evening.
By adopting a system of environmental management, companies - whether they be industrial or service companies - learn to integrate environmental considerations into the normal management of the company, discovering the many and significant advantages, not only environmental but also economic, which this offers them, amongst other things, because they improve their competitive position.
It therefore seems to me very significant that this regulation is currently being reviewed and that new elements are being incorporated into it which are extremely useful for the environmental improvement of processes, services and products.
The creation of more incentives for European companies to have access to the system, the participation of interested parties - especially workers -, the strengthening of reliability vis-à-vis third parties and an increase in the transparency of information are the main objectives of the amendments which I took up on first reading in Parliament and which were approved unanimously in the Environment Committee.
Nevertheless, the committee also approved certain amendments which were contrary to the opinion of the rapporteur, and I have continued to disagree with them.
In fact, the large plants, as stipulated in the IPPC Directive, will continue to be obliged to be included in the EMAS register, since they will have to abide by the environmental legislation in force - Amendment No 12 - which obviously includes compliance with the IPPC Directive in the cases where companies are affected.
I would also like to insist on Amendments Nos 41 and 50, which my Group would be prepared to accept as long as it is made clear that the word 'representatives' refers to people chosen as such within each company and in no event to organisations, whose participation would hinder and delay the process of adopting the system.
I hope that tomorrow other groups will offer oral amendments in this respect.
Mr President, our experience of the Community eco-audit scheme has been very mixed.
In Germany and Austria a great number of businesses have taken part in it, whereas the uptake from businesses in other Member States has been very low.
The aim of the present revision must therefore be to make the eco-audit scheme more attractive.
My Group also attaches particular importance to the participation of employees and their representatives.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the intention behind EMAS is an excellent one: encouraging companies to have more respect for the environment.
Seven years after its creation, however, EMAS is a success only in some countries.
I mean Amendments Nos 5, 10 and 17 on the best available technologies, the BATs.
On the other hand, in the spirit of compromise, we are ready to support Amendments Nos 43, 44 and 45, which link these best available technologies, from the environmental viewpoint, with conditions that are economically and technically viable for businesses.
On the other hand, we reject Amendments Nos 41 and 50, because more restrictive measures here again threaten to discourage a large number of candidate firms.
It is essential that this element, and the amendments in relation to best available technology, be supported by Parliament.
If we are serious about trying to encourage firms in the right direction then we have to encourage the best available technology.
The changes proposed by the European Parliament where best available technology is concerned should mean that all organisations which participate in EMAS should be forced to apply best available technology.
The concept of best available technology, which is expressly defined in the directive relating to coordinated measures for preventing and limiting pollution, is nonetheless only relevant to industry.
For example, the European Parliament itself would not be able to participate because best available technology is not a concept which can be applied to public institutions.
It might be said that it is a minimum requirement that environmental legislation should be respected.
The purpose of EMAS is to help organisations to perform better and to exceed that minimum.
If the European Parliament maintains its amendments, the basis of which is that compliance with environmental legislation must be guaranteed, EMAS' s role will be in danger of changing.
I would emphasise that the common position is flexible in this respect.
Account can, therefore, already be taken of special cases or special problems.
The Commission has carefully examined the 50 amendments which have been tabled and is able to approve 11 of these.
The Commission is therefore delighted to be able to approve Amendments 1, 2 and 19 (3).
The Commission is also very pleased to be able to approve Amendment 4 in principle, because it will help ensure that employees are more involved, something which has already been taken into account in the review of EMAS.
The Commission is therefore able to approve Amendment 16 in principle, if it is extended to include all information and not only data.
However, EMAS' s area of application extends to include more than physical assets, something which must be clearly shown in Amendment 22, which the Commission is able to approve in principle.
Unanimity and openness are also important principles for EMAS.
These are Amendments 5, 6, 10, 17, 43, 44 and 45, according to which organisations must apply best available technology.
The Commission cannot, therefore, approve Amendments 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 19, 21, 23, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 33 (1), 34, 35, 37, 41, 42, 47, 48, 49 and 50.
The Commission is unable, therefore, to support Amendments 13, 30 (2), 36, 38 and 46.
The Commission is pleased to supply information to the European Parliament upon request, but is unable to approve Amendments 18 and 20 because there is a lack of resources for this purpose.
Thank you, Madam Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The precautionary principle that is enshrined in the EU Treaty, however, makes it imperative to establish a limit value at which the health risk is extremely low.
The main aim of the proposed legislation is to establish limit values for atmospheric concentrations of benzene and carbon monoxide in order to improve the quality of our air and to avoid, prevent and reduce the adverse effects of these substances on human health and the environment.
The proposal was presented by the European Commission in December 1998.
The Finnish presidency made a determined effort to use the new legal scope offered by the Treaty of Amsterdam in order to have this proposed directive enter into force back in December 1999 after the first reading, with the amendments adopted by the European Parliament.
I need hardly say that our Group supported the amendments which emphasise the danger to certain sections of the population and which regard the proposed environmental measures as surpassable minimum standards.
Our Group accepts this common position and can support it as it stands.
I am aware of the significance of this directive in terms of the development and enhancement of European environment policy.
Its significance lies not only in the fact that it is important to have a limit value for this particular carcinogenic substance but also in the fact that it sets a precedent for the future regulation of other carcinogens.
Eventually, it became clear to us that in this case, it would be useful if we, as European citizens, were to deal with this on the basis of a kind of equality before the law, offering the same level of protection to the same citizens.
Mrs Breyer' s report went a long way towards further improving the Commission' s proposal at first reading, which took place in December of last year.
The limit values which have been set for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air are based upon the World Health Organisation' s latest recommendations and are aimed at achieving a high level of protection of people' s health throughout the Union.
The Commission approves Amendment 2, which expressly mentions the Internet.
The Commission agrees in principle with this requirement, but the common position expressed in Article 8.3 of Directive 96/62/EC, that is to say the framework directive on air quality, already obliges the Member States to compile this information and make it available to the public.
In order for the Commission to be able to approve Amendment 3 (1), the latter must therefore be substantially reworded.
Amendment 3 (2) contains a demand for free public access to the Member States' documentation concerning the selection of places from which to take samples.
I turn now to Amendments 1 and 4 which both concern the Commission' s review of the Directive in 2004.
Amendment 1 may therefore be approved in principle, but must be reworded.
Against the background of the results of a current investigation into benzene, mainly the southern Member States considered that they were uncertain of being able to achieve the limit value of 5 g/m3 by 2010.
Only through an addendum to Article 7.3, in which it is expressly stated that the Commission can propose further extensions in the light of the results of the 2004 review, was it possible for this agreement to come about.
From a purely legal point of view, this clause does not lead to the Commission' s right of initiative being limited or otherwise affected, but may be seen as an important part of the final compromise in the Council.
The Commission considers that the compromise to which this could lead would involve unnecessary delay in adopting this important directive in which, for the first time ever, limit values are established for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air.
The Commission is therefore unable to approve Amendment 4.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The members of the committee agreed with me that a recommendation is far too weak an instrument in this instance.
The Commission is very worried about this report because it recognises that if we persist in insisting on a directive rather than a recommendation, the whole thing may founder in the Council.
I believe, and my committee agrees with me, that the primary responsibility for enforcing European Union environment legislation should be firmly lodged where it belongs, with the Member States.
We cannot understand the Commission's readiness to propose only the minimum possible.
At the moment there are currently nine other environment cases which have come back to the Court of Justice for a second time because countries have ignored earlier judgments.
There are no less than 157 cases still pending and I regret to have to say that in many cases the European Commission has not been able to act, to bring cases to the Court of Justice, because it does not know what is happening in Member States as the countries concerned have not reported back to Brussels on what they are doing about legislation.
A recommendation will do no good.
I hope that the European Commission has the courage, and I mean courage, to accept the European Parliament amendments.
I hope that the European Commission has the courage to go into the conciliation process arm in arm with the Parliament against, and it will be against, the Council.
The first issue is that we want equal and effective enforcement of environmental legislation across the European Union and we must all agree to that principle.
The second issue is the clear conflict here between the Parliament and the Council.
Any student who wants to understand conciliation procedure or codecision procedure has a nice straightforward case study here.
The bad implementation of environmental rules has nothing to do with the lack of such rules and directives.
Some Member States already have well-developed inspectorates or agencies, and the guidelines will ensure that they operate them in accordance with common standards without necessarily having to change their systems that much.
For those Member States which do not, the recommendation will be helpful to enable them in the first instance, with the possibility of Community funding for eligible Member States, to develop their infrastructure and capacity.
We have already achieved some progress in the area with the IMPEL inspectors' exchange programme and the other work that IMPEL has done on inspections, monitoring frequency of inspections etc.
This proposal should therefore be viewed as the first step in an ongoing programme, and the experience gained in this operation will help us to consider at subsequent stages how to broaden the nature, scope and application of the minimum requirements.
The proposal requires Member States to report back on the operation, and I will take a personal interest in this.
In that case we will have failed those Member States most in need of assistance and guidance, and the consequence will be no change in the status quo and no improvement in those Member States' implementation.
For these reasons the Commission cannot accept any of the proposed amendments relating to changing the form of the proposal from a recommendation to a directive.
However, if the proposal is to remain in the form of a recommendation, the Commission can accept in principle Amendments Nos 2, 10, second part, and 15, second part, in relation to point 9.1.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 3258/86 on the protection of the Community's forests against atmospheric pollution [COM(1999) 379 - C5-0076/1999 - 1999/0159(COD)], and II.
proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 2158/92 on the protection of the Community's forests against fire [COM(1999) 379 - C5-0077/1999 - 1999/0160(COD)].
Parliament queried the regulations with the European Court of Justice on 30 April 1997, and this was resolved on 25 April 1999.
The European Commission and the Member States committed themselves, on an international level, at the Ministerial Conferences on the protection of the forests in Helsinki, in 1993, and Strasbourg, in 1990, to the continuous monitoring of the damage suffered by the forests.
The Member States have established networks of systematic monitoring and observation posts for intensive and continuous monitoring of the forest ecosystems.
This proposal asks that the Commission be assisted by a standing committee on forests, as it is in many other areas; that it present an analysis of the application of this regulation with regard to its ecological, economic and social aspects, as well as a cost-benefit evaluation; that an amendment be included on the Mediterranean forests as a specific ecosystem for the southern countries and because of its importance in combating desertification and erosion.
It has just reduced the amount by 6 million for the fight against pollution and 20 million for the prevention of fires, without taking account of the rise in the cost of living index or the incorporation of new countries, Austria, Sweden and Finland, which almost double the area of forest in the Union.
Therefore, our proposal would be to increase that budget to 44 million and 77 million for pollution and fires respectively.
The Committee on Budgets is once again presenting amendments in which it wants no kind of notification to appear with regard to the budget for implementation.
Mr President, the importance of forests in the European Union is clearly illustrated by the fact that they cover 36% of our territory and employ 2.2 million people.
In several areas of the European Union, the forests are often the only viable economic option, because of poor soil or the lack of other natural resources.
However, given forestry' s unquestionable interrelationship with agriculture and its territorial impact, it is extraordinary that the Commission has not been more ambitious in its proposals and that the Council has historically been so short-sighted.
On the contrary, in some ways it has moved backwards, as demonstrated by this Community regulation on the protection of forests.
With regard in particular to the aspect which is of great concern to my country - the regulation on combating fires - it is regrettable that whereas in the period 1992-1996 the European Union benefited from an annual sum of EUR 14 million, this annual sum is now to be reduced to EUR 10 million, that is, by 40%.
Therefore, Mr President, I would like to suggest to the Council and the Commission that they increase this amount and, if possible, create a Community system for information on forest fires.
We have calculated that, if we let every speaker overrun for just 20 seconds, we should still be sitting here at one o'clock in the morning.
The basic regulations date from 1986 and 1992, and now the budget for implementation is lower, despite the fact that, since the accession of the Nordic countries to the European Union, the area of forest is greater.
We are also in a much worse situation in terms of fire prevention, because of climate change and the drought which we are suffering in many parts of Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, I live in the middle of the Nordic forests, which form part of the enormous area of Europe covered by forests.
I could spend all night and all of tomorrow talking about the history of the forests and about the enormous importance Europe' s forest areas are going to have in a future sustainable Europe.
However, this report concerns the threats to our forests.
Mr President, it is indeed gratifying to note the steady increase in the attention devoted to forests and to the state of their health.
The most southerly part of Mediterranean Europe is threatened by a process of physical desertification, in the literal sense of the word.
This issue of forests does not only concern the countries of the south, whose territories are affected, in the same way, of course, that the defence of the Nordic forests is not only of exclusive interest to the Nordic countries.
Mr President, the content of the regulation being discussed here is based on the situation that existed at the end of the 1980s, but since then things have changed greatly.
The regulation on the subject of the Community' s forests must be reformed, but Parliament cannot undertake financial commitments until the present regulation expires in 2001.
The situation is so different between the north and the south.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Commission has presented two proposals for the amendment of the Regulations on the protection of the Community's forests against atmospheric pollution and against fire.
The purpose of these proposals is to adjust both Regulations in the light of the judgment of 25 February 1999 in which the European Court of Justice declared that Article 130s of the EC Treaty - which has now been renumbered 175 - was the proper legal basis for these instruments.
It was also necessary to bring the annual budgetary framework for these two initiatives into line with the amount of funds actually allocated by the budgetary authority in the period from 1997 to 2000 and with the amounts already earmarked in the preliminary draft budget for the year 2001.
The Commission takes the view that this procedure would be inconsistent with the decision of 28 June 1999 on the comitology.
The Commission will present its proposals for their revision before the end of this year.
It has no problems, however, with Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of a training programme for professionals in the European audiovisual programme industry (MEDIA - Training, 2001-2005) [COM(1999) 658 - C5-0059/2000 - 1999/0275(COD)], and II.
proposal for a Council Decision on the implementation of a programme to encourage the development, distribution and promotion of European audiovisual works (MEDIA Plus - Development, Distribution and Promotion, 2001-2005 [COM(1999) 658 - C5-0119/2000 - 1999/0276(CNS)].
Against this background the MEDIA programme, following on from its predecessors, MEDIA I and MEDIA II, is expressly designed to address this deficit in the circulation of European works and has three main support targets: the training of professionals in the audiovisual programme industry through MEDIA-Training and the development and marketing of audiovisual works through the MEDIA Plus programme.
I do wish to point out, however, that in some areas we have proposed amendments which we consider to be extremely important.
The Commission is proposing EUR 400 million for a five-year programme in the audiovisual domain.
Four hundred million was the budget proposed by the Commission back in 1995, and unfortunately the Council rejected that proposal.
Whoever wants to grasp the opportunities offered by the digital revolution must be prepared to make the requisite investment.
The increase we are proposing is actually moderate; it would take the total budget to 550 million - 480 million for MEDIA Plus and 70 million for MEDIA- Training.
The mobilisation of private capital is perhaps our key demand along with the pilot project relating to the European Investment Bank.
The second area is the question of the legal basis.
This should also be made clear in the programme and be reflected in the legal basis.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very important report here today.
It will not enable us to develop a genuine European audiovisual policy to challenge the American hegemony in this domain.
Where the European Union can intervene, as it is already doing in MEDIA Plus, it should be able to continue doing so with a greater volume of financial resources.
We should like more money, and we should like this addition to the legal basis.
We are now entering the third round of support programmes for European films, and this support remains absolutely vital, for the European audiovisual industry has undoubtedly been in crisis for quite a long time.
During production and afterwards, an adequate promotion and marketing budget is generally lacking.
The programme draws on the lessons learned from the experience of the preceding programmes, but although the Council and the Commission are well aware of the present situation, they are still afraid to take the plunge.
This report therefore marks a new attempt to put this financial instrument on the agenda as an accompanying measure.
European film production is an important part of the EU' s cultural and media policy, and the Liberal Group considers that it is important to support the European film industry which is exposed to a very great deal of competition, especially from the American film industry.
It is the European Parliament' s and the EU' s task to establish the correct framework and conditions for a cultural policy of this kind, but it is not a proper part of our remit to spend an exorbitant amount of taxpayers' money on cultural policy.
We therefore think that the Commission' s proposal for a total overall budget of EUR 400 million over the five years is both realistic and appropriate.
It is similarly with certain reservations that we shall be voting tomorrow in favour of the proposals to set up a European Guarantee Fund and to broaden the financing options through cooperation with the European Investment Bank.
The media programmes were previously administered by the Commission in cooperation with the Media Committee as the advisory committee.
I fear that this change will make it still a little more difficult to administer the MEDIA Plus programme, so it is also with a reservation that we shall be voting in favour of the proposals tomorrow.
We of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance have called for attention to be given to the smaller countries, to the difficulties which smaller producers encounter in smaller countries or in countries which belong to a smaller linguistic group, and we particularly appreciated this being taken into account in the adopted amendments.
From a structural point of view, greater investment was necessary in the audiovisual sector to create fresh job opportunities for young unemployed Europeans and to stem the European Union brain drain to third countries, particularly the United States of America, where greater investment leads not only to better working conditions but also greater job opportunities.
Finally, considering development of investment in the European cinema industry to be extremely important, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy calls upon the Member States to pursue a policy of making sums reinvested for the creation of new jobs tax-deductible, and stresses the importance of establishing a guarantee fund as one of the measures necessary for the development of the independent audiovisual industry which encourages new talent and develops a cultural content of European tradition.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a Europe of economic and monetary union, it could have been an advantage for the MEDIA/MEDIA Plus programme to have Article 157 (industry) of the Treaty as its legal basis.
Now, reading the preview of this part-session produced by Parliament' s press department, I note that the MEDIA Plus programme is not one of this week' s highlights.
Culture is not paid much attention in this Parliament, as in all the European Institutions.
Like others Members who have spoken on this subject, I hope Article 151, on culture, can also be a legal basis for this audiovisual programme.
We urgently need to have audiovisual works distributed in every country in Europe.
Emphasising the cultural importance of the programme does not mean neglecting its economic importance, of course.
It seems that neither cultural necessity nor economic objectives carry any weight in favour of implementing this ambitious programme.
People may say the budget has been increased compared with the two previous programmes, MEDIA 1 and MEDIA 2.
The latter Committees - the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy - have done something significant in approving the proposal to change the legal basis of Media Plus, inserting Article 157 (industry) and Article 151 (culture) in order to give equal value to industry and the audiovisual sector.
The Commission has already indicated through press agencies that it opposes this amendment.
But in putting this before the House we have to ask ourselves two very important questions.
I also believe that this industry will be the spearhead of this century, in the same way as coal, steel and the infrastructure of railways were the impetus for the development of the revolution in the 19th century.
It is absolutely vital that we get in there as a series of institutions committed to building this industry.
The second reason is that we have to, in this increasingly homogenised era of global audio-visual content, get into the area of freedom of speech, freedom of expression and freedom of diversity.
That is where we in this House have an exemplary responsibility in performing our role in the development of this particular sector.
My own Group is very committed to the budget that has been laid out in the report.
Madam Commissioner, on a certain occasion in September, you said that we should declare war on Hollywood in order to strengthen the European film industry.
The only problem there is that our best warriors emigrate to Hollywood.
Commissioner, malicious gossip has it that you could be open to challenge, in purely legal terms, for awarding the European Film Prize in Cannes on behalf of MEDIA Plus, since the prize may have been funded from the MEDIA II budget.
As directly elected representatives of the people, we also have a legal and moral right to be part of the decision-making process in the field of cultural policy.
Mr President, I would like to say that I am pleased with the MEDIA Plus document.
Mrs Hieronymi, furthermore, has been very open to all suggestions and it seems to me that, in relation to other programmes, it contains an innovation which the Commission has also contributed to, that is, support for marketing and distribution.
Nevertheless, I would like a further step to be taken because, in my view, the MEDIA Plus document follows a principle which is rather like that of arts cinema: it supports in particular the script and the production when these days we know that post-production accounts for 60%, 70% or 80% of good films.
The problem, honourable members, is not just whether films produced in the US or films produced in Europe dominate the European market; the main problem lies with the content and quality of the films that we and our children watch.
The European Union treats culture in general and audiovisual media in particular as a commodity, as yet another commercial activity for big business and as a competitive market where the only winners are those who are best equipped to turn the market mechanisms to their advantage, rather than those who have something new or something of a higher quality to offer.
This approach is quite evident in the proposal for the MEDIA Plus/MEDIA training programme, from the very first paragraph of the introduction and from Article 1 of the proposal for a decision, which aims to allow professionals in the industry to take full advantage of the European and international dimension of the market.
Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur on the work that she has done.
There are some things that the public sector cannot do and some things the market cannot do.
Certainly the public sector cannot make good films.
Whenever we try it in the United Kingdom, any support from the government tends to mean that the film is going to be a flop.
I must pay tribute to organisations like, in Britain, the National Film School in Beaconsfield, which needs help to do its work.
Finally, it is very easy to write a long speech.
A higher budget will also make it possible to involve the Central and Eastern European countries to a greater extent in these programmes.
Thank you very much, Mrs Hieronymi.
Mr President, as you know, the Commission sets great store by the European Parliament' s opinion, especially with the Culture Council coming up on 20-21 July, because it is my job to let the ministers know the views of the European Parliament.
In this way, discussions between the Commission and the Council can progress usefully, not just on the basis of the Commission' s proposal, but also on the basis of the position expressed by Parliament.
Do not expect me to launch into a speech on the importance of European cinema.
You know my views on the subject; I share yours, but we are here this evening to produce the best possible draft.
All the amendments bear witness to a broad consensus in Parliament about the way the Commission has approached the MEDIA programme.
We both agreed that, in order to develop the content industry in Europe, risk capital needs to be made more available and instruments established to aid investment in audiovisual content.
I also agree that Community policy on audiovisual media should have a wider scope but should be developed as a complement to national and regional policies in this field, and synergistically with these.
Secondly, one of the acknowledged successes of the MEDIA programme is its adaptation to the needs of businesses in the sector, especially SMEs, through financial and training support mechanisms suited to their practices and strategies.
It is therefore essential for the implementation of MEDIA Plus to be based on professional expertise and for the support mechanisms to be accessible to the greatest possible number of businesses, in all the countries and regions making up our Community.
First of all, in the 'vocational training' section, I am in a position to accept in full, or in substance, 37 of the 48 amendments presented today.
Another factor is the exclusion of initial training: Amendments Nos 12, 110, 111 and 112.
Another problem is the exclusion of the training areas to be supported by the economic, financial and commercial management training programme: Amendments Nos 113 and 114.
My fourth point is the inclusion of training for technical professions in audiovisual media, Amendment No 18, and radio, Amendment No 33.
On the other hand, I am in favour of opening up MEDIA training actions to radio professionals, which may constitute a compromise between Amendments Nos 33 and 34.
Finally, there are two declaratory amendments on encouraging fiscal measures, Amendment No 4, and intellectual property, Amendment No 9.
I am willing to accept 57 amendments, 80% of the amendments tabled by Parliament, literally or in spirit.
I can make the list of these amendments available, Mr President.
I am forced to express reservations on eleven of the amendments tabled.
Four of them, Amendments Nos 53, 65, 69 and 93, are declaratory and outside the scope of the decision.
It will come as no surprise that my reservations relate, in particular, to Amendments Nos 44 and 54 on the legal basis.
Article 157(3) is the legal basis proposed by the Commission, and Parliament is seeking to add another legal basis, the article on culture.
Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your position, but I think Article 157 relating to industry is the appropriate legal basis for this decision - as was already the case for MEDIA 2 - considering its subject matter, its aim and its content.
Establishing an industrial policy for audiovisual media does not mean we forget about cultural diversity, because the aim of the culture industry is precisely the achievement, on the ground, of cultural diversity.
But the choice, as legal basis, of the article relating to industry conforms to consistent case law which lays down that in the framework of the system of Community powers, the choice of the legal basis of an act must be founded on objective factors capable of jurisdictional control and such factors notably include the aim and the content of the act.
MEDIA Plus is a programme intended to strengthen the competitiveness of the audiovisual sector, but I must stress that one recital, recital 11, highlights, if that were still necessary, the cultural dimension of the audiovisual sector, in accordance with Article 151(4) of the Treaty.
I note your concerns and I really hope that the next revision of the Treaty will offer a new framework, as well measures enabling the European Parliament to be fully involved in decisions on audiovisual policy.
As regards Amendment No 87 on the budget for the second section, my comment is the same as for the amendment on the budget for the training section.
As regards Amendment No 103 on radio, MEDIA Plus cannot be extended to other sectors given the financial constraints, but I have already made one concession, in the training section, to including radio in the programme.
On Amendments Nos 115 and 116, regional and minority languages, the Commission is, as you know, very concerned about respect and promotion of linguistic and cultural diversity.
Moreover, this concern is taken into account throughout the MEDIA Plus programme, primarily through positive discrimination measures in the support mechanisms in favour of professionals operating in countries and regions with low production capacity and with a limited geographic or linguistic scope.
Amendment No 115 would create a sub-programme within the programme.
But Amendment No 116 actually does nothing more than take up and specify the measures which are already scattered throughout the programme.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, beyond these few points of disagreement, which are minimal, I want to express my satisfaction at the cooperation and the many points of agreement between the Commission and Parliament.
The debate is closed.
Quality assessment, self-assessment of schools in particular, is a key element in the development of quality education.
In my opinion, it is especially important to encourage Member States to develop sound methods for assessment in education, bearing in mind that self-assessment is complementary to external evaluation.
Moreover, it is important to stimulate cooperation between schools and various bodies, also at local and regional level.
Finally, we reached general agreement in the committee on a large number of amendments.
We all know the EU has very limited responsibilities as regards education, but there are some places where the European Union can give added value.
In some parts of the Union - and I am quite willing to cite the United Kingdom - we are not doing as well as we could.
There are very many bright youngsters who do very well in the schools, but 20% of young people leave British schools without any qualifications at all.
I am quite prepared to believe that 15 heads, or 15 sets of data across the Union, will help us achieve better quality in the schools.
In studying the educational systems of the Member States of the European Union we should draw on a profound knowledge of the practices and acquired rights in our various countries, because each of our countries has its own educational reality.
Quality in education is a challenge for our society, but education must not become a focus for social operators who want to impose their personal aims upon it.
If an in-depth reform of the educational system is needed, it must involve all the partners in the system and, above all, it must not be rigid.
Any child who is failing is expressing his unease in the educational institution, but also in society.
The fight against failure at school, in other words, against failure in society, is and must be a major concern for anyone with political responsibility.
There is no miracle cure, but there are battles to be fought.
Let me just come back to a point that I raised myself in an amendment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been, as always, great harmony between the views of Parliament and those of the Commission.
The quality of education, and quality evaluation, are indispensable, as you have said, essential to being able to improve educational systems.
So we have to recognise that accepting quality control can sometimes be very difficult for education ministers, but it is indispensable, as everyone has said this evening, if we want to improve school systems.
I must also stress the very positive attitude of the Portuguese Presidency, which has moved this issue forward, and I join you in regretting that it has not been possible to complete matters at first reading.
But it is Parliament' s decision, and Parliament' s alone, to complete at first reading or to go further.
First, there has been a vast pilot project on quality evaluation, launched in 1997, and the proposal for a recommendation is based largely on the conclusions we have drawn from that pilot experiment, of evaluation as instrument of improvement of the quality and role of European cooperation in this domain.
Quality evaluation is essential if we want to make progress in the future, because improving basic skills will allow us to make a success of, and profit fully from, the opportunities offered our young people in the new knowledge society.
As you have said, the Lisbon European Council emphasised the importance of modern systems of education.
You know I have already started work on the eLearning programme and we are now following up with the quality programme as I have already presented the first report on quality, based on sixteen quality criteria drawn up by the Member States and OECD specialists.
For example, Amendment No 40 invites the Commission to define a plan for a follow-up in close cooperation with the Member States.
In the same vein, I am delighted with Amendment No 42, which allows the Commission to submit new follow-up proposals three years after the adoption of the recommendation.
Other amendments aim to extend the political range of the recommendation and I am very pleased with them.
So that is the sense in which I accept Amendments Nos 17 and 18, seeking to associate the candidate countries, as of now, in European cooperation as regards quality evaluation.
Similarly, I agree in principle with Amendment 36 which refers to the Eurydice information network.
It is certainly true that the Eurydice network, and in particular European unity, can support European cooperation as regards evaluation by making a common platform of basic knowledge available to the various players.
However, I think it is difficult to entrust responsibility for coordinating experience in this area to the networks.
Besides, I think the reference to Eurydice would be better placed in the invitations to the Commission rather than in the part relating to the Member States.
I am also delighted with Amendments Nos 21 to 35, which clarify the invitations to the Member States.
I hope with all my heart that the Council will rally to that decision, which is the result of a very broad consensus between Parliament and the Commission.
The debate is closed.
