Smoke-free environments (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Council on smoke-free environments by Edite Estrela, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, - B7-0225/2009).
The Committee on the Environment would therefore like its timetable to have been respected, which would allow for a thorough debate to be held on the issue and for Parliament to adopt a position.
Passive smoke contains more than 4 000 gaseous compounds and particles, including 69 known carcinogens and many toxins.
For example, workers in the hotel and catering sector make up an occupational group that is particularly vulnerable to the lack of global protection in most Member States and the exceptionally high concentration of tobacco smoke in bars and restaurants.
I would point out that Article 8 of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which, to date, has been ratified by 26 Member States and by the Community, obliges all parties to guarantee effective protection against exposure to tobacco smoke in workplaces and enclosed public spaces and on public transport.
Madam President, on 1 July 2009, the Commission submitted its proposal for a Council Recommendation on smoke-free environments, based on Article 152(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
So far, this convention has been ratified by 26 Member States and also by the Community.
With regard to the Swedish Presidency's work programme and in order to be able to give the other institutions sufficient time to give their opinions, on 8 July 2009, the Council called on the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions to submit their opinions at the latest by 26 November, 5 November and 8 October 2009, respectively.
I believe that the European Parliament is planning to adopt its opinion by March 2010 at the latest, which I find regrettable.
The Minister for Elderly Care and Public Health, Maria Larsson, confirmed to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety on 2 September that it is the Swedish Presidency's intention for the recommendation on smoke-free environments to be adopted before the end of the year.
I am certain that we will achieve our goal for the recommendation to be adopted at the Council's meeting on 1 December 2009.
The Council has examined the European Parliament's resolution that was adopted on 24 October 2007 on the Green Paper 'Towards a Europe free from tobacco smoke: policy options at EU level'.
The European Union's citizens and environment must benefit from the protection offered by the ban on smoking in public places.
I am a liberal and am virulently attached to this notion of freedom, free choice and free will.
The mechanism established in Article 22 for submitting reports is a good one, in my opinion.
I would also like to add for the record that we have adopted at today's session measures that will put the protection of non-smokers in the European Parliament on a proper footing. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to the resolution.
Nevertheless, it is not as easy as paragraphs 2, 10 and 13 of this resolution suggest.
We cannot provide special protection for children by taking action at a European level.
Therefore, I would ask you to support the amendments put forward by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) on this subject.
In Lithuania, tobacco consumption is banned in public institutions, in workplaces, in enclosed areas, in all eating establishments and on public transport.
In Lithuania, the Law on Tobacco Control was accepted quite willingly and in truth, even smokers themselves admit that they are now smoking less or, in some cases, have even stopped altogether.
Passive smoking has basically been eliminated in Ireland and adults have also cut back on smoking.
It is so easy to disregard the principle of subsidiarity when we think we are doing good.
If we introduce protection for non-smokers on a European level via health and safety at work, we are not protecting children and young people, because they are not employees.
Therefore, I would ask you to support Amendments 2 and 13 put forward by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
It is extremely positive that we are all so committed to succeeding in achieving smoke-free environments.
The Commission's report will also provide an appropriate opportunity to return to this issue.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Thursday, 26 November 2009).
However, the compromise motion for a resolution on smoke-free environments on which we will be voting on Thursday goes far beyond the protection of non-smokers.
For these reasons, I would ask you to vote against the motion for a resolution in its current form on Thursday.
A total smoking ban in 2012 would make these expensive investments obsolete at a stroke.
The draft Council Recommendation on smoke-free environments is not a sensible measure.
However, the European Union has no direct authority in this area.
The EU should therefore focus on what it can do to protect non-smokers, which means protecting employees in the workplace.
