Formal sitting - Award of the 2006 Sakharov Prize Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, it is a great pleasure for the European Parliament to receive the winner of the 2006 Sakharov Prize, Mr Milinkievitch, leader of the opposition United Democratic Forces in Belarus.
Aung San Suu Kyi, Wei Jingsheng and the Women in White have regrettably been unable to attend this ceremony.
Everybody knows that the presidential elections in Belarus in March were neither free nor fair and that the European Union was not able to send its observers, their access to the country being denied.
It gave the world several eminent personalities, such as Guillaume Apollinaire, Marc Chagall, Fyodor Dostoevsky, Dimitri Shostakovich and Tadeusz Kościuszko.
It was our children who spent long nights standing on the square in Minsk after the elections on 19 March, when the adults could not stand the cold and returned to their homes.
The regime realised that that protest movement could only be ended by military force.
On 19 March, the authorities did not expect to see tens of thousands of people coming out, despite the threat of reprisals.
That was our first victory.
He has now been on hunger strike for more than 50 days.
His state of health is extremely serious: he has lost 40 kilos, and his life is in danger.
This prize is also for him, and for Zmitser Dachkevitch, Pavel Seviarynets, Mikola Statkevitch and Andreï Klimaǔ and all of the other political prisoners in my country.
This prize is a sign of Europe's awareness of the situation in Belarus.
This prize is a recognition of Belarus's European future.
Or by Viktar Hantchar, the vice-president of the last legitimate parliament in Belarus.
Russia is a strategic partner for us, as it is for the EU.
We believe that banning entry to the countries of the European Union for people violating the Constitution and participating in repression is a very effective measure.
From 1 January 2007, the cost of a Schengen visa is expected to be EUR 60.
There will be no genuine elections, just as there is no genuine local government in Belarus.
I thank you for having faith in our victory.
Thank you, Mr Milinkievitch.
