I know they have already had a busy round of meetings this morning which will continue this afternoon and tomorrow morning.
I would therefore like to propose voting on a resolution in the next Strasbourg week and would suggest that we set a deadline of 12 noon on Thursday of next week for the submission of motions for a resolution. (1) &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like you to join with me in welcoming the 'Responsible consumption' week that is taking place in Brussels this week, and which is being promoted throughout the European Parliament's buildings.
Responsible consumption means that consumers are able to exercise choice in favour of ethically produced or fair-trade products, where the rights of workers are respected and where a social premium is paid to aid poor farmers and other producers in developing countries where goods are sourced.
This Parliament has played a major role in forcing the issue of corporate social responsibility onto the European agenda, and fair-trade is a very important part of that.
President, would you please thank the Quaestors for agreeing that this should take place in the Parliament this week, Oxfam World shops for running the stalls around Parliament and also other organisations such as the Fairtrade Foundation and Tradecraft Exchange from my own country who are supporting it.
Thus, for example, the communist leader Alfreds Rubiksx, who is today chairman of the Socialist Party, is prohibited from standing for election, despite the fact that his party is represented in parliament.
Finally, monuments to the SS are being erected with public aid and support at a time when the veterans of the anti-Fascist war are banned from wearing the decorations which they won in the war and some of them are being jailed precisely because they took part in the anti-Fascist war.
I wanted to take advantage of the presence in the Chamber tomorrow of the President of the Republic of Latvia and her celebratory speech, to highlight this unacceptable state of affairs, which I had the chance to see for myself, and to call on you to refer to this state of affairs during the discussions which you will be holding with her. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, as you will be aware, two days ago, an Italian missionary, Annalena Tonelli, was barbarically killed in Somalia in Africa.
This barbaric murder has had an enormous impact in my country, particularly because of the extraordinary humanitarian work done by the victim.
Colleagues may thus, during that debate, make some points on this matter if they wish. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I just want to take a minute to introduce the House to Kanga, a very special guest from Australia.
In my own country alone, eight people die each week in this manner.
Thank you for raising the matter. &#160;&#160; – I would like to draw this House’s attention to the fact that a military coup took place not long ago in the Republic of Guinea-Bissau.
This coup was carried out against an elected president.
Any coup or movement against a democratically elected political representative must always be condemned unequivocally.
Admittedly, the situation in Guinea-Bissau was already abnormal, since the People’s National Assembly had been dissolved and the process of electing a new assembly was proving increasingly difficult.
Guinea-Bissau needs aid in order to hold these elections, because there is a shortage of everything there, even of money to finance the electoral process.
More than that, though, this small nation also needs aid for development, peace, progress, and to ensure that its people will no longer suffer from violence and uncertainty about the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last Sunday a demonstration took place in Zaragoza against the National Hydrological Plan, one of the many we have been organising in Aragon.
Mr President, the overwhelming majority of Aragonese people do not want to be plundered.
We therefore defend, and will continue to defend wherever necessary, our position of ‘no diversion’. &#160;&#160; That concludes the item. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Commission communication on the full integration of cooperation with ACP states into the budget of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the European Development Fund (EDF), which provides aid to countries in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific region, and its integration into the European Community budget, is not new to this House.
It therefore gives me great pleasure to be able to inform you that today the Commission has adopted a communication proposing a complete transfer of the European Development Fund to the Community budget with effect from the next financial perspective.
Parliament is very familiar with the subject of integrating the European Development Fund into the Community budget, and has repeatedly spoken in favour of such a move, one that the Commission has also favoured for a long time.
The first proposal on the subject was tabled back in 1973 – 30 years ago – and the idea has been raised several times since, most recently in 1993.
The Development Fund is special because it is financed directly by the Member States and in accordance with a specific formula.
There are two basic reasons.
Firstly, the proposal will benefit all parties, in particular the recipient countries.
The second important factor is enlargement of the European Union.
It was agreed in the accession negotiations that the new Member States would not yet contribute to the existing Fund but would participate in negotiations on its successor.
The third element is the proposed new EU financial framework for the period following 2006, which is currently under discussion.
The communication agreed on today is therefore a practical feature of the new financial package that the Commission is proposing.
The current system of five-yearly negotiations outside the budget system increasingly carries the risk of ACP states being somewhat sidelined politically.
The advantage for ACP countries is that with integration in the budget, the aid would instead repeatedly be on the agenda.
The development programmes included in the budget with their annual performance reviews – including by Parliament – actually encourage more efficient processing of aid.
In addition, funding for global aid programmes such as the Global Health Fund could be used better if the Fund were included in the budget.
Instead, by harmonising the systems, we would increase efficiency, not only within the Commission services, but also for the authorities in the beneficiary countries and for all those who are involved in implementing the aid.
The ACP countries could possibly be worried that their particular concerns would be forced into second place by other foreign policy priorities, such as crisis situations.
These will have to be fixed during the forthcoming discussions on the next financial perspective.
Nevertheless, the Commission has proposed a number of important measures to protect future funding levels.
One major benefit the Commission foresees in integrating the EDF into the European budget is that there would no longer be these separate negotiations on the funding ratios for each new Fund.
Last year the European Union provided EUR 31 billion of a total EUR 60 billion in development aid, a figure that includes aid from the Member States along with Community funding.
By including the European Development Fund within the Community budget, European aid would become more visible, and could be more coherently presented; this would represent another important step in the process of strengthening the European Union’s international role.
The Commission is relying on Parliament’s support for these proposals.
Thank you very much. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the Commissioner knows, the European Parliament very much welcomes the analysis that she has given us here today.
I would like to know how you intend to ring-fence.
You said you were not quite ready to do this, but the diversion of EDF money towards other European priorities is something that we have been used to in the past.
Also, would you be prepared to suggest this in the proposal on the next financial perspectives for the end of 2003? &#160;&#160; It is, of course, essential that this proposal be discussed in detail with the ACP countries, and such discussion should also cover many features of the EDF that are laid down in the Cotonou Agreement, for example, I would suggest, the partnership approach and also the principle of concentrating on poverty eradication.
It could be done by including details of the financial envelope in the legal basis for a multiannual programme.
This amounts to a positive statement, one that must also be viewed in the context of the commitments made at Monterey.
That part of development aid which is financed from the budget, or will be in future, is obviously just a small fraction of the promised 0.39% of annual GNP, but I think that fraction should be guaranteed.
In fact, this oral question relates to a very important matter, namely the fact that over many centuries the Member States of the European Union have developed liberal professions, which are expected to fulfil certain specific roles.
Let me say that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market have been somewhat concerned by certain developments in Commission policy on the liberal professions over the years.
I am thinking of the debate, for example, that we held some years back on the money-laundering Directive.
This could put an end to a lot of the uncertainty among the liberal professions and provide clarity.
That should then give you some kind of yardstick for judging the views of this House on the very sensitive question of the liberal professions. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission fully recognises the role that the liberal professions can play in making the European Union’s economy more competitive, thus helping to achieve the objectives set by the Lisbon European Council.
The Commission certainly believes that the undoubted competence of the professions and their ability to establish relationships of mutual trust with their clients are vital factors in the success of members of the liberal professions, and engender a high level of satisfaction amongst their clients in Europe.
It is with this in mind that the Commission has adopted a number of initiatives designed, as has already been mentioned, to ensure that the general interest is fully protected and, in particular, to guarantee a high level of independence and of professional ethics in this sector.
The recent Wouters judgment of 19&#160;February 2002 and the issue of safeguarding customers’ rights are also relevant here.
In March 2003, we initiated an evaluation process with a view to forming an overall picture of regulation of the liberal professions and its effects across the countries of the European Union.
If the result is that some of this regulation goes beyond what can be objectively justified in order to guarantee high-quality services, on the one hand, and to protect consumer interests, on the other hand, the Commission, and also, I am sure, the members of the liberal professions themselves, will have to do everything in their power to ensure that these forms of regulation are reviewed.
Lastly, Mr&#160;President, I would like to remind the House that, in response to a proposal from my colleague, Commissioner Bolkestein, the Commission, on 7&#160;March 2002, adopted a proposal for a directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, the main aim of which, in view of the decisions of the Lisbon European Council, is to consolidate the 15 existing directives in this area and to increase the mobility of skills.
Without addressing the issue of professional qualifications, which remains an area in which the Member States have primary competence, the proposal aims to facilitate the provision of services to clients in any other Member State by members of the liberal professions with a qualification from a given Member State.
At the same time, the Commission is exploring -&#160;in a wider context and in line with the strategy for the internal market in financial services&#160;- a coherent approach to overcoming the persisting obstacles to the provision of cross-border services, with the exception of those related merely to recognition of professional qualifications.
Of course, if the Commission were to bring forward a new proposal in this area which also covered cross-border services provided by members of the liberal professions, it would take due account of the general interest objectives at stake and, especially, of the particular importance of independence and of professional ethics for these professions.
By way of conclusion, while reiterating its commitment to respecting the regulation and the restrictive self-regulation that apply to the liberal professions, and which can be justified on grounds of general interest, the Commission believes that it has a duty to increase its endeavours to create a level playing field for qualified professionals, so as to increase cross-border mobility and promote healthy competition, in the interests of both the professions themselves and consumers.
If I may use your own expression, Mr&#160;Lehne, we are all aware that supermarket rules are neither appropriate nor sufficient here.
Members of the liberal professions offer an independent service based on an extremely high level of knowledge on which it is difficult to place a value.
Members of the liberal professions need to be granted a special status in order to maintain this delicate and difficult balance, not just in their own interest but also in the interest of society as a whole.
As stated in the Treaty, Commissioner Monti, the general interest mission of the liberal professions may also justify certain limits to the rules of competition.
For this reason, legislation and the ethical regulatory framework may provide for exemptions from competition law in specific cases: in relation to professional fees, which may be mandatory, being set by the state; as regards an integrated approach to exercising the profession; in relation to advertising, where ethical codes may rule out the possibility of professionals passing judgment on each other; as regards membership of social insurance institutions; as regards mandatory membership of pension funds, which is accepted; and as regards exclusive rights for certain regulated professions.
I accordingly believe&#160;– and this reflects Commissioner Monti's statement&#160;– that, in this way, and solely by virtue of the delicate balance that we have to strike between profit and ethics, a fair relationship can be established between the free market, competition, regulation and ethics in general. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the previous speakers have highlighted the special characteristics of the liberal professions and the need for differentiated legislation.
Well, as Commissioner Monti has stressed, this differentiated legislation must be produced within a free market, in which clients normally have the possibility of choosing their professionals and furthermore can expect certain standards of behaviour.
We should prevent one danger: that of maintaining professional organisations in the field of the liberal professions as a kind of medieval body, which it is very difficult to join, and above all that this type of professional organisation should prevent the free movement of people within the European Union.
In other words, the two objectives, that of free access for clients or users to the liberal professions in any country of the Union, furthermore with the right to a system of a general nature, and also the right of access for professionals of one country to another country of the European Union, must be guaranteed.
I therefore believe that the Commissioner has made a very balanced analysis and furthermore I must congratulate him on his initiative to hold a hearing with the participation of people from the different sectors, but I hope that they are not just members of the professions, but also representatives of various sectors – industrial sectors, users, consumers – so that all aspects may be taken into account.
Ultimately, I believe that a new regulation will be required, a rather specialised regulation, for the liberal professions, but that regulation must not run counter to the general rules of the European Union.
When the liberalisation of a sector that provides a public service is discussed, people say that the sector in question is of a specific nature which needs to be taken into account and which means that the market rules applying to other economic and industrial sectors cannot be applied to this particular sector.
The liberalisation of professional services, as demanded by Italy's antitrust authority, is needed to help make many of Europe's industrial sectors more competitive&#160;–&#160;the sectors which are most dependent on the need to have a skills base and to be competitive on international markets.
I welcome the October hearing, as long as, and let me repeat this, it is clear that balance can only be achieved in Europe today if we succeed in weakening the closed shop and monopolistic stranglehold that the professional associations represent. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, President of the Commission, Commissioner, this debate reminds me a little of the debate we held on so-called services of general interest and competition law.
I do however entirely agree with the Commission that self-regulation cannot be used as a shield against the market and should not put consumers at a disadvantage.
Firstly, I was the rapporteur for Parliament's report on the proposal for a directive referred to by Commissioner Monti.
Secondly, a great deal of alarm has been caused in Europe, and particularly in my own country, by the Commissioner's various initiatives in terms of a series of research studies, of statistical data on charging structures and behavioural methodologies.
I believe that we all need to consider just what the word ‘profession’ means and its impact on the public.
There is a great deal of confusion in general between different types of professionals: intellectual professionals are quite a different kettle of fish from professionals in general.
Certainly, when we talk about competition we cannot talk in terms of prices but we should talk in terms of quality.
Quality is something altogether different, because it is quality that ensures health, freedom and safety.
For example, there is absolutely no way that you can compare two different items of handcraft with two different operations by thoracic surgeons.
Another thing which appears to have emerged from the debate is that we need to know more, we need to increase our knowledge.
In this regard, we must not forget that the clients of the professions are made up of both private individuals and companies: the impact of quality, of course, of standards of conduct and also of prices is therefore significant in terms of the real level of income, the citizens’ standard of living and the production costs of companies.
In this regard, Mr Karas, I feel that the comparison you made between this issue of the liberal professions and the matter of services of general economic interest&#160;–&#160;, to put it more succinctly–is extremely interesting.
Indeed, in both cases, we have to recognise demands that go beyond purely market considerations and, in both cases, I believe there is room, with due regard for those demands, for attempting to increase competition and efficiency.
I note, as you did, Mr Zappalà, that some alarm has arisen in a number of Member States.
In a preliminary press debate in a number of Member States, the European Commission was said to be intending to opt for uncontrolled liberalisation.
Irrespective of the fact that the Commission has a tradition of a certain prudence in its initiatives, we believe that, particularly in this field, it would be rather silly to start from the assumption that there is nothing that needs changing, although none of us sees uncontrolled liberalisation as an option. &#160;&#160; That concludes the debate.(1) &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the preparation of the European Council in Brussels on 16 and 17 October 2003.
I would also like to thank you, Mr President, and the other Members of Parliament, and the Commission too, for changing the order of business and thus giving me the chance to speak now.
I can assure you, Mr President, that I will do everything in my power to avoid this happening again.
I am grateful to the European Parliament for this opportunity to present to the House the main topics on the agenda for the forthcoming European Council, which will take place here in Brussels on 16 and 17 October.
On the morning of 16 October, before the European Council opens, the Intergovernmental Conference will hold its second meeting, at the level of Heads of State or Government, assisted by their Foreign Ministers.
Before I present to you the items on the agenda for the forthcoming European Council, I would like to say a few words about the special summit of Heads of State or Government which, as you know, took place in Rome earlier this month to mark the official opening of the work of the Intergovernmental Conference.
The Rome summit basically confirmed our shared understanding of the historic nature of this stage in the process of European integration and the need to provide the enlarged Union with cohesive, mutually agreed constitutional foundations; that, we are convinced, is essential if we are to strengthen Europe's internal cohesion and increase the credibility and authority of its international role.
The atmosphere of the first meeting of the Intergovernmental Conference, which was attended by the President and Vice-Presidents of the Commission and, as I mentioned earlier, the President of the European Parliament, in addition to the Heads of State or Government of the Member States, the acceding States and the candidate countries, was constructive.
There was broad consensus on the fact that the Member States were collectively accountable to Europe's public opinion for ensuring the success of the IGC in the interests of the enlarged Union and of its Member States.
The very fact that the Heads of State or Government adopted the Rome Declaration without difficulty is clear confirmation that the adoption of a draft Constitutional Treaty is a shared goal and a vital step for Europe.
The first ministerial meeting of the IGC resulted in further clarification of the timetable, methodology and organisation of the work which the Italian Presidency intends to carry out in order to provide the Heads of State or Government with all the elements necessary for them to reach a comprehensive agreement at their meeting on 12 and 13 December 2003.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming European Council in Brussels will focus primarily on reviving the economy and increasing competitiveness and on certain aspects of European asylum and immigration policy, in particular the issue of the joint management of the Union's external borders and controlling migration flows.
As is customary at summits, the Brussels European Council will also deal with topical international issues.
The agenda is still being finalised but I can tell you that, as things stand, the Summit will address the issue of the situation in the Middle East, following the recent, extremely disturbing developments, the situation in Iraq, with a view, not least, to the impending Donors’ Conference, and the situation in Iran, in the context of our endeavour to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
As I have already mentioned, the Italian Presidency intends discussions at the forthcoming European Council meeting to centre on the urgent need to revive the European economy.
Indeed, in March 2004, as scheduled, we will have our yearly appointment to review the overall implementation of the Lisbon strategy on the basis of the Commission’s report and contributions from the various Council configurations.
In other words, we expect the October summit to provide scope for a debate on economic growth and revival and on the instruments for increasing competitiveness in an economic climate in which Europe's economy is still struggling to seize the opportunities for recovery which are visible in other parts of the world.
We also expect the European Council conclusions to provide pointers and commitments to guide the work of the various Council configurations in the months ahead.
Indeed, we are convinced of the need to continue with sound macroeconomic policies while, at the same time, speeding up the necessary structural reforms, promoting investment in infrastructure and human capital and adopting economic policies oriented towards growth, job creation and genuine integration of the new Member States into the great single market.
The European Council should lay the foundations for a programme supporting growth based on significantly increased investment in major infrastructure networks and in research and development projects, with more substantial private-sector input.
We welcome the recent Commission communication and the Ecofin Council decisions on the European Initiative for Growth.
Developing the trans-European transport network projects and ensuring that they actually get under way is a matter of particular urgency, not only as a response to enlargement and in the interests of integration between the old and the new Member States, but also in order to remove the obstacles and bottlenecks currently distorting the operation of the internal market.
Indeed, we believe that it is essential to set a reliable timetable for implementing the projects in order to stimulate investment-based economic growth and to boost market expectations and business confidence.
Italy's recent electricity black-out has made us all more aware of the pressing need to complete the creation of a truly integrated European energy market and to strengthen the security of energy supplies, bearing in mind the Member States' heavy dependence on imported energy as well.
The European Council will thus need to provide guidance, not least, on better integrating European networks and developing new forms of energy cooperation with third countries, in particular with the Mediterranean partners, with a view to the Euro-Mediterranean Conference of Energy Ministers in Rome in early December.
Enhancing competitiveness remains the key to achieving the objectives of growth and job creation.
The Italian Presidency understands the need to use the right instruments, both at European and at national level, for organising a genuinely open, competitive market based on knowledge, industrial development and a steadily expanding and diversifying services sector.
Investment in research, advanced technologies and human capital is vital if we are to achieve our growth objectives.
The European Council will be called upon to provide the necessary impetus, stimulating Member States to adopt coordinated measures to ensure tangible progress towards the target investment of 3% of GDP in research and urging industry and all parties concerned to contribute to creating European technological platforms in key competitive sectors of the Union's economy.
Lastly, the European Council will also address the social dimension in its work and the vital role played by social protection systems in enhancing the competitiveness of Europe's economies.
However, social protection systems across Europe are now having to respond to the challenge of an ageing population, so, while it will be necessary, on the one hand, to ensure that the social dimension is strengthened and fully integrated into the Union's economic and employment policies, on the other, it is just as essential to devise policies for reforming the employment market and to address the issue of Europe's steadily ageing population by reforming benefit and pension systems to make them financially sustainable while, at the same time, maintaining a high level of social protection.
Given current economic pressures, that signal now needs to ring out loud and clear if we are to sustain the gathering pace of structural reform under the Lisbon agenda.
The forthcoming European summit will, therefore, be called upon to confirm that controlling migration flows is a top priority and to reaffirm the Union's commitment to promoting a balance between the proper management of legal immigration and renewed efforts to combat illegal immigration.
We therefore expect the European Council to call on the Commission, the Council and all Member States to do everything in their power to facilitate and speed up the conclusion of readmission agreements, in particular with the countries of origin or transit of large migration flows while, at the same time, confirming the importance of effective Community action on repatriation, in order to give credibility to Europe's policy on combating illegal immigration.
With the imminent enlargement of the Union and the need to make every effort to increase the security of Europe's citizens, the Heads of State or Government will, once again, need to stress that all Member States&#160;–&#160;old and new&#160;–&#160;have a common interest in seeing effective mechanisms put in place for the joint management of the Union's borders, particularly its sea borders.
The importance of fully implementing the plan for the management of the Union's external borders should therefore be confirmed afresh and the Commission invited to submit at the earliest opportunity a proposal for setting up a border management agency.
The management of our borders must therefore become a shared task that we tackle together in the interests of us all.
Our human social conscience tells us that unlawful trafficking in human beings and hopeful voyages undertaken under inhumane conditions cannot be tolerated.
At the same time, we must address the question of migration flows resolutely and coordinate the management of our common borders.
The Thessaloniki European Council showed the way, stressing the need to step up implementation of the Tampere programme, particularly with regard to a common European policy on asylum and migration.
As an initial move, the idea of setting up an agency for the management and operational coordination of border controls is currently being explored and the Council will be able to take a decision on this by the end of the year.
A pro-active policy on economic immigration and integration therefore needs to take account of the situation in the immigrants’ country of provenance, our economic and social needs and our effective capacity to integrate the new arrivals.
It is also our duty to combat illegal immigration, however.
As requested by the Council, the Commission has opened negotiations with third countries to establish readmission procedures for citizens who have entered the European Union unlawfully.
Although great efforts have been made, these are difficult negotiations because the Commission has to persuade third countries not only to readmit their own citizens but also to allow citizens on their way back to other states to pass through those countries.
For example, in the Authorised Destination Status agreement we concluded only last week with China, which includes a readmission clause, economic considerations played a significant role.
Some might say that they should not have done, but that is the way things are.
The other important point is the need to offer our partner countries guaranteed immigration quotas, preferably within the context of negotiations involving economic cooperation, development aid and access to markets.
Today, we find ourselves having to contend with migration flows in which it is difficult to distinguish between refugees in search of asylum and economic migrants: the two are very often confused.
First and foremost, however, we need to strengthen the institution of asylum, which is an integral part of our humanitarian tradition but which seems to be coming under heavy fire from public opinion in many countries.
To implement the Thessaloniki European Council’s conclusions by the end of the year, the Commission will complete the first phase of the development of the common asylum system agreed at Tampere by adopting the two directives not yet in place: one on procedures and one&#160;–&#160;a complex but important document&#160;–&#160;on the definition of refugee.
Needless to say, the last two years have not produced encouraging signs from our economy.
The underlying economic conditions (the fundamentals) are good because the Member&#160;States have stuck to the rules and behaved in less divergent ways, particularly following the introduction of the euro, and thanks to an increased awareness of the need to implement the structural reforms agreed in Lisbon.
A European transport and communications network is essential to better integrate our economies and to increase cohesion.
The new market opportunities guaranteed by the financial commitment of the Member&#160;States and the private sector will, in turn, encourage direct input from European businesses.
This is the overall picture of what must be achieved if we are to provide the single market with an effective infrastructure to make our economy more competitive.
The Commission will give the European Council an indication of the timetable for completing the works listed to enable the Heads of State or Government to concentrate all their efforts and make the greatest possible contribution to boosting the economy in the short term.
While the Initiative looks for greater private sector investment, there is clearly still a key role for public financing.
To increase leverage and thus speed up the completion of the works, we propose increasing the contribution from the Community budget from 10% to 30% for the cross-border aspects of the highest priority projects.
These are the only recipes for safeguarding sustainable employment in the long term.
We also need to do more in terms of lifelong learning and training for our citizens.
In addition to the great efforts they are making in the field of structural reform, the Member States will also, therefore, need to step up their work in these areas, taking advantage of Community resources such as the Sixth Framework Programme, the performance reserve and the mid-term review of the Structural Funds in 2004.
There is nothing for it: we must take the decision to provide Europe with the best centres of excellence in the world, for, otherwise, our children will lose enthusiasm for research and innovation.
These are the playing fields on which we will win or lose our future prosperity, our influence on the international stage and our capacity to defend Europe’s interests and uphold its values in the world.
Therefore, we must find the political will to meet this challenge and press forward resolutely towards the goal which I know you, too, are striving to achieve. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is starting much later than planned, and I would like to apologise because as soon as I finish speaking I will leave to attend another important engagement.
This claim always reminds me of Nikita Khrushchev in the 1950s and 1960s, when the Soviet Union wanted to outdo the US.
At the same time, we have to ensure that Europe’s economy becomes more competitive.
One is the reform of our social system, and the other is greater flexibility in labour markets.
Happily, people are living longer, but this also presents a massive challenge to our social system.
Our group feels very strongly that we have to introduce more independence and self-sufficiency into our social systems.
Our group would therefore like to encourage governments which are undertaking a tough reform process to address this issue to keep going, in order to provide us with answers for the future that offer genuine, viable solutions for today’s younger generation.
But if this legislation on chemicals results in European companies again investing outside the European Union because of the thousands of regulations imposed upon them and leaving the European market, then it will lead to further job losses and consequently a less competitive Europe.
Let me comment briefly on the question of the stability of the euro.
For this reason the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats recognises the need to uphold the stability criteria, although obviously we do acknowledge the difficulties that national governments are facing.
The President of the Commission and, I believe, the President-in-Office of the Council, have talked about how important it is to do something for education and research.
The issue must therefore be addressed more directly.
Let me also encourage the Presidency not to limit discussions at the conference on the Mediterranean dialogue in December to the very important question of borders.
I would like to encourage the President-in-Office to do his utmost to ensure that the Intergovernmental Conference comes to agreement by the end of the year.
Concentrate on the three or four key points.
We will support you in your efforts to achieve a result, because we need a European constitution.
I would like to say that those of us, myself in particular, who asked that Parliament be adequately represented, appear to have been listened to and I would like to thank the Italian Presidency for this.
It is very serious because we are working on the basis of shared legislative powers and the first thing the Council does is to dismantle something which is essential in a democracy: legislating in the open, in public.
Furthermore, I would say that this is not only a problem you face with us: it is also a problem you face as regards the national parliaments, because the greatest insult is to the parliaments of the Member States.
I would repeat my request that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs invite all the members of the Convention from the national parliaments and present them with this problem: how can the legislative Council be dismantled in the first session of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Stability protects the most humble and the Stability Pact is an urgent objective, but there can be no stability without growth.
At the moment the greatest danger to the European economy is not so much inflation but deflation and therefore, having lived through three years of mild recession, all the Member States must address a situation in which there are fewer resources, and they are therefore in a vicious cycle in which they have to increasingly get into debt or reduce investment costs and sometimes both things at the same time.
Since the end of the last decade public investments have fallen in the European Union by around 1% (in the United States this figure stands at 3%).
We must be more rigorous in periods of strong growth: for example, the obligation to have a balanced budget on the basis of 3% growth or more, the obligation to use anything that exceeds the 3% growth in order to decrease debt and to leave the States in the euro zone with more flexibility for investment spending during a recession phase.
What does not make any sense is to maintain a single level which does not correspond to the Union’s economic reality.
This was said ten years ago at the European Council in Essen.
With enlargement our EUR&#160;400&#160;billion are going to become the EUR&#160;600&#160;billion identified by the Van Miert group with a view to 2020.
The President of the Commission has proposed – if I have understood correctly – that funding should increase from 10% to 30% of the projects.
Our budget approximately represents a miserly 1% of Community GDP.
The United States deficit for this financial year is equivalent to 6 European Union budgets.
I do not propose that we go as far as the United States with the deficit spending, but we could at least make an effort.
When the Member States convene again to discuss Europe's draft constitution, they should recall the shambolic Nice Summit and reflect on the costs of failure.
The system of majority voting agreed at Nice is unwieldy and unfair.
When it comes to economic reform and the Stability Pact, the bubbles in the prosecco have long evaporated.
A level playing field for company take-overs is still frustratingly far away and we have much work to do to agree a viable framework for an integrated market in investment services before the European elections.
My group welcomes this week's decision by finance ministers to refocus the growth initiative away from road and rail projects and towards investment in innovation which will help to close Europe's research deficit.
In the field of Justice and Home Affairs, there is more sparkle in the Council's agenda.
The balance which the Liberal Group seeks to ensure between tackling illegal migration and providing for a system of managed legal migration seems to be essentially there.
The failure of Cancún must redouble our determination to secure reform of the WTO and trading arrangements which help the world's poorest countries.
The rescheduling of this debate has caused me this embarrassment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, the European Council will take place at a time when Germany, Italy and Portugal are going through a recession and when France is poised to follow them.
In addition to these countries, the entire euro zone is experiencing an economic downturn and, in many ways, a downturn in social protection too.
These leaders accuse Brussels in order to make people forget that their own Head of State personally negotiated the Treaties and signed the Stability Pact.
They only complain about the harshness of the procedures in force when they themselves are faced with a powerful and entirely legitimate resistance movement made up of workers in their own countries.
Its mandate and its statutes make those of the Central Bank appear to be the most liberal and untouchable in the world.
It is true that when economies are so interdependent, there must be common rules and these must be observed.
It would be marvellous if the European Council did not create a deadlock over this clear state of crisis and instead gave us its diagnosis and solutions, followed by a real debate with our fellow citizens.
The priority of monetary policy and of the ECB must, we believe, be to promote human capacities and consequently, first of all, making employment and training more secure for everyone.
Their task would then be to make our countries much less dependent on the financial markets.
This, in any event, is the type of debate that needs to be held to enable Europe’s citizens to state their feelings about the draft Constitution in full knowledge of the facts. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, quite a few of my colleagues have already drawn attention to the precarious economic situation and have also asked for structural remedies to be put in place.
They are the victors.
I am therefore asking for a less resigned and a more active stance on the part of the Quartet, and I hope that we can still curb the spreading of war and that we can truly turn into the direction of peace once again. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the focus at the forthcoming summit of European Union leaders will primarily be an economic one.
Coming so soon after the Rome Council meeting, it is in itself a clear indication by our leaders of their intent to put in place measures to reinvigorate the European economy.
The Lisbon Strategy must be implemented in its entirety across all its strands.
The European Union must become the strongest knowledge-based economy in the world.
This means that we must take full advantage of the new and evolving information technologies that are coming on stream.
European Union leaders must work towards completing all outstanding components of the EU financial services action plan, as well as creating a level playing field for mergers and company take-overs.
Completing a fully-effective internal market requires the progressive creation of an integrated market for gas and electricity to enhance security of supply in Europe.
European leaders must look to promote initiatives which guarantee that pension payments can be made in the future for an ageing population.
I collected 123 signatures to that effect in the Convention.
They could inform the public and act as the elected representatives of the voters in the body that has a monopoly on tabling legislative proposals.
I, personally, am optimistic, having experienced the Convention’s shilly-shallying, problems and difficulties; I am absolutely convinced that no one will want to take responsibility for letting two years work fail, no one will want to take political responsibility for failing to give Europe the Constitution that 450 million citizens are expecting.
I also firmly believe that a compromise can be reached on the number of Commissioners: in my view, the countries that will be part of the EU from 2004 should be represented from the outset; subsequently, we could see if we could get round the problem by using Commissioners without portfolio, but I feel that, to start with, there has to be a Commissioner for each of the countries that will be a Member of the EU.
I am sure that Parliament will be able to continue to make a useful contribution during the debate.
When prioritising, President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that we need to focus clearly on a Europe that is going from the West towards the East, but also at the Europe which is looking from the North to the South.
Because of this, there is absolutely no doubt about the fact that it is the EU’s duty not only to take on some organisational responsibility, in terms of policing measures, but also to shoulder economic responsibility in this regard. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, we should indeed not underestimate the significance of the next Brussels summit, or the effect that it will have.
Let me just say something brief about foreign policy.
We have to make it perfectly clear to Israel that, while we endorse its firm commitment to self-determination and to countering terrorism, it too has a contribution to make towards achieving peace.
The Convention proposes to lower the QMV threshold from 62% to 60%: a mere 9 million people.
Such a measure is urgently needed. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when, on 10 July, a standing ovation greeted the Convention’s adoption, in this room, of the draft constitution, the elation on the one side and the disappointment of the other could not obscure the fact that we had found the highest common denominator for the future of Europe.
We cannot stand by and watch as this replay of Amsterdam and Nice, perhaps with the outcome of Nice II or Nice III, takes us to the slippery slope and back to the lowest common European denominator.
Now is the time for us, in this House, to remind the governments that negotiations involve such a thing as good faith, and that, at the end of eighteen months of negotiations, you cannot behave as if you were not there and put on a shadow-boxing show that pits large against small and East against West, bearing no relation whatever to reality.
It is for us in the European Parliament, being also delegates to the Convention, to publicly denounce this national tug-of-war, to do so with all possible determination, and as loudly as we can, so that it is not just nationalism that makes its voice heard in Europe, but also the ideal of political unity! &#160;&#160; Mr President, it would have been nice if previous speakers had not doubled their speaking time, because we all have other engagements after this debate.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, one of your illustrious predecessors, Jacques&#160;Delors, said in a recent interview that the European Parliament would do better to deal with matters of concern to Europe’s citizens rather than focusing on human rights in Guatemala or on women’s rights in Equatorial Guinea.
These are undoubtedly interesting matters but, at the moment, what Europeans are more concerned with – and something that the Brussels Summit, if I am not mistaken, is due to address – is the incredible growth deficit that is threatening to engulf the European economy and, within the European economy, those countries in particular that chose to put their fate in the hands of the euro and the European Central Bank.
Whatever the criteria selected, be it debt, deficit, growth, unemployment, inflation – the three Member States that did not opt for the euro and which have kept their national currency are doing the best, including – see the Commission report on this matter – in the field of competition and the Lisbon strategy.
Mr President, Commissioner Prodi, on this matter, which is one of the European citizens’ deepest concerns, is anyone going to remind the European Central Bank of its job, which is to ensure growth, or at least to ensure that we have a currency that benefits the European economy? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, after many years of greatly underestimating the problem represented by the perils of illegal immigration, today, at last, if somewhat belatedly, the European institutions seem to be starting to take an encouraging line by beginning to make the set of policies designed to address and combat practically the challenge of illegal immigration fairer and more effective.
Some countries in the Union, including France, are boldly setting about this task and I hope that these efforts are not only acknowledged but also receive encouragement from Europe.
Whether in the European Union or elsewhere in the world, now is the time for multilateralism and for joint action and not for going it alone. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is a statement by the President-in-Office of the Council which could appear positive but which worries me very much.
Because we have not yet reached any agreement on any of the old European common initiatives in the field of immigration.
We need agreements on what the Commission has already proposed in relation to the legal framework for the management of legal immigration.
I am however in agreement, and I think it is a good idea, with the common management of borders.
I am very much in favour of combating organised crime and I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, whether, in this field and within the field of justice and home affairs, you believe you will be able to implement the European arrest warrant before the date set, as planned by this House and the Council? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased that EU leaders will finally address the case for legal migration, although we have to be clear that numbers or quotas must be set at national level and not by Brussels.
The Council continues to focus mainly on keeping people out of Fortress Europe.
We still have no agreement on integrating legal immigrants, or on core aspects of a common asylum system; no agreement on making racism illegal in criminal law, and no agreement on fighting human trafficking through protection of victims and encouraging them to be witnesses.
Finally, I hope leaders will rectify their shameful failure so far to act jointly to secure release or a fair trial in a civil court for the 25 Europeans in Guantanamo Bay.
I hope that will change at the summit. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Brussels European Council should, in line with the Italian proposal, examine the idea of a programme of major works to stimulate growth.
In principle, we are in favour of these projects, which should focus not only on transport but also on the environment, telecommunications and research and development, as set out in the Franco-German initiative.
First of all, of course, there will be delays in implementing the projects, but this is not the key issue.
The third factor that is pushing us towards a situation of zero growth are the rigidities of monetary union, which admittedly provides some advantages, such as eliminating national currency fluctuations, but which also has disadvantages, such as eliminating a decentralised and flexible form of monetary management only to replace it with a centralised and uniform system.
Even in the context of the current system, we should at least try to conduct a more active currency policy that punishes our economy less.
In any event, Mr President, unless these three serious obstacles to growth are removed, major works will not stimulate growth and, even worse, will put us in debt for no good reason. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the forthcoming European Council will be yet another step towards a Constitutional Treaty.
It would be much better – as many are aware – to explain to the citizens that the object of the exercise is to guarantee the same level of legal protection for every EU citizen throughout the European Union, and that this is particularly achieved by including the Charter in the Treaty.
This fact cannot be altered and on this score, nothing should be overlooked.
Needless to say, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats very much hopes that the structural reforms themselves will be assessed on the basis of a wide European outlook, taking into consideration the interests of all and the need for clarity for the sake of the citizens.
Certain things are going extremely well, for example the police missions in Bosnia Herzegovina and in Macedonia, or the military action under the leadership of one of our Member States in Congo.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The propaganda-driven support for economic recovery for the Brussels summit is confined to means used a thousand times before: neo-Keynesian methods and ‘New Deal’ type mini programmes which are now proven to be unable to bring about positive results for the workers and which increase exploitation, unemployment and poverty.
These measures merely safeguard contracts for the large companies and support the concentration of capital, especially when accompanied by measures to cut back the workers' employment and social rights.
Immigration and respect for human rights are also in the line of fire.
I would like to speak now about the interinstitutional agreement on ‘Better Law-Making’.
We must, however, fully admit to defeat in one area: we did not succeed in getting the right of call-back from the Commission –&#160;the right to suspend the use of a voluntary agreement if we do not approve of it.
The Commission’s natural concern was of course to improve this situation, a concern which the Council and Parliament also share.
At the same time, however, we in the Committee on Legal Affairs realised that, in order for the Commission's proposals to come to fruition, it would be necessary to provide a constitutional framework suited to this issue.
We raised this within the first points of the report, and then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which had decided to produce a series of reports after debating the issue with the Committee on Legal Affairs, realised the importance of the issue in terms of Parliament’s institutional role and, on a very sound basis, accepted the report.
I believe that the result of this exercise – during which the two different committees of Parliament, Legal Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, have dealt with the issue – has been positive.
This report for which I am rapporteur was approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs before the interinstitutional agreement had been reached.
Since the agreement has now been reached – and I believe that to a large extent our objectives have been achieved – I believe that the best option is for the report to be returned to the Committee on Legal Affairs so that we can, taking account of the actions included in the interinstitutional agreement, move forward on that basis.
Because we are too happy to talk about civil society and then, when we talk about civil society here in the European Parliament and the European Union, we invite representatives from certain organisations, which somebody or other tells us are representative.
The electoral process provides civil society with a formal means of expression, and the result of that electoral process is the legislative bodies, and it is they who have to adapt the general regulations.
I therefore have the impression that the interinstitutional agreement has placed certain restrictions, but we in this Parliament must continue to insist on the need, on the one hand, to improve the quality of Community legislation and, on the other, not to throw the baby out with the bathwater and not to give up the progress made in our Europe through the development of the liberal and democratic State, which ensures that decisions are made by legislative bodies elected by popular will. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament debate and vote this week represent an important phase in the final chapter of negotiations between Parliament, the Council and the Commission, which has resulted in the interinstitutional agreement on ‘Better Law-Making’.
The group of European correspondents undertook major preparatory work.
The agreement seeks, as set down in paragraph 1, ‘to improve the quality of law-making by means of a series of initiatives and procedures’, which are detailed in the agreement itself.
We are renewing the commitment to improving the quality of legislation and to establishing procedures for pre-legislative consultation and impact assessment.
Finally, we are renewing our commitment to simplify and reduce the volume of legislation.
Mr&#160;President, tomorrow, the European Parliament is going to vote on adopting the interinstitutional agreement ‘Better Law-Making’ and the Commission will formalise its approval in subsequent days.
The Commission welcomes the fact that the three institutions have concluded an interinstitutional agreement on ‘better law-making’.
This agreement clearly and broadly commits the three institutions to improving their working methodologies and the quality of law-making by means of a range of initiatives and procedures that it sets out.
Consequently, the interinstitutional agreement establishes a solid base for improving the culture of clarity and coherence in drawing up legislative texts and for improving the programming and transparency of the legislative process, whilst respecting the powers and procedures laid down in the Treaties, and the broad principles of democratic legitimacy, subsidiarity and proportionality and legal security.
Next, the agreement is well-balanced: it makes frequent references to the Commission’s own commitments but also notes the commitments of Parliament and the Council concerning improving the quality of regulations.
In particular, it sets out provisions that complement the proposals contained in the action plan for the programming and transparency of legislative work.
The agreement also establishes a definition of a stable framework for using so-called alternative instruments, or , which are co-regulation and self-regulation.
The agreement will allow these instruments to be used and will prevent the multitude of problems encountered in the past when examining this type of measure on a case-by-case basis.
The objectives set down in the mandate concerned adequate guarantees regarding Parliament’s rights as a legislative authority, complete transparency during the legislative procedure and the choice of innovative solutions conducive to more effective and responsible law-making.
Furthermore, although we used the Treaty as a reference&#160;–&#160;our reference was, of course, the Treaty&#160;–&#160;the agreement is in line with the draft Constitutional Treaty that was adopted by the Convention and which is being debated in the IGC.
As regards transparency, there is confirmation of the importance of informing the public about the progress of legislative work, as the Convention recognised to some extent; the choice of form for legislative acts, which the Convention also includes in the proportionality principle, while the monopoly of the right of initiative conferred on the Commission&#160;–&#160;I want to make this clear to Parliament&#160;–&#160;cannot give it exclusive responsibility for the choice of form for a legislative act.
Legislation must improve and become more transparent, and that is a task for the Commission, Parliament and Member States alike.
I believe that the interinstitutional agreement concluded in June is a sign that the Commission, Parliament and the Council are aware of this responsibility.
Better legislation is essential for an internal market that functions at its best.
It is therefore very gratifying that in 2002, the Commission published a whole series of documents that examine the possibilities of better legislation, but it is important that both the Council and Parliament should remain actively involved in achieving it.
Improvements in legislation call for very concrete measures, and so I regret the somewhat vague wording in which the Commission has postulated its policy to improve European legislation.
If the European Union does not want to be constantly faced with the need for improving its legislation, it is important for Community law to be given a thorough overhaul from here on in, to ensure that qualitatively sound legislation is introduced.
It is, however, important for this impact assessment to be carried out by an independent body.
As rapporteur for the European impact assessment, I will also certainly opt for an approach that tends towards an independent assessment.
Apart from carefully examining alternatives for European legislation, it is also important for the implementation of legislation and national legislation by the Member States to be carried out more effectively and monitored closely.
I unreservedly endorse this course of action. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the desire of each and every party to defend its own position means that it is not an easy matter for Parliament, the Council and the Commission to set about rearranging their relationship.
It is relatively easy if this surrender is coupled with a call-back-position, that is, with the right of recall should it become apparent that the implementing or secondary legislation does not reflect the objectives and intentions of the legislator, that is, of Parliament.
We must, however, bear in mind that we do not possess the expert knowledge that some institutions or groups have, and such expertise needs to be used – by which I mean not only the giving of advice, but also having the opportunity to co-determine implementing legislation on the basis of laws passed by this House.
The Commission and the Council took it in turns to put up a great deal of resistance to Parliament’s demands in this area, especially where the call-back position is concerned, but we got our way in the end.
No agreement is perfect.
As Monica Frassoni said, there is a bit of 'blah blah'; there are some slightly vacuous passages, but there are also some incredibly important procedural advances.
I should like to emphasise two aspects where I think we need to look for follow-up as soon as possible.
I urge both Parliament and our colleagues in the Council to make sure that the deadline of achieving the process of simplification is indeed met within the six months specified here.
I hope that there will be some sense of urgency over the next few months to achieve real, practical progress on the back of the agreement, and especially on these two important objectives of simplification and impact assessments. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to pay a compliment to the four speakers before me in the debate who took part in the negotiations on this interinstitutional agreement and particularly to commend, as Nick Clegg did, Monica Frassoni's report and its explanatory statement to the House.
What legislation has actually brought about remains controversial for years after it has been passed.
We do not even always agree on the juridical impact, far less the economic impact of legislation.
A week or so ago, we had a huge argument about the Copyright Directive because people were not sure, not about the cost, but what it would actually mean in its implications before the courts of law.
The most that good legislators can do is diminish legal uncertainty and we should approach our task with due modesty in that regard.
That brings me back to the point about subsidiarity which matters to us all greatly.
Some of these documents constitute a sort of undertaking on the part of the Commission in respect of its own work, and that is laudable.
I do not think that will amount to very much; worse still, by signing up to this agreement only a few days after the ceremonial opening of the IGC, which will also deal with this topic, and without being constrained to do so, we in this House are binding ourselves in chains and, indeed, renouncing the full use of the parliamentary prerogatives that it has taken two laborious decades to secure for ourselves.
Today, the eighth day of October, sees this House, by means of the Medina Ortega report, making a second attempt at stating its position on a Commission communication on simplified and improved regulation dating back to December 2001, since which date, three summit meetings of Heads of State or Government have given their attention to the issue without Parliament having been in a position to respond and thereby make its influence felt.
That, too, would help the quality of European legislation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Medina Ortega.
In the White Paper on ‘European governance’, the Commission has tabled a large number of proposals for better governance, of which improvements in the legislative process formed an important part.
The Commission has meanwhile tabled various proposals in this framework, including the programme for consolidation, codification and simplification of legislation, which will reduce the volume of legislation by no fewer than 35&#160;000 pages.
The Commission made an unfortunate start, but later decided on an agreement with Parliament and the Council, which culminated in the interinstitutional agreement.
If, however, the results are not satisfactory, Parliament can intervene and claim, and indeed exercise, its right as co-legislator.
In my view, the Commission and the Council have been far too slow to concede this, and they are still showing far too little generosity.
After all, there is no real democracy without Parliament.
We also have to look at whether it is really necessary at European level in all cases.
We must also take into account the situation in each Member State.
I congratulate him on all the work that he has done but his motion has, of course, been superseded by the interinstitutional agreement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I largely support the reports before us on better regulation and the interinstitutional agreement, and indeed their objectives: to secure a reliable, up-to-date and user-friendly body of law to benefit all our citizens, workers and businesses.
The Single Market is one of our great success stories, but the sheer volume of legislation spawned by the Single Market to ensure harmonisation of Member State procedures is daunting.
Yes, the legal status is intact, but the text is not user-friendly.
Our addiction to acronyms has spawned a new language: Eurospeak.
In short, our texts need urgent detoxification from this addiction.
Impact assessment is a particular area of current interest for my country, Ireland.
Our specific interest is in developing a means of competitiveness-proofing for EU legislative measures, to ensure that the EU strategy is one that stimulates economic growth in order to meet the Lisbon 2010 objectives.
For 2003, the Commission identified 44 proposals for so-called extended impact assessment.
The expected legislative proposals on chemicals not included in the 44 originally identified, but assessed now in response to political and other pressure, will be the first real, extensive impact assessment carried out on a draft proposal.
His proposals cover all stages of law-making, from the preparatory work for legislation, the drafting procedures and how the content is worded, to the stage in which legislation is applied by the Member States.
The first is of a purely political nature and concerns the permanent clash between the bureaucracy of each administrative mechanism and, consequently, between the corresponding mechanism of the European Commission, which considers that efficiency is a technical matter, thus undermining the principle of democratic legitimacy, which is the only principle which can lend credibility to any legislative text.
If, therefore, we want real reform in law-making, the Commission will need to take suitable initiatives and to set an example which will give absolute priority to democratic legitimacy and to safeguarding the balance between the institutions.
If it at least respected democratic legitimacy, it should be consulting Parliament on why it is not taking account of these proposals. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as colleagues have already commented this evening, these are very important reports because lawmaking is arguably the most important part of government and it defines, in many ways, the fundamental character of any system of governance.
I have been in and out of this Parliament now for almost 15 years, and throughout that period there have been reports about the subject matter that we are discussing this evening.
But I am sure that there is much more political interest in, and debate about, this subject now than there was in my earlier days.
All procedures for government, whether administration or legislation, must be underpinned by the ballot box.
Finally, of course, there is a need for clarity.
I think the truthful answer is that ‘sometimes we do’, when in fact the answer should be ‘always’.
We should begin by putting our own house in order. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there are many aspects to this debate: better drafting, wider consultation and so on, and we are making progress on a number of these.
Those who are accountable to the population as a whole, rather than to certain sectoral interests, should take that decision in the first place.
This interinstitutional agreement does not contain an enormous amount, but it does contain recognition that to co-regulate you first need authorisation from the legislative authority.
That is a very important principle and is something we have achieved in this interinstitutional agreement.
I should just like to add a word about interinstitutional agreements in general.
It is one of the first things we should return to once we have settled the issue, hopefully soon, of adopting our new European Constitution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I also welcome the fact that we have now reached the point with this inter-institutional agreement that we can begin to make good on our commitment to deliver better and simpler legislation.
If we get it right, good clear simple legislation could mean fewer infringement cases in the European Court of Justice, it could also result in laws which are easier to enforce in our Member States.
Yes, regulatory impact assessments may be a technical tool, but they are a vital tool in both involving more stake-holders and providing for checks and balances on the executive, improving both the quality of debate in this House and our ability to call the executive to account.
For that reason this Parliament and its elected politicians will always be an essential part of the legislative process.
I also agree that callback is an essential part of that right of scrutiny.
We should give our support to the better legislation agenda but Parliament will need more resources and powers to be able to respond to and evaluate impact assessments and use these regulatory procedures to call Commission and Council to account.
The better regulation agenda will require a change of culture, power and responsibility in all our institutions.
During this debate, exactly as was the case during the negotiations, we encountered a certain inflexibility on the need to ensure that, where alternative methods to legislation are concerned, there should be a legislator and, for the European Parliament, in particular, the possibility of evaluating how they work and if necessary, of rejecting them.
Mr&#160;President, I would like to speak briefly about the issue of impact assessment.
I repeat: impact assessment remains an issue that this interinstitutional agreement has not succeeded in closing, and I think that we must be aware of this act responsibly for the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on a point of order, I should just like to say that the procedure whereby the rapporteur comes back again and replies at the end of the debate is an excellent innovation.
Thank you very much, Mr Corbett.
The joint debate is closed.
In recent months, a turning point was reached with the constitutional Convention, which gave space policy a specific role, thus representing a legal base for Community programmes and consolidating the strategy begun with the extraordinary success of the Galileo programme.
The space assetis crucial to the concentration of professional expertise, research and technology, which characterise the development of the knowledge-based economy.
It is a resource that cannot be wasted and the Commission and the European Space Agency Council have shown that they are fully aware of this.
This framework agreement confirms the unique role of the ESA in organising research and technological and industrial development.
This role must be specified in a European space programme that redefines the responsibilities of the Commission in the face of public demand and new initiatives that call for political representativeness and a specific institutional competence.
Giving Europe a role as leader on the international stage, involving all the EU countries is not incompatible with the firm belief that international cooperation is necessary: cooperation, in the first instance, with the United States&#160;–&#160;thinking here of the International Space station&#160;–&#160;but also with other countries, including Russia, Japan and China itself.
We must, however, be aware that the quality of international agreements&#160;–&#160;in particular those relating to space&#160;–&#160;depends on the quality of scientific, industrial and also financial support.
The quality of human resources and basic research, however, warrants greater attention.
This is why we believe that the next framework programme for research should dedicate more funding to the space sector, guaranteeing a quota in this field for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are becoming an indispensable support for new innovative enterprises.
This guideline can help to implement the industrial and technological asset.
The consultation on the Green Paper provided the opportunity for a very open debate on the future of space exploration in Europe and to examine many contributions from all sectors.
On this basis, we are now committed to preparing the White Paper on the medium and long-term objectives for European Space policy, as Parliament asked of the Commission in January 2002.
The first is that Europe needs a high-level space policy that is independent and ongoing.
The second point is the acknowledgement that our space industry is structurally vulnerable.
Lastly, it is crucial that we take a closer interest in the space telecommunications sector in order to increase demand and to maintain skills in our industry.
My third and last point concerns the European Union’s new responsibilities in space-related matters.
By the same token, a space policy must be a horizontal Union policy, which serves other policies too.
It should cover not only the civilian domain but also aspects of security and defence.
Thanks to new technologies, it provides new opportunities.
It provides jobs for our engineers and prospects for the future.
Europe has achieved these results firstly through Galileo, which has given us the opportunity to create the first European mixed investment company, in other words, a joint company that will support an industrial and technological project.
I personally hope that relations between the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Union improve.
We need the ESA and its skills, but we also need the Union and its political support if we are going to be able to speak with a single voice in the first division.
I am also committed to developing a culture of programmes and the capacity to launch sectoral European programmes through the other Commission services.
I offer my best wishes for success and continuity for what we have managed to achieve together in the five years of our mandate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the publication of the Commission Green Paper on European space policy in conjunction with the European Space Agency (ESA).
In my view, this Green Paper demonstrates an awareness of the importance for Europe of developing the space sector in industrial, strategic and also political terms.
Last May, we held a debate on the future of this sector, in light of a serious crisis related to fierce world competition and to funding problems.
The Green Paper, the Bodrato report and the newly announced White Paper contain practical proposals that could ultimately help us to overcome this crisis and finally add some real ambition to an independent European space policy.
I should like to address two issues.
All well and good, but I am convinced that priority should be given to the use of space for peaceful purposes: the needs are enormous, whether we are talking about the environment or about risk management.
Europe must not fall in line with the US model, which gives priority to research and development in the military sphere above any potential civilian applications.
Lastly, one crucial aspect of an ambitious European space policy concerns funding.
This is a prerequisite for an independent, dynamic European space policy that uses cutting-edge technology and which creates high-quality jobs. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, European space policy is becoming the spearhead of European policy as a whole, due to the hopes it engenders for cutting-edge research, for the new technologies, for the economy and for development.
It must be realistic; in other words, it must make sense in the context of US and Russian space policy and act as a driving force for the European Union.
This is why we are proposing Galileo, which will be a purely civilian organisation, as opposed to the USA’s GPS system or the Russian Glonass, which are under military control.
A joint organisation must be set up at European level and the European Space Agency (ESA) must be more a tool of this integrated policy than an intergovernmental body.
Work in the space sector must form part of the context of the European research area and the bulk of resources allocated to this field should be shared by the Union’s Member States.
All players involved in space policy and in particular the European Parliament which supports our space policy must sit down at the same table.
This orientation is also clear from the European Commission's Green Paper and from the STAR 21 report and from the meeting organised by the Greek Presidency in Athens on 8 and 9 May on the subject of ‘Security and Defence Aspects of Space’.
The involvement of the European Union in the further militarisation of space is a severe blow for peace because it brings it to the same level of responsibilities as the United States in the military competition race.
I therefore totally support the decisions which have been taken by the European Council in Lisbon in this respect, the comments and proposals of the Commission since 1999 and the parallel decisions of the intergovernmental European Space Agency.
I also support the proposal in Article 50 which the Convention has produced in order to provide a legal basis for Community actions.
As in other sectors, Europe must have the necessary ambition and impetus, reflected in its budgets, to be able to play a leading role on the international stage.
It must have independent access to space and develop suitable technologies.
It is vital that our continent should also be able to develop and produce new technology.
European innovations and different components cannot be left out of the market in any possible competitive situation because of trade and other barriers.
In fact it is important that Europe also integrates at the level of the space issue and is able to function properly as seen from space.
I may well not have had much to say in favour of Friedrich von Hayek in my books and other works, but what I see in this place from one day to another is such a waste of money – not yours, not Parliament’s, but the taxpayer’s – that I have come to think of the whole thing as a hypocritical farce.
First of all, in response to some speakers, the relationship between the European Space Agency and the European Union is clearly set out in a cooperation agreement and we have an excellent relationship, in a climate of mutual respect.
I shall simply add that the debate over whether the technology used should be in military or civilian hands is sometimes a rather theoretical one, because if you look at the transmission of information, for example, it applies to many sectors.
What we need to do today is to reach a good agreement in the International Conference to ensure that space policy is truly a Union policy and, of course, to find the appropriate funding, without which we will never achieve our aims. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner Busquin.
The debate is closed.
The reform is the result of a review process that was launched in 2000, which is the basis for the new draft regulation that I hope the Council will soon adopt so that it can come into force in time for the forthcoming enlargement.
In recent months, in addition to the preparation of these documents, many measures relating to the staff and internal organisation of the Competition Directorate General have been adopted, in particular the introduction of a new figure&#160;–&#160;the chief competition economist&#160;–&#160;and processes such as the peerreviewpanel to ensure greater clarity of control during analysis.
The proposal for a new merger regulation is characterised by three main elements: firstly, clarification of the substantive test for evaluating the possible effects of concentrations on competition; secondly, jurisdictional issues, where we are proposing to rationalise the system of referrals between the Commission and Member States; thirdly and lastly, numerous procedural changes are being proposed to give slightly more flexibility in timeframes for inspections and for notification of a concentration, as well as aligning the powers of fact-finding provided for in the merger regulation with those that are set down in Regulation No 1/2003, which, as you know, relates to the application of Articles&#160;81 and 82 of the Treaty. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, over the past three years, the Commission has been involved in a thorough review of the Community antitrust system.
As you mentioned, Commissioner, the proposal for a new regulation on concentrations between undertakings before us today represents one of the key phases of that review process.
The three vital points both in the Commission proposal and also in Parliament's report, points that you drew attention to yourself, Commissioner, are the substantive test, jurisdiction and procedural issues.
As regards jurisdiction, that is to say the field of application of the regulation and thus the allocation of cases between the different national authorities, there is a need to solve the problem of multiple notifications, which will become even more serious for the businesses affected following enlargement.
These multiple applications are totally at odds with the principle of the one-stop shop to which we have all referred.
In its proposal, the Commission has abandoned both the possibility of changing thresholds, presumably because of the complications involved, and the ‘3+’ principle, although contained in the Green Paper, which was advocated by Parliament in the Berenguer Fuster report.
This positive view was confirmed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which defined an automatic test also allowing for referral to the Commission during the pre-notification stage, when a case has to be notified to several national authorities.
Parliament accordingly wishes to reiterate the line already taken in the debate on the Green Paper.
I, personally, suggested a rewording, but the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs decided at this stage to call on the Commission to leave things as they are, thus backing the value of the test and of its effectiveness, as demonstrated up to now.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has proposed toning down some of the provisions in the proposal for a regulation, given that we believe that, on grounds of proportionality, it is absolutely unnecessary to bring the Commission’s powers of investigation for mergers into line with the powers envisaged for cartels, since the areas concerned are completely different.
We believe that this is not the right place to insert a clause of this kind, because there is a danger that it would conflict with the overall logic of the regulation, which is to guarantee a competitive single market precisely in order to increase employment.
In the first instance, Parliament welcomed the Green Paper’s proposals for a ‘one-stop-shop’ system in Brussels for multiple filings in more than two Member States.
The coordination and harmonisation of national procedures is very much what is wanted and we would therefore urge the Commissioner to make every effort to promote this idea.
A single procedure in Brussels will not only cost less but will also significantly improve legal certainty for businesses and ensure that the procedure can be completed more quickly.
Concentrations that comply with the requirements of a simplified procedure ought not, in principle, to be referred to the Member States.
One of the purposes of this revision of the regulation is to increase legal certainty.
We accordingly consider the Commission’s proposal for increasing its investigative resources under this Regulation excessive, particularly if viewed in the context of the enormous fines that the Commission can impose for non-compliance with the provisions of the Regulation.
This particularly applies to the right to silence for company lawyers, and also indeed for other employees whom the Commission may question.
This could also speed up the procedure and improve the quality of the administration of justice. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the rapporteur has just pointed out, Community competition law has undergone substantial reform over recent years, which is now culminating in the reform of Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 on conciliations.
In the field of conciliations, it is the case that the reform of Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 has not been as radical a change as the one which has taken place, for example, in the field of anti-competitive behaviour.
This is firstly due to the fact that Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 was a good regulation, it was a good legislative text, which has allowed us to carry out a suitable Community competition policy in the field of conciliations.
Subsequently, the Commission produced a Green Paper containing proposals for reform, which were also partial and specific, which deserved the clear support of this Parliament.
The work you do, Mr Monti, is of the greatest importance if the market economy is to operate, if Europe is to be able to grow, if there is to be a business-oriented EU and if all European consumers are to be given a choice in respect of low prices and high quality.
It is of necessity that the concentration rules are now being reviewed and modernised.
The market is changing.
The Commission should be able to have a more dynamic and long-term perspective when the market basis is assessed in the case of concentrations and be able to see the common market in a global context.
The employees’ viewpoints are, of course, important, but concentrations of that type should, in our view, not be regulated in this context. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission’s advocacy of the maintenance of free competition in Europe is of course something to be welcomed.
We are of course in favour of rigorous measures being taken to deal with cartel agreements, but control measures, whether at national or European level, must not be designed in such a way that free competition is hampered by red tape.
With this in mind, we will endorse the amendments that our fellow-Members have tabled. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it will not have escaped the attention of those involved in this issue that those members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs who are also members of the Group of the Party of European Socialists have voted against the final report.
The situation was such, however, that the amendments tabled by our group had simply not received any support from other groups.
I sincerely hope that other groups, particularly the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which has taken our side on issues of this kind in the past, are prepared to re-consider this carefully, so that we can vote in favour of this report wholeheartedly and without any reservations.
Consequently, with regard to the regulation on concentrations, we would particularly draw your attention to two aspects.
First of all, the assessment should consider aspects other than competition in the narrow sense of the word.
In our amendment, we explicitly call for considerations with regard to the contribution that concentrations can make to improved production and marketing systems, to international competitiveness, to consumer interests and to the creation of jobs and the employment situation in general.
The second aspect is about a serious and fully-fledged consultation of employee representatives within the procedures.
Particularly Amendments Nos 40 and 41 concern this topic.
In current practice, employee councils or trade union representatives are heard only at their explicit request, that is, if they have at their disposal information that tells them that a concentration or merger is in progress.
We have done this because our group stands for the social market economy, because we back the Lisbon objectives, and because social cohesion is not incompatible with economic success; on the contrary, it is contingent upon it.
Most of those who have spoken before me have pointed out that this refusal does not go against people’s interests, but that we must find a place for our concerns where the matter in hand requires it, and where the most good can result.
This makes for clarity, legal certainty and is the simplest way of doing things in view of EU enlargement.
A second point is the definition of the market.
What needs to be made clear is that mergers are legal, whereas cartels are not.
This is an extremely sensitive area, in which legal certainty should be enhanced and administrative procedures made more flexible.
The transparency and monitoring of decisions, and appeals against them, should also be improved, as should the active, dynamic and appropriate participation of all the parties involved in undertakings.
A very clear distinction must be drawn between, on the one hand, the whole business of investigating violations of competition rules following allegedly irregular behaviour and, on the other, the normal process of monitoring a merger, which should, as a matter of principle, be accepted as legal and in accordance with the rules governing the market.
In Community legislation and its underlying political philosophy, competition is not an end in itself.
It should not be forgotten, furthermore, that the majority of those consulted in business circles expressed reservations and concerns about the adoption of new legislation, especially in view of the fact that the legislation on abuse of the dominant position has worked well up to now.
The efforts made by the Commission to table this proposal for a regulation, following the December&#160;2001 Green Paper, are much to be commended, and deserve Parliament’s support overall.
It is crucial, however, that some amendments be introduced to improve the text of this report, emphasising legal certainty and, above all, highlighting the role which workers in the merging undertakings should play.
The workers should oversee the whole process and provide not only relevant information but also guarantees that the operation in question will be an economic and social success. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is surprising that company mergers, which are one response to the challenge of globalisation, are often dealt with under the heading of ‘cartel law’, which has nothing to do with them.
Cooperation comes about quite legally, with the objective of maximising opportunities on global markets; it is an important element in the free and dynamic internal market.
In its Green Paper, the Commission has already stressed that they are always to fall within its own remit where mergers have been reported to the authorities in at least three Member States, and that is also the line that I take.
I am convinced that this is where costly and time-consuming procedures in the Member States can at last be done away with.
That is something we must formulate elsewhere; that must indeed be clearly articulated, and I believe that we can find a common mind if we do this somewhere else.
I hope that it will be possible for one or other amendment to be withdrawn; perhaps we will manage to get a broad consensus by tomorrow lunchtime.
If this is true, opting to keep the dominant position test as it is would mean failing to take advantage of an opportunity to make it clear that the substantive test for assessing concentrations will be applied without fail to all concentrations harmful to consumers' interests.
The greatest legal certainty you can have here is a genuinely effective instrument for controlling concentrations.
As regards partial referrals to Member States, I agree that we should keep these to a minimum, but I also believe that it would not be advisable totally to rule out such referrals, because they may be appropriate in some cases.
I now wish to turn to a subject that has attracted a lot of attention and concern.
The Commission has also proposed that its own powers of enforcement, as laid down in the regulation on concentrations, should, to a large extent, be brought in line with the new regulation, Regulation 1/2003.
Nevertheless, our priority objective is to ensure that these powers are sufficiently effective to allow the Commission to discharge its duties and to protect consumers against the risk of harm from anticompetitive concentrations, and I believe that the powers we have proposed are necessary to this end.
Of course, you may well argue that, as control of concentrations is an area different from other aspects of competition, less draconian powers are needed here than those required, for instance, to combat cartels.
I believe&#160;- like those dissenting voices -&#160;that we are all working within the social market economy, and we consider workers' rights to be of the utmost importance.
In fact, as has already been mentioned, appropriate instruments exist at Community level, but we believe there is a need for appropriate allocation of the various instruments to a range of different objectives.
The regulation on concentrations is principally concerned with the components of the social market economy, and we do not, therefore, believe that it should be cluttered with measures to stimulate or safeguard employment: there are other instruments for that.
The debate is closed.
In order to prevent any repetition of these disasters, or at least to ensure that if they do occur the consequences are not so tragic, at the beginning of the year the Commission submitted a proposal for a directive seeking to establish minimum safety requirements for tunnels.
The Commission also received encouragement for its approach through several resolutions adopted by your Parliament, specifically following the fire in the Gothard tunnel in October 2001.
The Commission proposal targets all road tunnels over 500 metres long that form part of the trans-European network, totalling around 500 tunnels.
Tunnels in the trans-European network are actually used by drivers of all nationalities and it appears that the consequences of fires can be considerably diminished if persons finding themselves in such situations have access to standard safety equipment and to homogenous information on the best attitude to adopt in order to protect themselves.
Some people have been surprised at the highly technical nature of the proposal but if you compare the measures envisaged for the technical regulations set by international courts, or at national level, you will realise that these are necessary in order to cover the essential aspects.
The task facing the engineers responsible for the safety of these tunnels in the Member States is a long one and the directive must be adopted as soon as possible.
As a result of the meetings that we have already held with some of you, I know that we can count on you to reach rapid agreement with the Council on this dossier. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although tunnels are among the safest parts of the European road network, accidents in tunnels often result in grave consequences, among which the psychological effects are not to be ignored.
The three major accidents in the Tauern, Mont Blanc and St Gotthard tunnels – to which the Commissioner has already referred – made the peculiar characteristics of accidents in tunnels tragically apparent.
Some time elapsed before the Commission, at the beginning of this year, submitted its proposal for a directive on minimum requirements for the safety of tunnels in the trans-European road network.
Our amendments were an attempt at making it even better, and I believe that we succeeded in doing so by dint of cooperation with the Commission and good dialogue with the Council, which, working in parallel with us, agreed a few days ago on the content of its Common Position, which it is – or so I hear – keen to complete tomorrow.
Our text focuses on one partial aspect of the issue of tunnel safety.
In essence, we are demanding high standards in building work and elsewhere, but it is equally important to make improvements to the way in which people use tunnels.
We must act as quickly as possible to incorporate into our system the candidate countries and the others that intend to join us, and, as there is more to Europe than the EU, countries such as Switzerland, Norway and others as well.
The Commission has held out to us the prospect of certain things being done in response to these points.
The candidate countries and those Europeans who are not yet in the EU have already, this time round, participated very actively in our work, and we hope they will continue to do so.
I hope that we have come to the right conclusion as to what they need, and we have made constructive efforts to ensure that they too, in the event of a calamity, can expect a minimum standard of safety.
I would like to thank the many people who have helped to achieve this outcome in which we all share: the Commission and its staff; the various partners in dialogue from the Member States, but also – even though I am repeating myself – from Switzerland and Norway, and the Members of all the groups in this House and their assistants.
This means that this aspect of finance is one that we should particularly take into account.
We have always attached great importance to the clear demarcation of responsibilities, so that there should be no lack of clarity about who is responsible for what in matters affecting the safety of tunnels.
Just as is stated in the motion, I take the view that the Member States will of course have to comply by doing this not only with reference to the trans-European networks, but also, and to an adequate degree, in the other tunnels and in the other parts of the road network.
So let me reiterate my belief that this is a good report with a realistic approach, and say that I agree with the Commissioner that we and the Council need to come to a shared solution without delay.
Once again, then, many thanks to the rapporteur for the work he has done. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, having seen a wide variety of serious accidents in tunnels in the European Union’s road network, discussion of how to guarantee a high standard of safety throws up, yet again, the crucial question as to the extent to which the European Union should lay down detailed and specific technical rules, or, to put it another way, how much leeway there has to be for various ways of adapting to change.
I therefore find it regrettable that the text no longer contains the Commission’s proposal on the standardised application of harmonised norms to working methods in conformity assessment bodies.
Modern technology notwithstanding, what is ultimately crucial in road transport, as in so many other areas of society, is the human factor.
And this time I am not referring to the Frenchor the German, but to the death and mutilation of people with a value as human beings that cannot be expressed in money terms.
Annually, more than 200&#160;000 people are scarred for life through injury and/or a handicap.
We therefore hope that the Commission is willing to recognise this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, mountain ridges are a hindrance to crossing traffic, and so, tunnels offer the only solution to provide the shortest possible connecting route.
Meanwhile, engineering is increasingly enabling us to build tunnels under cities, under protected areas of outstanding natural beauty and under sea straits.
On the basis of experience gathered to date, I have reached the conclusion that tunnels without separate lanes and without parallel escape tunnels are unsuitable for use by large numbers of cars and by heavy goods traffic.
Tunnels offer more options for rail traffic, but here too, escape routes are required.
Moreover, it is likely that the two extremely long tunnels that will run under Switzerland, and the Brenner base tunnel, designed to run from Germany to Italy under Austria, will be suitable only for freight traffic.
When the Commission launched its draft directive on the improvement of safety in tunnels, I was, on the one hand, glad that it is fundamentally in accordance with the third action programme to improve road safety, which we had welcomed, but I was also concerned and disturbed by the prospect of an enormous increase in bureaucracy and of the high costs resulting from it, which, it appeared, would devolve upon the Member States.
I am pleased to note, first of all, that there is a broad degree of consensus between Parliament, the Commission and the Council on the measures to be adopted.
Parliament has been given a set of highly technical amendments which are intended, if I am not mistaken, to bring the Commission’s proposal more into line with the text that has resulted from the work of the Council, which has itself held many meetings with experts on this issue.
The Commission does not wish to accept these amendments, because moving away from terminology which now appears to be almost universally accepted would not help us to achieve our goal of clarification.
Some amendments relate to aspects not covered by the directive but which are important for tunnel safety or for implementing measures.
I am thinking in particular of the amendments relating to driver training or to the financing of tunnel repairs.
These somewhat stark figures are not an accurate reflection of the real situation, which is that between the Commission and Parliament, and I think I can say between Parliament and the Council, there is greater agreement than the figures suggest on the essential aspects of the dossier.
We are dealing with a very complete and very positive report, enriched with the amendments approved in our Committee on Fisheries.
It describes all the enormous possibilities offered by international fisheries agreements, both for the European Union and for third countries.
There remain in this Parliament certain recalcitrant Members who are dubious about the international fisheries agreements, but fortunately there are far fewer of them than in 1994 when we discussed this issue in this Parliament.
The vast majority recognise their enormous advantages.
Recently, 24 developing countries, who met in Galicia on 16 and 17 September at the , approved the conclusions of the fourth Conference of Fisheries Ministers, all of them calling for the maintenance and increase of international fisheries agreements as instruments for trade and development cooperation.
The development cooperation in the field of fisheries represented by international fisheries agreements is obvious; and that, through them, the European Union is achieving responsible fishing in these third-country fishing grounds and the development of a sustainable fisheries sector, is also obvious.
Namibia, for example, is today a world fishing power, a zealous guardian of its fisheries resources and sustainable fishing, and this is all the result of European investments.
Neither should we forget the essential commercial aspect of these fisheries agreements for the European Union, where they generate work for our fleets, jobs for our fishermen and work for our processing industries.
In summary, the international fisheries agreements are an essential mechanism for the European Union and for the third countries, since both parties benefit mutually from them, as the Cunha report points out in a crystal clear fashion.
This agreement, therefore, is intended to put a greater emphasis than in the past on the environment, but without neglecting economic and social objectives.
Mr Hudghton seems unusually exercised by my role as Fisheries Committee Chairman these days.
The high quality of the work undertaken by Mr Cunha has indeed been reflected in this report on an integrated framework for fisheries partnership agreements with third countries.
Many people are currently expressing anxiety over international fisheries agreements entered into between the EU and these third countries.
Documentary film-makers and indeed some international NGOs have beaten a path to countries like Senegal and Mauritania in West Africa, intent on exposing the ravages of greedy European fishermen.
Against a background of collapsing fish stocks in EU waters, due, allegedly, to massive over-fishing, these critics claim that Europe is now hell-bent on exporting its problems to these developing nations.
When Spain joined the EU it brought with it a distant water fleet of heavy trawlers, which had plied the world's oceans for centuries.
To meet this surging demand, the EU has two alternatives.
Nevertheless, while contracts entered into with third countries have seen EU trawlers from Spain, Portugal, France, Ireland and, to a lesser extent Greece and the UK, deployed around the globe from the Southern Oceans to the North Pole, there has been rising concern at the exploitative nature of some of these agreements.
But, and this is equally as important, we also want a significant contribution to be devoted to conservation and development objectives, with monitoring and surveillance high on the list.
I would also like to emphasise how much he will be missed in this Parliament, in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, and in the Committee on Fisheries.
I would say that the European Union has developed a very interesting type of diplomacy in the field of fisheries.
This fleet must not be considered as belonging to Portugal, or to Spain, or to France: rather, it should be understood to be a European Union fleet, since the Commission is our only spokesperson, our only representative in these international relationships.
I hope that distant water fishing in the European Union will continue to develop along the three axes of the conservation of resources, support for the poorest communities and also equal treatment for those working in the fishing industry.
Our debate takes place in a context where, first, some stocks in certain northern waters are in crisis and others are endangered.
In addition, a report published last week by the International Food Policy Research Institute indicates that, if China is included, developing countries now account for more than 70% of the production of fish for food including both wild fisheries and aquaculture.
The consequences are that the EU is dependent on imports of fish and that many EU fishers pursue their activities in other waters.
The ELDR accepts, therefore, that there is merit in negotiating fisheries partnership agreements with third countries, rather than leaving matters to bilateral arrangements which may lack consistency both between each other and in supporting the requirements of sustainable development.
We do, however, have very strong views about the nature of any agreements made by the EU.
Second, the agreement should be both responsible and transparent in budgetary terms, so we have amendments calling for renewal of agreements to be dependent on evidence that past monies have been spent as intended.
On paragraph 11, whilst it may be right to forecast an increase in the number of agreements reached, we cannot be certain of this and would prefer by oral amendment to replace the words 'the increase' with 'any increase'.
Third, the agreement should promote sustainability.
We are pleased with the extent to which the report makes reference to the principles involved and hope to see these built on where the details of any future agreement are concerned, notably by introducing specific provisions for protecting the environment.
I would urge the House to support both this report and their amendments to it.
With regard to this report, I would like to say that international fisheries agreements are undoubtedly a highly important aspect of the common fisheries policy, since they ensure that fishing activity is maintained in many regions of the European Union, and provide direct employment for 30&#160;000 people.
They help reduce the Community trade deficit in fish products and account for more than 20% of all Community catches.
Studies indicate that every euro invested in these fishing agreements generates economic activity to the value of three&#160;euros, meaning that the benefits clearly outweigh the costs.
While coherence is certainly needed between the common fisheries policy and development policy, it should not be forgotten that these agreements are essentially commercial in nature: though they should take the development angle into account, the funding for these fishing agreements should come from the fisheries sector, while funding for development policies should derive from elsewhere in the Community budget – from increased amounts for cooperation and development, to be more precise.
When we talk about the countries that are benefiting, I know that when I first came to this Parliament, Ireland was not one of these countries.
Irrespective of what countries are benefiting from within the European Union, what we need to look at is how the developing countries are actually benefiting.
I do not see anything yet to prove that the European Union has not merely a sustainable approach to fisheries agreements, but also an approach that takes into account the concerns of the developing countries.
This will distinguish the development aspect from the other aspects of the fisheries agreements.
The world changed in 1976, as the empty ports of Hull and Grimsby can testify.
I have seen Kenya, where private enterprises have been causing problems, but in my view two wrongs do not make a right.
But this is not the case with Commissioner Fischler, who continues to turn a blind eye. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the Cunha report rightly emphasises the enormous economic importance, for both the Member States of the Union and the partner States, of the twenty-one international fisheries agreements concluded by the Community.
Whereas the European Union faces a large shortfall in the increasing amount of fish it consumes and has to import almost half of that amount, the fisheries agreements alone provide one-fifth of total Community catches, worth around EUR&#160;one&#160;billion and constitutes a particularly significant source of employment both for European countries that have a tradition of distant fishing and for their overseas partners.
The economic balance-sheet is also broadly positive for the partner countries.
As rapporteur for the EU-Mauritius agreement, I have been able to assess the scale of the mutual economic interests involved in this key sector that those working in the field in Europe have developed with a number of ACP partners in the Indian Ocean and with Latin American partners.
When the Commission talks about the coherence that is needed between the various Community policies, it must ensure in particular coherence between the common fisheries policy and trade policy.
It is in order to compensate for this loss that the EU has concluded fisheries agreements with third states.
Today, we have twenty-one of these agreements with countries in both the North and the South.
That is why I very much welcome the Commission’s new joint approach.
I also believe that it needs to be brought to life, and it is more compatible with our objective of sustainable fisheries.
A recent WWF report highlighting the problems in Angola makes for interesting reading.
On the one hand, the EU is providing emergency aid to Angola but, on the other, has signed a fishing agreement which would take from Angolan waters vital fish stocks which go to some of the poorest people in the world.
According to UNEP, the United Nations Environment Programme, which focused on Mauritania, Argentina and Senegal, all countries have noticed a depletion in their stocks after signing third-party fishing agreements.
In Mauritania, catches of octopus have halved in the past four years and in Senegal two thirds of the country's export earnings are reliant on fish exported to Europe.
However, I regret that, for example, in Angola where 35% of the EUR 15.5 million paid is supposed to go towards small-scale fisheries projects, it is actually unclear if this money will go to this aim or not.
This amendment would make new fishing agreements dependent upon the presentation of satisfactory evidence that monies paid under the previous agreements for targeted measures have been spent as intended.
Third-party fishing agreements play an important role in providing the EU with fish.
In particular, I would also like to express my gratitude for the great deal of support that our report has received.
That is particularly the case when a sensible and effective conservation policy is needed, but also when seeking to ensure that any decisions taken are based upon current best knowledge.
That is what we intend to ensure in future.
All this, of course, can only work if these states are wholeheartedly interested and collaborate fully, but we are discovering in practice that such is increasingly the case, and so I can see our concluding of these agreements developing a very positive way.
I can only say that these principles must be put to the test in concrete negotiations, when Parliament, too, will have the opportunity to ascertain whether or not every one of these newly-concluded agreements comes up to scratch. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.(1)
