President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I think that we are now moving into a really important issue.
As many of you are following very closely in your constituencies, the automobile industry is a key factor for the whole of the European economy.
In all these areas this Parliament has given us its consistent support.
The industry has reported that 8% fewer cars were sold in the Union last year than in the previous year, to compare 2008 with 2007.
The situation is likely to remain as bad - if it does not get worse - in 2009, hitting not just the automotive constructors, but also the whole automotive industry supply chain.
Ministers met my friend, Günter Verheugen, the Commissioner and the Vice-President of the Commission, on 16 January to discuss the specific problems facing the automobile industry.
Member States agree that public support for the automotive industry needs to be both targeted and coordinated.
This will be headed by my colleague Martin Říman and Vice-President of the Commission, Günter Verheugen.
It is something that can be put off, however, as, of course, a European car can always last another year.
The European motor industry employs 12 million people directly and indirectly.
That represents 6% of all the jobs in the European Union.
In 2007, we produced 19.6 million motor vehicles in Europe.
There are currently stockpiles of 2 million unsold vehicles.
The motor industry is the industry in Europe that invests the highest proportion of its turnover in research and development.
The economic crisis has hit this industry in every sector at the same time.
Here, new orders in the whole of the European Union have fallen to practically zero, and that when there is a production capacity of almost 40 000 commercial vehicles a month.
Twenty per cent, however, is still a very high figure, and when you compare this with the numbers of people employed by this industry, we are talking about more than 400 000 jobs.
This point I will make quite clearly: there is no guarantee that, at the end of this year, we will still have all the production sites in Europe that we have at the moment.
There is not even a guarantee that, by the end of the year, all the European manufacturers will still be in the market.
The pressure of international competition in the motor industry is very strong.
I would like to mention just one example in this regard.
It is patently obvious that aid to the European subsidiaries of US companies can only be authorised where it is clear that the aid in question serves exclusively to retain European jobs.
Not all the Member States are going to use the system of paying scrapping premiums, but those that do will be following the agreed principles, which is to say that these measures must not discriminate against other manufacturers.
One thing that is possible, however - and I would welcome this warmly - is for such scrapping premiums to be linked to environmental targets.
Scrapping premiums, as you can imagine, are not possible in this sector.
What is needed most of all here is to give small- and medium-sized enterprises in this sector access to finance.
Allow me, finally, to say that the most important outcome of the discussions with the Member States was that we all pledged to prevent the occurrence of any race to protectionism in Europe.
Such a race to protectionism would result in the financially weaker Member States losing out and would very seriously damage the provision of social solidarity in Europe.
That is a question that must be directed at the United States, in particular.
The European motor industry is not staring into an abyss.
It is in a difficult situation, but it is our firm belief that the industry is capable and strong enough to get through this difficult situation and continue, in future, to play an important role in creating and securing jobs and prosperity in Europe.
The car industry, as you said, employs 12 million people in the European Union and is equal to 10% of GDP.
I have to say that for the most part I share their concern and agree with the realistic approach they propose.
I have seen one estimate saying that 2 million jobs could potentially be lost in the course of the year in the car industry as a whole, the majority of which would be in the parts sector.
I therefore very much welcome the recovery plan decided on by the Commission, which has sought to use all the tools at its disposal, although we know that they are limited, and we understand the reasons why.
In my view, the appalling drop in the latest registrations - in some Member States this month they are down 33%, or 20%, and so on - shows that the crisis is not in a technologically obsolete sector, nor is it an internal crisis caused by managerial errors in this or that company.
However, while this consumption support measure is implemented, which is a medium-term measure, I think we have to say that we need immediate credit support to recommence production, pay for materials and retain employees despite the fall in orders and demand.
The United States are taking action, as are some European countries, and I hope that my country will move on from generic proposals to practical measures, but I hope for stronger European action both within and outside the recovery plan, because I believe, and have explained to the Commissioner at length, that the fate of the great European firms is our shared fate.
Large European manufacturers should not encounter competition within the common market in the form of various kinds of State aid or special terms, but should see a response from a strong, decisive and coordinated Europe, since the fortune of the European car market will be measured by our ability to face global competition together.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Thank you, Mr President.
I have no doubt that the financial crisis will give rise to significant corrections in the future structure of the car market.
They are also, on principle, important for the European economy as a whole, in order to reduce the risk that an increase in oil prices once the crisis has been surmounted, partly as a result of renewed car buying, might stand in the way of a joint economic recovery process.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, in my opinion, the first priority should be to link the crisis management of the economic crisis with the global challenge that is the climate crisis.
However, this is only possible in conjunction with a coordinated plan involving energy policy.
Assistance is available, but we have to decide - and I say this quite frankly to the Commissioner - whether it should be coordinated at European level or otherwise, as certain larger states seem to be proposing.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund should also be adapted in this light; likewise the European Social Fund - why not? - which currently speaks of creating new jobs but should also seek to avoid redundancies.
However, as you know, Protocol 27 and Article 63 of the Treaty of Lisbon strictly prohibit any customs protection of the European market.
Of course, we live in the real world, however, and following a 5% fall in vehicle production over the last year, the industry is expecting a further 15% fall in 2009.
That means that the financial crisis, clearly, has a particularly heavy impact on the automotive sector, as it affects both the manufacturers themselves and their customers.
However, both manufacturers and suppliers do need further credit in order to finance their businesses and so, too, do customers if they are to finance the purchase of cars.
So far in this crisis, the banks have been backed to the tune of billions of euro in order to save the entire system.
These losses - especially in the light of the 2 million stockpiled vehicles - are based on significant falls in the book value of leasing vehicles which then lead to problems in this respect, too.
Until just a few months ago, General Motors, Daimler and co were focussing on gas-guzzlers, whilst their marketing made out that SUVs were the new city cars.
Several factors have contributed to this crisis, but one factor in particular is the failure to make the necessary switch in production at an early enough stage.
The lack of flexibility and new thinking has, after all, contributed to the crisis we are seeing in the car industry and in other industries.
One of the statistics from our summit - from Professor David Bailey in our Birmingham Business School - estimates that 300 000 consumers in the United Kingdom were refused a car credit application over the last six months.
As regards some of the things we have talked about - and I agree entirely with what Stephen Hughes said about Nissan, and he knows them very well - we can do things at a national and a European level to help the industry through this restructuring.
In many cases, the companies in question are SMEs in the supply industry that need credit now in order to survive.
The time has come to finally make the switch right across the European Union and transform car tax permanently into a system in which those consumers who opt for environmentally-friendly cars will be rewarded for doing so. - (NL) The car industry is a very important sector for employment in Belgium.
In and around Opel Antwerp Belgium, there are 2 700 direct jobs on the line today.
The decisions are taken in Detroit, and all Opel sites are faced with overproduction.
To ensure that this aid is effective, though, I would urge the European Commission today, in the form of Commissioner Verheugen and your colleague Mrs Kroes, to sit round the table with the authorities and the sites involved to secure a maximum number of jobs at European level and to guarantee a coordinated approach at European level before 17 February, the day on which the decision will be made in Detroit.
Therefore, I would like to put forward four proposals.
Firstly, the creation of a European Support Fund for Employees in the Automotive Sector that exceeds the Modernisation Fund because it is important to retain employees in companies during these crucial periods by supporting their level of remuneration in the event of short-time working and by supporting their training within the company.
Premiums for scrapping vehicles can be effective.
They, in turn, have been affected by the crisis as a result of the domino effect because they are at the mercy of the customers' production stoppages.
Three-quarters of these companies are small and usually work for a single customer.
Bearing in mind the large number of employees within these companies, I feel that car component and tyre manufacturers must be included in any future solution for providing economic support during this crisis. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner Verheugen has just set out for us how dramatic the figures are and what the current situation is in the automotive market.
With regard to what my colleague, Mrs De Vits, was talking about, which is to say General Motors, I would like to ask the Commission whether it is taking precautions for the eventuality of the collapse of the parent company.
In such an event, would the Commission act harmoniously to find a European solution for General Motors' subsidiaries? - (PL) Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to three issues in this debate.
As a result of this decision, around 50 000 jobs are now being cut in the Polish ship-building sector itself, while over ten thousand jobs will be lost in related industries in the future. - (SK) Commissioner Verheugen, the European Commission must take concrete steps towards getting the automobile industry back on its feet.
Mr Vondra, I expect from the Council that the Member States during the European Council's meeting in March will approve a scrapping scheme that will directly boost the purchasing power of consumers intending to buy new cars.
I firmly believe that if the EU wants to be the largest exporter of cars and at the same time wants to be a global leader in the fight against climate change then it must help its car industry, which is the largest private investor in research and development.
However, in this case, 12 Members requested the floor.
The Council appreciates all your contributions to the debate and will try to do its best to play its part, with the Commission, in fixing as many problems as we can in the automotive industry.
So I think we are in agreement that those measures must be realistically sustainable financially, as well as in other respects.
There have been environmentally-friendly cars in the past, and low-consumption models too - think of Mercedes' Smart car, which led to billions in losses for the company.
Our position would not look too good in such a situation.
I can only lend my complete support to what Mr Groote had to say about vehicle tax.
There cannot be a European regulation forcing every Member State to take part in this.
Finally, I would like to emphasise, once again, what many of you have said, which is that we must think beyond the motor industry when we discuss the current crisis.
Cars in Malta are subject to a heavy registration tax, on which the Government was also collecting VAT.
This is such a serious blunder that if it happened in any other member state of the EU, the Government would have been forced to resign.
However, 2008 was a difficult year for this industry, where during the first half of the year, car sales dropped due to a rise in the price of fuel, while during the second half, sales fell by 19.3% as a result of the financial crisis.
Between 2009 and 2015 the car sector must implement new standards for polluting emissions, fuel economy and so on, while all of this is adding billions of euros to the industry's costs.
The figures given above are also relevant because the car industry provides for the incomes of more than 12 million families.
It is therefore clear that the health of this sector of the European economy is vital to the EU economy as a whole.
The European Union's economy is reputed to be the greatest economic power in the world.
It seems right that our efforts to create a European Economic Recovery Plan, should be primarily guided by the principles of the free market and its competitiveness.
The economic crisis has had a powerful impact on the car industry, a sector which makes a significant contribution to the GDP of many European states.
The serious situation at European level requires the immediate introduction of suitable measures.
I am not referring, in this instance, to protectionist measures, which distort the market, but to measures which offer equal opportunities to European industry and allow employees in this industry to keep their jobs.
The economic recovery plan allows this to happen because it proposes new credit regulations in the European banking system which facilitate access to credit.
