Member of the Commission. - One month ago, Parliament adopted a resolution on the proposal for a directive on the procurement of defence and security equipment.
However, I would like to underline my concern, which is also related both to the crisis situation in which we are living today, as we all know, and to the fact that we are in election year, which may, to a great extent, contribute to some cooling of interest and loss of enthusiasm in this area.
Trading relations between the EU and Israel will continue.
Subject: Internet safety programme Decision No 1351/2008/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 established a multiannual Community programme on protecting children using the Internet and other communications technologies.
The 2009 work programme is currently subject to Commission inter-service consultation.
The 2009 work programme is the first of five, and so will be a building block for the activities to be carried out over the whole lifetime of the programme.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Unfortunately, I do not have any detailed information about the contact points, but I know in general that this is decided in the Member States and depends very much on the structure of the government and governance structures.
It is, of course, possible to provide you with the necessary details if you are interested. (DE) The dangers represented by the Internet are constantly changing and we have seen the Internet move from version 1.0 to version 2.0, so to speak.
His advice has been valuable and I must say that also the lines of command in the matter of property policy at the Commission are very clear.
In accordance with this policy, the Commission published in June 2008 a call for information addressed to the market in order to have better knowledge of the existing possibilities for the development of a site external to the European area from 2014.
Until this decision is taken, the Commission will not express a view on any of the offers which have been examined.
My adviser has scrutinised this matter from all angles, and I am absolutely sure that he has no conflict of interest and especially, of course, that he has no role in this kind of decision making. (DE) I would like to query something again.
We have buildings in Beaulieu, we have buildings on the Rue de Genève and some others also.
Vice-President of the Commission. - I am directly responsible for OLAF, and OLAF is dealing, as I mentioned, with counterfeit coins.
Vice-President of the Commission. - I could, of course, speak for at least one hour on these issues.
So, firstly, I can assure you that we are dealing very seriously with these issues and the situation is improving.
These samples amount to EUR 63 million.
All these samples have been corrected, recovered and the necessary documents provided.
Under these circumstances, and without abandoning the medium-term objective of building an association between the Andean Community and the European Union, the Commission proposed to the Council a new two-track negotiating format which was approved by the Council on 19 January.
First, and with the objective of preserving and strengthening relations between the European Union and the Andean Community, the Commission proposes to enrich and update the 2003 political dialogue and cooperation agreement.
I have spent these last few days in the Republic of Bolivia and I have followed events on a daily basis.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Yes, I can definitely say that this is the Commission's approach.
So the Commission has taken good note of the fact that, in its judgment of 4 December 2008, the Court of First Instance annulled the Council Decision of 15 July 2008 that listed the People's Mujahedin Organisation of Iran (PMOI) as a terrorist organisation.
Indeed, when I tabled this question on 17 December 2008, I was not to know the good news that would come from the Foreign Ministers' meeting on 26 December.
Finally, has the Commission had any reaction - official or otherwise - from the present Iranian regime since the European Foreign Ministers' decision on 26 January 2009?
The Court of Justice said that the decision did not meet the substantive and procedural requirements, and the Council followed that decision.
This was discussed in GAERC, and the Council decided not to keep this organisation on the new terrorist list adopted on 26 January 2009.
There must be reasons for any new approach, but it can be revised if there are new reasons.
The Commission is closely following this debate.
Vice-President of the Commission. - These are both quite specific questions.
However, I think that, at least today, nobody can say exactly what promises or preoccupations there will be in this particular area.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the renewed social agenda adopted in July 2008, the Commission undertook to attend to the needs of an ageing population.
In each case, in all Commission documents, we are working in the awareness that with an ageing population, increasing numbers of people will be engaged in caring for a dependent.
As the author is not present, Question 51 lapses.
The open method of coordination in the field of social protection and social inclusion has helped to strengthen the fight against poverty and social exclusion, and has supported the efforts of the Member States.
I shall mention three examples: there are now 22 Member States that have set themselves a target figure for combating child poverty; citizens and companies are now very closely involved in the national strategies to combat poverty; and social inclusion strategies have been incorporated into many policy areas: employment, education and vocational training, health and housing.
The European plan to stimulate growth and employment, which was submitted to the heads of states and governments at the European Summit in December 2008, aims to address the impact of the financial and economic crisis and also to strengthen the reforms already under way within the scope of the Lisbon strategy for growth and employment.
The Commission has also undertaken to regularly monitor the social impact of the financial and economic crisis in the Member States and the measures taken at national level.
The Commission will also continue to cooperate with the Member States to ensure effective implementation of its recommendations adopted in October 2008 on the active inclusion of people who are furthest removed from the job market.
Generally, the Commission, in its proposals before Parliament, is facilitating or - if the proposals are approved - wants to facilitate the use of the European Social Fund and the Globalisation Fund.
