Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have the floor.
President-in-Office. - (SL) I should stress that, as far as the Council is concerned, it makes no difference whether we answer these questions together or separately.
In fact Parliament voted for it just three weeks ago and Commissioner Margot Wallström, in this very House, said that we need a consolidated text as soon as possible.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Firstly, the supplementary question from Mrs Harkin.
The first possible date would be 1 January 2009.
However, on the substantive issue, I am glad you are preparing; you are not predicting the outcome, but you are hoping, as I am, that it will be positive and that the Lisbon Treaty will be ratified.
And, in the next 50 years, who knows what we will need to vote on?
President-in-Office. - (SL) I would like to draw Mrs Panayotopoulos' attention to the Council's latest initiative relating to her question.
On 14 February this year, the Council adopted a series of key reports on further implementation of the European Youth Pact and forwarded them to the spring session of the European Council, which will start tomorrow.
The Slovenian Presidency has devoted special attention to the problems and challenges of youth employment.
I would like to mention the international conference entitled 'Jobs for Youth - Prosperity for All', which will take place next month in Slovenia during this Presidency. (EL) Mr President, the text of the European Youth Pact also provides for measures for combining professional and family life.
President-in-Office. - (SL) The practical realisation will rest with each Member State.
President-in-Office. - (SL) The Council is aware of the European Parliament initiative calling for a pan-European alliance for the elimination of homelessness by 2015.
The 2007 joint report on social security and social inclusion dealt with the challenge posed by homelessness in relation to measures for active inclusion.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Thank you for this information, but please understand that as a representative of the Council I am not at liberty to comment on the data or the situation for an individual Member State.
President-in-Office. - (SL) In June 2007 the Commission published a green paper on a future common European asylum system.
Mr Pirker, I cannot add to what I said earlier in the introduction.
President-in-Office. - (SL) I am going to attempt to answer some points raised in the supplementary questions.
In its decisions of 18 February the Council confirmed its resolve to give total and effective support to the European perspective in the Western Balkans.
The Slovenian Presidency has given the Western Balkans special attention.
The Presidency still believes that what is needed is a long-term solution to the status of Kosovo within the general agenda of a European future for the Western Balkans.
I would like to remind you again of the Council's decisions of 18 February, when it confirmed its commitment to total and effective support for a European future for the Western Balkans.
Negotiations with most of the Western Balkan countries on a gradual liberalisation of the visa requirements have already started under the Slovenian Presidency. (SK) The way Europe sees the Balkan countries has a significant impact on, and great importance for, stability both in the Balkans and on a European and global scale.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Thank you for these supplementary questions.
Kosovo is part of the region which had already been given a European perspective in Thessaloniki in 2003, and that has not changed.
