Court of Auditors' annual report for 1999 The next item is the presentation of the Court of Auditor' s annual report for 1999.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Members of the Court of Auditors I would like to thank you all for inviting me to present the 23rd Annual Report of the Court.
As in previous years, this presentation marks the start of the discharge procedure for the 1999 financial year.
The report follows the format used for the past two years with chapters covering revenue in each of the expenditure areas under the headings of the Financial Perspective.
The different chapters of the annual report address four main concerns.
Firstly, there is an analysis of the budgetary implementation of the budgetary management practices within the specific financial headings.
You will find that the Court has paid more attention to the follow-up to previous observations, in response to the demands expressed by this Parliament.
Thirdly, in response to the request of the European Parliament, the Court has expanded its audit work on the Statement of Assurance and now provides additional information per area of expenditure in each chapter.
Since the last discharge procedure the Court has adopted 24 special reports containing the results of audits which focus on a wide range of specific areas in which the Community's financial management can be improved.
Although these reports are not part of today's presentation, they are to be taken into account in the discharge procedure.
The gross national product-based resources represent 43% of this total.
The value added tax-based resources represent 36% and the traditional own resources are 15% of the total.
In the customs area the Court reports on the complexity and variable application of the outward processing procedure.
This is 96% and 92% respectively of the available appropriations for the year.
The utilisation rates of the Financial Perspective estimates are 91% and 83% respectively.
It is, therefore, difficult to draw general conclusions on this budgetary implementation.
However, the Court makes the following major points.
As reported in chapter 2 of this annual report, the high rate of expenditure, which is almost 99% of final appropriations, is explained in part by numerous transfers that reflect in fact the poor quality of the initial estimates, of both revenue and expenditure.
The Court invites both the Commission and the Member States to improve the quality of these estimates.
There were also numerous transfers of appropriations for the Structural Funds that significantly altered the structure of the 1999 budget.
In this area there was also an under-utilisation of commitment and payment appropriations and a concentration of transactions at the end of the year.
In areas where the Community programmes are implemented directly by the Commission, such as internal policy and external actions, implementation rates are somewhat lower.
The Court repeats, consequently, its comments of previous years on the negative effects of this, for instance poor and hasty decisions, heavy workload creating a risk of errors and so on.
Finally, in both the chapters on internal policies and external actions, the Court finds that the Commission's own comments on budgetary implementation are inadequate.
The Court welcomes, therefore, the clear commitment of the Commission's answer to improve fundamentally its budgetary and accounting report.
The Court has produced an annual Statement of Assurance since the 1994 budgetary year.
The majority of these errors occurred in areas of the Community budget that are managed by the authorities in the Member States.
The most frequent examples here are problems in implementing regulatory control checks insufficiently, detailed supporting documentation and failure to comply with tender procedures.
Not only is it the duty of the Court to report on the errors found in its audits but we should also ensure that our audit findings are interpreted and used correctly.
Therefore, let me remind Members of Parliament that the high incidence of errors found by the Court cannot, and must not, be seen as an indication of the level of fraud affecting the Community budget.
Most of the payment errors found by the Court are due to problems of inadequate financial management and control and it is only in the case of a small proportion of the errors found that further reinvestigation by OLAF or the Member States' authorities is justified.
As the Court already pointed out in its previous report, a medium-term improvement requires a combination of general and specific measures, including the clarification and improvement of control procedures, particularly at the level of Member States.
In this context, the Court welcomes the Commission's plan for improving financial management presented to the discharge authority in the context of the discharge for 1998.
This reflection leads me to some comments on the reform of the Commission.
For instance, the proposals of the Commission to increase the responsibility of authorising officers for the execution of commitments and payments while bringing to an end the centralised system of prior approval of transactions by the financial controller, together with the creation of an independent internal audit service, is in line with the key requirement for improved financial management that we lay down in our Opinion No 4/97.
At sector level, the Commission has now announced reform programmes which can be seen as a response to concerns expressed by the Court over a number of years, for example, the proposals for improving the management of external aid programmes.
This initiative is clearly based on an analysis very similar to that of the Court - most comprehensively set out in its Annual Report for 1997.
In some cases, such as the reforms of the measures for the subsidised use of skimmed milk and skimmed milk powder or the programme of assistance to South Africa, as well as in certain areas of traditional own resources, the Commission has taken actions to remedy specific weaknesses reported upon by the Court.
For instance, for the milk quota system, the Court found that the overall situation had not significantly changed and that, contrary to the Court's view, increased quotas have been established, thereby giving rise to greater surpluses in the milk market and a heavy financial burden for public storage and disposal measures.
In the case of the import of dairy products at preferential rates, the Court considers that nothing has been done so far to avoid breaches of regulations similar to those reported in the Court's Special Report No 4/98.
In the area of the social dialogue, the Commission has not undertaken all the measures it had agreed to carry out in its replies to the Court's observations.
In its 1996 annual report, the Court identified a number of weaknesses in the management of an export promotion fund for Nicaragua and Honduras.
In its discharge recommendation published in 1998 the Council called on the Commission to review its relations with the regional bank and recover amounts unduly credited by this bank.
In its 2001 programme, the Court has therefore planned an overall audit covering all budgetary areas of the Commission's recovery procedures.
Member States are responsible for the day-to-day management of the bulk of Community funds in the areas of the common agricultural policy and the Structural Funds.
This annual report and the special reports published since the last discharge continue to draw attention to serious and persistent weaknesses in Member States' management and control systems.
For instance, an important category of errors reported in the Statement of Assurance are irregular deductions by the central or local administrations on agricultural subsidies.
The commitment undertaken by the Commission should be seen as a constructive reply to this challenge: a reply that deserves our support.
The new President of the Italian Court of Auditors, the Corte dei Conti, who was officially installed in office a few weeks ago, said in his instalment address: "I am convinced that the relations between the Court of Auditors and Parliament would be significantly improved if Parliament strengthened the instruments that are designed to ensure that Parliament systematically takes results of audits carried out by the Court of Auditors into consideration".
Yesterday I had the opportunity - for which I thank the President - to discuss with the President of Parliament involving all the committees of this Parliament in the business of financial and management control.
Last, but not least, we will also need the cooperation of the Member States.
Being responsible for the day-to-day management of the bulk of Community funds, the Member States need to strengthen their financial controls and to take up fully their responsibilities in the fight against fraud against the Community budget.
Only when all actors - the Commission, Parliament, the Council, the European Court of Auditors and the Member States - commit themselves to the reform and cooperate in this achievement will the confidence of the European taxpayer in Community financing be able to be restored.
Madam President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Members of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission is heading in the right direction, but it still has a long way to go.
The Court of Auditors is giving the Commission's reform a fair wind.
That is to be welcomed and I would like to thank you most sincerely, Mr Karlsson, and also the Members of the Court of Auditors and its officials, for supporting the reform of the Commission in your report.
In its annual report for 1999, the Court concluded that too many errors had occurred in implementing the budget to give a positive statement of assurance.
The Court has once again stressed that over 80% of European budget resources are administered by the Member States.
But I find it really amazing that some Member States can refuse to accept financial responsibility, for example, in the area of customs duties, when their own authorities have made mistakes which mean that customs duties cannot be entered and they then refuse to make good this shortfall in revenue, so that instead all the Member States have to accept joint responsibility for this revenue shortfall.
The Court of Auditors also makes it clear in its report that the errors identified by the Court do not amount to fraud, nor are they detrimental to the budget.
The recently published annual report on protecting the financial interests of the Community and the annual report on fraud prevention demonstrate this.
New measures have been taken to prevent fraud in procurement, which is a very important area.
Cooperation agreements with third countries and, in particular, with candidate countries have been framed more strictly so that anti-fraud measures do not stop at the EU's borders.
Mr President of the Court of Auditors, I for one warmly welcome the fact that you have announced your intention to prepare a special report, to carry out a special audit on this.
The Court of Auditors is increasingly making use of special reports.
I would like to welcome this trend on behalf of the Commission, as these special reports are very topical and can therefore also be valuable in making up-to-the-minute decisions.
By way of a specific example, I have in mind the special report that has just been published on the market organisation for sugar.
That applied to food aid for Russia, for example, which the Court audited in one report.
The Commission has presented a paper on this to the Committee on Budgets.
However, not only are we heading in the right direction, we have also already covered a significant part of the ground.
It has also set up an internal audit service which will monitor the control systems in individual departments as well as creating a central financial service which all the Directorates-General can use, for instance when they are drawing up contracts or when they need help in implementing the provisions of the Financial Regulation.
But we are now coming to a difficult stretch, where we need the support of the European Parliament, the Council and also the Court of Auditors.
This applies, for example, to the amendment of the disciplinary procedure, but it also applies in particular to the revision of the Financial Regulation.
Mr President, you said that much of the reform is still only on paper.
For example, the Court of Auditors has committed itself to giving its opinion on the proposal for the revision of the Financial Regulation as quickly as possible, and I am very grateful for that.
But I would particularly like to thank you, Mr Karlsson, as President of the Court of Auditors, for the way you have kept the Members of the Committee on Budgetary Control informed this time round.
The reality as described in the annual report is, however, more sobering.
Parliament expressly drew attention to these serious accounting errors during the discharge procedures for 1996, 1997 and 1998.
The number of errors occurring is too great for a guarantee of this kind to be given.
Madam President, I should first of all like to thank the Court of Auditors for its annual report.
The amount of fixed assets has been set EUR 240 million too low.
Liabilities have been set EUR 2.6 billion too low, and unredeemed liabilities have been set EUR 1.2 billion too high.
The former Commission, which was primarily responsible for the 1999 Budget, was indeed given the sack.
I believe this is a good way of doing that, and I also think that the report should be much more practical.
I could also do with seeing the Court of Auditors produce its report earlier in the year.
It would give us more time for the discharge procedure in Parliament, and we should not need to defer the discharge every single year.
As rapporteur, I now have only 14 days in which to ask the Commission questions, and in 14 days it has to supply me with the answers.
It is almost unreasonable to make such demands, so if we could obtain the report much earlier, we could also produce a piece of work of even higher quality.
Reform of the Commission is largely about making the individual Directorates-General responsible, and I should like to ask the Court whether it has plans in future to restructure the annual report so that chapters for the individual Directorates-General are prepared.
In 1995, a convention to protect the EU' s economic interests was adopted.
Madam President, I too would like to thank the chairman of the Court of Auditors for their report, and the Commissioner for their response to it.
I believe that in principle it is a sound procedure.
Madam President, I, along with all my colleagues, wish to welcome this annual report which is presented to us in a spirit of constructiveness.
It is regrettable that it is not possible for the Court of Auditors to give a clean bill of health to the Commission with a positive Statement of Assurance.
This situation has not changed since the first Statement of Assurance was published in respect of the 1994 budgetary year.
Member States are responsible for managing 80% of the expenditure and a range of errors has been found by the Court at Member State level.
We should remind ourselves that the EU resources come directly or indirectly from European citizens.
I am pleased that the Commission has taken steps to improve its management control over Community finances, and systems are being put in place in the Member States.
The Commission must be vigilant in its pursuit of proper management procedures at Member State level.
In conclusion, let us approach our task in a positive and constructive spirit in the best interests of the citizens of the EU.
Madam President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, in 1999, the Netherlands made the highest per capita contribution to EU coffers.
Firstly, the Commission has committed EUR 400 million more than we budgeted for, and secondly, it has modified the original budget and implemented a revised version without Parliament' s approval.
The number of irregularities in the structural funds payments warrants a thorough investigation into the way these funds operate and their effectiveness.
Reforming the Commission is no guarantee that previously recorded irregularities will not arise in the future.
I should be grateful if the Court would issue its opinion on the reform of the Financial Regulation soon.
Right now, Madam President, I should like to stop talking and wait for someone from the Council to come here.
You say that you keep on drawing attention to serious and persistent weaknesses in Member States' control and management systems, and you say that most of the errors occur in the main spending programmes managed by the Member States' administrations.
I believe that we, the members of this Parliament, will be able to point to and lay the blame on our own administrations if they do not meet their commitments, but you have to do us the favour of clearly indicating the States and the programmes.
I am convinced that in order for the Community' s financial interests to be properly defended any management failures must have consequences in the budget and Parliament must be able to deny funds to a Member State for repeated breaches of spending control regulations.
Mr Pomés Ruiz, it is totally unacceptable that the Council' s seat is empty.
Your work is crucial to our job because you are the experts and we then sort out the political problems.
We must not forget that this report refers to the 1999 budget, the year when there was the forced resignation of the Commission, so it is clearly too early to judge yet.
Let us not forget, and I hope the Council once again is listening, that 80% of the money is spent in the Member States.
We want to know where the problems lie, in which Member States, in which areas.
Of course, there are no magic solutions to improving financial control in the Commission.
We have a lot of vested interests to challenge but we will be watching next year's report for concrete evidence that the measures the Commission has put in place since its investiture have had a real impact in stamping out financial mismanagement.
Madam President, the enlargement of the European Union is looming, and the report by the Court of Auditors leaves us in no doubt that there is still a great deal of work to be done in the candidate countries too.
If we are to do all this on the already modest budgets we have at present, how are we to manage when these countries actually become members and start participating in the common agricultural policy and the Structural Funds?
Madam President, it is all very well having one representative from the Council here, but that is not enough, because - as has already been pointed out on several occasions - the majority of serious errors have been committed in the Member States.
The Committee on Budgetary Control can no longer tolerate the impression being created, year in year out, that 'it is a real shambles in Brussels' , when the main culprits are sitting in the capital cities.
I think that if the Court leaves this much room for interpretation in its report, the result will always be critical headlines.
This headline relates to a press conference by Mr Friedmann, and I must ask, Mr Karlsson, why Members of the Court of Auditors are making different statements, first in our Committee on Budgetary Control and then apparently to the press.
I believe that we urgently need clearer criteria for next year's report by the Court of Auditors.
Secondly, various honourable Members have already mentioned the lack of clarity here.
Mrs Rühle and other previous speakers have mentioned percentages.
But you have not included that in your report, and I am sick and tired of hearing, year after year, that the Member States are responsible for 80% and the Commission for only 20%, while the report itself does not point the finger of blame!
Mr President, although the Court cannot provide a positive Statement of Assurance for 1999, the tone of the report on the whole is more positive than it has been in previous years.
I would like to congratulate the Commission, and Commissioner Schreyer in particular, on the Court's observation that many of the changes it has requested are being implemented or are on the way to being implemented.
I would also like to pick on the Council by asking why it is not moving forward on Article 24 of the Financial Regulation.
Parliament moved very quickly to give its opinion and I hope that Council will be able to do the same and adopt its position well before Christmas.
It is too political in the negative sense of the word.
Other Members have already pointed this out.
We need to look at the way the Court works and how its independence from the institutions and the programmes it is meant to audit can be strengthened.
The report is positive about steps that have been taken by Parliament to remedy problems that have been identified by the Court, too positive in my view.
Many of these changes have either not yet been implemented or have been implemented partially.
Finally, Mr Karlsson, while we, as a Parliament, make all these changes, perhaps you could go and help America count its votes!
Perhaps some European Union common sense will help sort out the problem and give George Bush his rightful place in history - its dustbin!
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, this new report from the Court of Auditors which we have just received is of interest to the Committee on Budgetary Control because it makes a number of points concerning the problems of managing the Community budget, while at the same time warning us against the narrow interpretations that could be extracted from the crude exploitation of certain figures.
Let me quickly expand upon three points.
First of all, there is a question of terminology: even though all too often no clear distinction is made between the notions of fraud and irregularity, the Court of Auditors warns us against the temptation to consider irregularities or errors as tantamount to cases of fraud.
But it must be pointed out that the Court of Auditors itself says that cases of fraud are few in number.
For example, there is regional VAT in some Member States.
The third point I would like to make concerns the debate which took place yesterday evening when the Court of Auditors' presented its annual report to the Committee on Budgetary Control.
The Court of Auditors was asked - and a number of speakers have reminded us of this morning - to explicitly name the Member States in which fraud and irregularities have been uncovered.
We are not looking for scapegoats, either in our institutions or in our Member States.
What is more, as the working method applied by the Court of Auditors is based on sampling, we only have a partial view of the situation.
The report from the Court of Auditors highlights, somewhat more so than in the past, the situation regarding the management and control of Community funds by the Member States.
Mr President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Commissioner, over the last two years the Court of Auditors has published six special reports on the subject of the common agricultural policy.
In its special report on subsidies for the disposal of skimmed milk, it highlights a lack of supervisory measures, a level of falsification of milk data and fraudulent use of this data that is unparalleled in any other agricultural sector.
In its report on the disposal of butter, the Court of Auditors noted that 89% of the budget is spent on subsidies to the food industry through procedures of dubious transparency and of even more dubious efficiency in terms of their impact on farmers' incomes.
In both cases, this involves a limited number of countries and a limited number of economic agents, who are the direct beneficiaries of these policies.
In what has been its most important work on the common agricultural policy, the special report on arable crops, the Court concluded that, from 1993 to 1997, the Community budget paid out a sum of more than EUR 13 billion more than could reasonably have been expected.
The Court, therefore, quite rightly concluded that support for farmers should not be provided on the basis of price, production or area, but of support for the net income of farmers or of agricultural work units.
These are excellent, high-quality documents, which are a "drop in the ocean" in a common agricultural policy that still gives special treatment to larger farmers at the expense of the smaller ones and to countries and regions at the heart of Europe at the expense of peripheral countries and regions.
It is a shame that the Court of Auditors' annual report, which is supposedly drawn up to reflect the most relevant aspects of the work undertaken in the course of the year through the special reports, did not include these studies and decided to concentrate on other issues on which it had not undertaken specific studies.
First of all, on the procedure for presenting the annual report to Parliament and the Budgetary Control Committee, I am happy to listen to the assurances from Members of Parliament that the situation this year is more satisfactory than before.
First of all I point out - not only to Mr Blak, rapporteur for this year's discharge, but to Mr Mulder - that we have gradually changed and developed the procedure for drawing up the Statement of Assurance in close collaboration with this Parliament and the Budgetary Control Committee, to meet with the wishes of the Committee by including in the Statement of Assurance the specific observations in the different budget areas.
But I should like to make it abundantly clear that a procedure of this kind has to develop very gradually so that we do not have a complete change in the method of data collation because then the value of this exercise would not meet the requirements we are set under the Treaty.
A Statement of Assurance is a very detailed exercise, including not only specific observations on the different budget areas but also a global appraisal.
Members of the Budgetary Control Committee point out the need for more precision.
You are right that we have to be more precise in our observations.
But a delay of more than two years makes the value of this exercise very limited.
It is very difficult to be more precise when we do not have a clearance system that would give the answers that we ask for, for instance in respect of the Social Fund.
The Court of Auditors also has to change its working methods.
It was quite clear, in this particular case, that the Court of First Instance supported us by saying we not only have the right to mention these names but also a duty to do so.
The intention of the Court of Auditors is not to become a political instrument but to be an objective instrument for your political control here in Parliament and we will continue to work towards this end.
I will come back to that next time when I report and give you the plan for the programme of work for next year when we see each other again.
That is why we should use other methods and adopt the approach that we have agreed on the specific observations field and bring the DAS exercise more in line with the other audits, not only of the Court, but also of the Commission and of the Member States, in the clearance of accounts.
I was also thinking about Florida this morning, Mr van Hulten, and I am thankful that I was not responsible for auditing the election procedure in that specific state.
I must comment, Mr Blak, on what you said.
Thank you very much, Mr Karlsson.
The debate is closed.
Perhaps the quality of the proposal is due in part to the fact that the Commission consulted over 14 consumer organisations and these pointed out the difficulties there had been in implementing the 1992 directive.
And the same has happened with other proposals in the document, which to us seem acceptable.
This report was approved by a large majority in the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment, and I shall therefore stand by the result of the Committee' s vote.
The proposals approved in the Committee on the Environment deal with enhancing transparency and consumer information; ensuring the recall of products even when they are already in the hands of consumers; limiting professional confidentiality to the bare essentials; clarifying the definition of a safe product and a dangerous product; including the monitoring of the safety of product installation and maintenance (because sometimes this installation and maintenance may present a risk to consumer safety); including the precautionary principle, a useful principle little used in the European Union (if it were, we would not have problems such as mad cow disease, to be examined this afternoon, the dioxin issue, or other matters relating to genetically modified products); ensuring a certain harmonisation of surveillance and follow-up programmes (it is important that Member States should maintain some equality in these surveillance and follow-up programmes); and in general arranging for consumers to be given information in the language of the country in which they buy the products.
Mr President, unfortunately we cannot accept some amendments first tabled in the Committee on the Environment and now tabled here, which go against these principles.
The first concerns Amendment No 4.
It proposes removing a paragraph which simply asks producers and distributors to inform the authorities in the Member States immediately if they learn of a dangerous product.
Some amendments, such as Nos 1 and 18, deal with questions that basically concern the United Kingdom, and it must be said that all the groups from the United Kingdom, whether socialist, popular or green, have supported them vehemently and they have been approved in the Committee on the Environment.
They relate to a matter that is very specific to the United Kingdom, that is, charity shops and sales more or less between private individuals.
Mr President, I thank the Commission and the Council for their collaboration in the preparation of this report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the attitude of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market towards this matter is quite different from that of the responsible committee, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
I am therefore deeply grateful to the PPE Group for having adopted these amendments here today and tabling them for further debate here in this Chamber.
My second point is about export bans, which have previously been so highly praised.
In light of recent experience, notably the European Court of Justice ruling on tobacco advertising, I can really only urge this House to heed the recommendations to plenary of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, as the committee responsible for such matters.
For this simple reason we have expressed a different viewpoint, and we can only advise this Chamber, on behalf of a majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, to accept Amendments Nos 38 or 41 in particular, as these relate to a weakening of export bans.
Mr President, in March this year we adopted the directive on cableway installations designed to carry persons.
This demonstrates just how important legislation is here, and directives in areas as sensitive as product safety need to be implemented as soon as possible.
I hope that will happen before 3 May 2002.
The proposal on product safety before us today is a general directive relating in particular to those areas not covered by existing directives.
I believe that this principle is enormously important for consumer protection because it makes it possible to check at any point whether a product complies with standards or not.
In addition, there is the question of what the scope of current standards in Europe is and what the scope of European standards would be.
As various honourable Members have already said, at the very least proof that different safety rules apply in the importing country should be accepted.
In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, under the wise guidance of our rapporteur, we passed a series of amendments which, again, my group would commend en bloc to the House today.
This proposal includes some extremely valuable general principles including the one which the other side of the Chamber appears to find offensive.
That is the principle that we do not export products that we believe are unsafe for our own people in the European Union.
The Commission have begun to take a tentative but welcome step in that direction and perhaps the Commissioner will say more about that when he replies.
The charity shops welcome the general protection of this directive.
Our Amendments Nos 1, 8 and 18 bear on that point.
Incidentally, we support the Commission' s proposals concerning the extension of the directive's scope of application to include services, and also the incorporation of migrated products, even though there is certainly still a lot more that could be done in these areas, which will no doubt fall to us in the future.
Finally, a brief question for the Commission about Article 4, which concerns European standards and the question as to whether they must be disclosed.
Mr President, the proposal under consideration was certainly long-awaited.
On the other hand, it does provide for a ban on exporting products classed as dangerous, which is certainly evidence of the Union's high level of civilisation, but there is no clear indication of whether this ban is consistent with the procedure known as Prior Informative Concert, laid down, in fact, by international conventions.
Mr President, it goes without saying that we need a certain basic level of consumer protection in the European Union.
A Danish or German consumer has different safety requirements to a Dutch or Italian consumer.
Most importantly - and here I am addressing the Council representative - how can any safety directives be effectively implemented if the Council refuses to endorse the directive on safety inspections and controls?
Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur on her work, which addresses the fundamental concerns of consumers' associations, which must be accepted as equal partners in a constructive dialogue.
Recalling products in a situation of risk should not be done as a last resort but must begin as soon as there are reasonable grounds for taking this course of action in the light of recent scientific advances.
Community standardisation must be based on appropriate scientific knowledge and we must therefore foster cooperation between Member States in researching the safety of products in general and of high-risk groups in particular, such as children, the elderly, new youth cultures, new lifestyles and people with a history of illness.
The reliability of product safety and after-sale care represent added value for a "made in Europe" label at a particularly difficult and crucial time.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a directive on general product safety since 1992.
The possibility of having a product's compliance with regulations certified by an external agency would certainly be very helpful in this case and would ensure a clearer and more logical approach.
In other sectors, this directive has been extended to other fields of application.
Lack of confidence in the possibility of ensuring food safety, for example, is spreading like wildfire and, when all is said and done, obscures the Union's positive work in this sector.
In this context, it is therefore important to emphasise the political value of the directive upon which we are about to vote.
The laws on product safety, in particular the safety of those products which have hitherto escaped regulation by the vertical legislation already governing the matter, is being improved, consolidated and made more transparent.
The current Commission proposal is in response to the numerous problems related to the health and safety of consumers which have occurred recently.
I would only say a few words to present the main aspects of this proposal.
The idea behind the directive is simple: that only safe products are placed on the market.
The two key objectives of the general products safety directive are: ensuring a high and consistent level of protection for consumer health and safety throughout Europe and ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market.
We had extensive consultations with stakeholders - as the rapporteur has acknowledged - on implementation of the present directive, which brought to light certain weaknesses which we are now trying to correct.
This also means that when new sectoral legislation is devised it supersedes the corresponding provisions of this directive.
For example, in the foodstuffs area - as you well know - when we have a food authority, the authority itself should provide a notification system which will take over from the general product safety provisions.
The present situation is less than ideal.
It is incredible, for example, that authorities in our Member States are sometimes informed by the US authorities that a certain European product is dangerous.
The notification is compulsory in the United States but not, so far, in the European Union.
Member States will now be required to strengthen the tasks of competent surveillance authorities.
We now also provide for the possibility of opening the system to third countries, in particular to the candidate countries: simplification of procedures for emergency measures at Community level so that we can take rapid action following the advice of a regulatory committee.
Consumers often lack confidence because they do not know what is happening.
Nothing undermines consumer confidence more than a belief that something is going on that they do not know about.
The limitation to this is professional secrecy as defined in Article 287 of the Treaty, except when there are overriding public health reasons.
Many of the proposed amendments of the report are an improvement on the text and can therefore be accepted by the Commission.
The obligations of distributors, which have been a part of the directive since 1992, are formulated in a very generic and flexible way.
This new requirement does not imply any substantial additional responsibility in the case of these kinds of shops.
Charity shops normally receive, as a gift, single used products which they in turn sell to consumers.
However, to meet the concerns raised and in order to further clarify the situation we could consider including in the recital dealing with this article a statement that it may prove impossible to provide the competent authorities with information and documentation on the possible risks and origin of the product in the case of isolated used objects donated by private individuals.
Secondly, Amendment No 3 proposes a deletion of part of the motivation for having clear conditions in the annex of the directive for the duty of business to inform the authorities about dangers.
Thirdly, Amendment No 4 proposes adding, in a preamble, a requirement that Member States draw up factual reports with the cooperation of competent and independent public or private institutions.
Amendments Nos 6 and 29 require the Commission to consider approaches or submit a proposal relating to the safety of services in Amendment No 29 before a specified date.
The Commission is in fact already analysing and considering this issue, but it would go too far against the Commission's right of initiative to introduce this in the directive in such a prescriptive way.
Amendment No 7 proposes certain changes in the references to paragraphs.
The first part is acceptable to the Commission, but it is not common practice in Community legal texts to explain the content of articles referred to, as proposed.
To replace the word "producer" with "supplier", as proposed in Amendment No 11, would create more confusion than clarity, as there is no definition of supplier in the directive.
The definition of producer already covers suppliers whose activities may affect the safety properties of the product.
Amendment No 13 proposes adding a reference to the precautionary principle in the general obligation for producers to place only safe products on the market.
The precautionary principle is a general principle of risk management by the competent authorities and cannot be enforced as such as a direct obligation on producers.
Although the idea of publishing a full text of the European standards in the Official Journal, as proposed in Amendments Nos 14 and 16, is understandable, it would require fundamental changes in the relationship between the Community and the European standardisation organisations, probably implying higher levels of subsidies from the Community budget.
This issue, with implications for most product-related Community legislation, cannot, therefore, be dealt with in the context of the current revision of this directive.
Amendment No 19 proposes harmonisation of Member States' monitoring approaches on the basis of guidelines prepared by the Commission and the consultative committee.
To require Member States to take measures also in cases when business has already taken satisfactory measures to prevent a risk, which would be the consequence of the second part of Amendment No 21, is not acceptable.
Amendment No 23 proposes the introduction in the directive of provisions on compensation in respect of damage.
A requirement that the product safety network should be established within a specified time-frame is proposed in Amendment No 24.
Although the Commission is in favour of quickly establishing a network, this has to be agreed between the Member States.
The first part of Amendment No 27 proposes that only information related to the risks that have been established should be made available to the public.
Finally, Amendment No 28 proposes that the Commission should submit a report on the implementation of the directive every second year instead of every three years.
Allow me to explain first the Commission's position on the amendments to which we cannot agree.
Amendments Nos 30, 32, 42 and the main part of Amendment No 33 propose rewordings of the existing text of the directive which is not subject to revision.
Amendment No 36 proposes that services directly associated with the product should be excluded except when provided by the original producer.
The discussions in Council go in the direction of dealing with the services within the definition of product which is, in fact, acceptable to us.
Amendment No 43 would totally exclude the application of this directive to products regulated by specific legislation.
This is not acceptable, as these directives often lack provisions on market surveillance, notification systems and so on.
A possibility of proving that a product conforms to the requirements through external certification is proposed in Amendment No 37.
Such certification can always be used for providing evidence but cannot, in itself, be regarded as foolproof.
Amendment No 38 proposes limiting the time period for emergency decisions to six months which is, in most cases, not sufficient for adopting permanent measures.
In addition, Amendment No 41 proposes that the export ban should not apply when a product has been banned while carrying out further checks.
This is a period during which there are real dangers of exports taking place.
Amendments Nos 39 and 44 propose that information on dangerous products should only be available to the public once a banning or withdrawal decision has been issued and that exchange of information protected by professional secrecy should not be possible between market surveillance authorities.
As the consumer should also have the right to information about risks not yet firmly established, including in cases when the measure taken is not a ban or withdrawal, this is not acceptable either.
In addition, effective market surveillance cannot be carried out under the proposed limitations regarding confidential information.
Amendment No 40 proposes a deletion of the duty for business to notify the authorities about dangerous products they place on the market.
Having extensively explained why the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 11, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 23, 24, 28 to 30, 32, 33, 36 to 43 and, in part, Amendment No 7, the second part of Amendment No 21 and the first part of Amendments Nos 27 and 34, I can inform you that the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 2, 9, 10, 12, 15, 20, 22, 25, 26, 31 and 35 and, in part, Amendment No 7, the first part of Amendment No 21 and the second part of Amendments Nos 27 and 34, as these amendments constitute an improvement and clarification of the Commission's proposal.
In the case of some of these amendments, however, in particular Amendments Nos 2, 15, 22, 25, 31 and the second part of Amendment No 27, further editorial changes might improve the text.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Byrne.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, I have been a socialist in Italy and in international organisations for 30 years.
Mr Martelli, you have had your minute.
Mr President, I wish to categorically reject Mr Martelli's remarks.
I would therefore urge you to vote in favour of Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 37 because taken together, they provide a sensible solution.
Mr President, my question relates to the order of the votes on the amendments concerning Paragraph 10, in other words, the genocide in Armenia.
So I suggest we draw up yesterday' s voting list again, in other words, to vote on Amendment No 13 first.
We have highly qualified people assisting us with our work.
Unfortunately we are not in a position to welcome that yet. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Report (A5-0275/2000) by Mr Jové Peres, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on Community participation in Regional Fisheries Organisations (RFOs) COM(1999) 613 - C5-0108/2000 - 2000/2068(COS)) (Parliament adopted the resolution)Explanations of vote Motion for a resolution (B5-0845/2000) Mr President, I gave my explanation of vote in writing but, in addition, I would like to say that I find it truly hard to believe that, precisely in the context of this report, Parliament voted against a series of amendments this morning which called, for example, for respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The delays in implementing the agreements can only be partly justified.
It is in consideration of this dual responsibility that I tabled amendments referring to the governments of the Euromed States.
If they do not assume their responsibility and make good their undertaking, there can be no project creating a multilateral sub-regional free trade area in the Mediterranean countries, as proposed at the Malta Conference in the context of south-south relations.
With regard to respect for the dignity of legal immigrants, in the spirit of a harmonised European migration policy, in addition to legal instruments guaranteeing the fair treatment of immigrants, financial aid instruments need to be established for all those young people who wish to return to their native countries to start work when they have finished secondary education or a university course in a European country.
Coordination of Member States' initiatives in this matter is becoming essential and could be carried out by the European Commission.
Another type of coordination concerns potential contributors - States and financial institutions - of international and regional aid, particularly in the Gulf countries.
Eriksson Report (A5-0294/2000) Mr President, I voted for this report, which lays down the action to be taken by the European Community in order to bring about genuine gender equality.
The Member States must also respect women in their laws on widows' and married women's pensions.
Mr President, despite the progress made in recent years within the European Union, within this Europe that champions human rights, structural discrimination on the grounds of sex still exists.
But all the declarations concerning 'equal opportunities for men and women' are cast in a rather garish light by the European directive authorising night work for women.
The ban on night work for women was one of those rare areas in which, by protecting women, the social legislation of certain countries was further advanced for female than for male workers.
If this is going to be possible, we must encourage this effective participation not just at Community level, but also in the Member States.
As the rapporteur states, it is important that the Commission considers the fact that a prerequisite of any genuine democracy is that all its citizens - men and women alike - should participate and be represented in equal measure in economic life, in decision-making forums, in social and cultural life and in civil society.
The Commission must nevertheless bear in mind that no work on gender equality will have a lasting effect unless women' s rights are improved, specifically in everyday practices in all spheres of activity. . (DE) In order to ensure equality of opportunities between women and men in cultural, social and economic life, and to minimise and prevent discrimination on grounds of gender, the Commission has adopted a twin-track approach of which the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities approves.
As you are aware, the Committee on Budgets has identified this NGO as a monopoly.
González Álvarez Report (A5-0309/2000) Mr President, there are several reasons why I voted against the González Álvarez report but, in order to keep within the minute allowed for this explanation of vote, I will mention only one.
As I left, I said to her, "Don't worry: we are going to debate the González Álvarez report which deals precisely with product safety".
Thus, we are opposed in principle to the original directive and must therefore oppose any extension of it.
What particularly disturbs us are the plans revealed by Commissioner Byrne to develop a network of enforcement authorities to help implement this law.
Having seen proposals for "networks" elsewhere in Community initiatives, we see in this the beginnings of something which is altogether unhealthy - a unified enforcement system amounting to a European Union consumer law enforcement service.
This report welcomes an improvement in current European law on product safety, but in my view the directive should not be applied to charity shops, a key feature in the British high street.
Lagendijk Report (A5-0324/2000) Mr President, the Council quite rightly hoped to rationalise EU aid to the Balkan states and to reform the European Agency for the Reconstruction of Kosovo, whose competence could gradually be extended to cover the entire region.
The European Parliament has rallied to the call of its old friend and has just voted for amendments in its favour.
Amendment No 5 proposes returning the running of the Agency to the Commission, which would be responsible to the European Parliament.
Amendment No 14 weakens the Governing Board vis-à-vis the Commission, by stipulating that its decisions are adopted by simple majority.
Amendment No 10 extends the tasks of the Agency, which is now effectively controlled by the Commission.
Finally, Amendment No 15 gives the Commission free rein in determining the rules governing the languages used by the Agency, about which we are very concerned.
Mr President, both as a member of the European People's Party and as a member of the Pensioners' Party in Italy, I was very happy to vote for this major report on European Union aid - and the management thereof - to Albania, Croatia, Bosnia, Montenegro, Serbia and Kosovo.
Kosovo has the right to decide about its future independently and in partnership with its neighbours.
At the same time, we should: 1.
Garot Report (A5-0305/2000) Mr President, I voted for the Garot report, although there are many gaps and inaccuracies which the Pensioners' Party does not support.
In particular, I would call upon the Commission to decide to put forward new, different types of proposals in order to resolve the problems suffered by agriculture and livestock farmers.
The proposal is unnecessary and harmful because it introduces a new form of aid for a sector which has so far acquitted itself well without aid.
Parliament' s report will introduce still more aid schemes.
We are therefore voting against both the Commission' s proposal and Parliament' s report.
Once the vote has been taken, this report on the common organisation of the market in pigmeat will simply add to the tonnes of paper of common agricultural market legislation.
We are opposed to the market economy, which is just as stupid and disastrous in regulating the economy as a whole as it is in regulating the production of pigmeat.
The Garot report is an attempt to improve on some aspects of the Commission' s proposal, by seeking to reach a compromise with the Council, specifically with regard to a financial contribution to the fund.
The lack of a regulatory system accentuated this movement in favour of large, often integrated, production units.
We believe we should support them by creating efficient tools not only to resolve the crises but also to better control the markets, improve quality and promote their products.
The creation of a regulatory fund for pigmeat production, as amended, does not place the free market in the balance but will protect small family holdings. - (NL) The pigmeat market is cyclical.
A slight variation in the supply is enough to spark a crisis situation.
However, the crises have been more drawn out in recent years and have had a terrible impact on young and small-scale pig farmers in particular.
In addition, such funds give Member States the opportunity, in the form of co-financing, to grant capped state aid to a greater or lesser extent.
These are the reasons we voted against the proposal.
Reducing production is the key to dealing with crises in the pig farming sector.
Morillon Report (A5-0297/2000) Mr President, I am very critical at this time when we have to decide upon relations between the European Union and Turkey.
Even though I voted for the motion, I would like to emphasise certain points which I feel that we should always bear in mind in this situation.
Secondly, Turkey is no longer alone against Greece but alone against the European Union.
This House is always talking about rights - the Charter was adopted yesterday - but when it comes to the application of these rights, not so much in practical terms but at least in terms of upholding them, Parliament takes alarming steps backwards which are certainly no credit to it.
Franz Werfel had Jewish and German-Bohemian relatives.
This goes to show that one disaster can trigger off the next.
There is a positive reference to the Loïzidou case and the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.
This is also in the interests of the Turkish people who would like to live in peace with their neighbours.
The truth is that neither the rapporteur nor European governments want to offend the military who, in reality, govern Turkey and reduce a section of the country to a state of emergency.
What is at stake is not even the acknowledgement of the reality of Armenian genocide, since this House has already had occasion to express its views on this, most notably in its resolution of June 1987.
What the Members of the European Parliament asked of Turkey in 1987 was to have the courage to open its eyes to the past so as to be able to look to the future.
Acknowledging genocide must be a call for dialogue to be established between the new Armenian and Turkish generations.
Europe must spread this message. - (FR) It was at the European Council meeting in Helsinki in December 1999 that the European Union decided to grant Turkey the status of candidate country for accession to the European Union and to establish an accession partnership and a single financial framework with a view to helping Turkey's application to progress in accordance with the Copenhagen criteria.
I am primarily thinking of the resumption of the political dialogue in the Association Council, which met on 11 April 2000 after being suspended for three years, and the establishment of eight subcommittees entrusted with the task of setting priorities for incorporation of the acquis communautaire, the signature by Turkey on 15 August and 8 September 2000 of four important UN conventions, on political, civil, social and cultural rights respectively, which must be ratified as soon as possible so that human rights and democratic pluralism may be guaranteed in that country, the Turkish Council of Ministers' adoption of the report presented by the Turkish Supreme Coordination Council for Human Rights, as a 'reference working document' , even if practical measures to protect the rights of minorities need to be added, and the adoption of the law on adjourning trials and deferring sentences for press and radio broadcasting offences.
But there are still many areas where progress is unsatisfactory, or indeed non-existent.
If Turkey wants to enter into accession negotiations, it still needs to make a great deal of effort.
This once again raises the question of whether Turkey really wants to be a Member of the European Union, or whether it would prefer to organise an integrated 'whole' with other Middle East countries, which would have very close links with the European Union at the commercial and economic level, at the security and stability level and also at the human rights and democratic rules level.
Sadly, many issues are still unresolved such as those related to the Kurdish and Armenian situations and to full respect for civil rights, although a great deal of progress has been made in these fields.
The Union must be more proactive and treat enlargement to include Turkey as a vital geopolitical strategy.
The genocide in Armenia is one such horror and such suffering can only be alleviated if it is recognised.
We cannot forget the deportation of the entire Armenian population to the deserts of Mesopotamia, the deportation of the Armenians of eastern Anatolia in 24 hours, the shooting of able-bodied men, the persecution of women, children and old people, who covered hundreds of kilometres on foot, without medical care and without food, divested of their belongings, raped, their throats slit on the open road, the deportation in 1915 of the Armenians of Cilicia and eastern Anatolia, the assassination of 600 Armenian prominent citizens in Constantinople, the extermination of more than a million Armenians in just over a year - in other words, almost half the Ottoman Armenians.
I remember the 1987 resolution which called on Turkey to acknowledge the Armenian genocide as a precondition to its accession to the European Union.
I remember the exact text of the conclusions of the Presidency in Paragraph 12: "Turkey is a candidate country destined to join the Union on the basis of the same criteria as applied to candidate countries" .
Nonetheless, the system that has been put in place will do its work and will impose its logic on us until the time comes when this awkward position will become so untenable that our relations with Turkey will be in serious and deep crisis.
It is simply a question of recognising that geography and history have made present-day Turkey a country that is not European.
In the face of stark realities, it is about fully respecting the dignity of the Turkish people by not seeking to impose on it a behaviour which it must adopt of its own accord, and by seeking to jointly develop close cooperation.
Jové Peres Report (A5-0275/2000) Mr President, as you are aware, the news is spreading throughout the world of fish that I am promoting their cause.
The countries of Europe, as a whole, have the same number of votes as Cuba, for example.
This situation does not worry the federalists for whom, when the Commission speaks with a single voice, we gain in strength.
What is more, our position is often weakened by our internal mechanisms, notably prior alignment to the lowest common denominator.
On the whole, our interests are undermined, they are not defended with the necessary force, and the role of the Commission is primarily that of a police officer vis-à-vis Member States to get them to apply the binding decisions that have been adopted, sometimes in spite of themselves, in the regional organisation in question.
The Jové Peres report would not only like to regularise this situation for existing regional organisations and those that are in the process of being established, it would also like to reinforce it by putting paid to the Commission' s habit of calling on the support of technical experts from different Member States.
We cannot accept any of these approaches.
the European Union is not a confederation of states but a 'sui generis' entity in international law, in which ...
there is a desire for economic, social and political integration...".
In this context, it appears necessary to increase international cooperation and ensure that the Community consolidates its undertaking to define a law on fish stocks.
The principle tool for achieving closer cooperation is the Regional Fisheries Organisations (RFOs), which play a key role on the international scene but which lack the human resources for the Community to be adequately represented.
The RFOs are particularly suitable for achieving the objectives established because of their regional nature, but, above all, they contribute to the rational management of resources by reflecting the specific characteristics of the fishing areas.
My comments naturally apply to the issue before us today, the representation of the European Community within regional fisheries organisations, but they apply equally to talks conducted for example within the World Trade Organisation.
If the Commission has the power to represent the Community and to negotiate in an international context, it is because it has received a mandate from the Council.
In a good many cases, such as fishing in certain regions of the world, the interests of Member States are not uniform.
What is important therefore is not to satisfy the Commission' s desire for domination by weakening the position of Europe, which would be in direct conflict with the correct application of the principle of subsidiarity.
But although I am upbeat about the outcome of this directive, it cannot conceal the fact that waste incineration is an emergency solution.
According to the Commission' s Green Paper, incinerating PVC waste gives rise to a number of problems.
Finally, I anticipate our being able to tighten up the waste incineration directive in a few years' time, in close consultation with industry.
The objective of this proposal, which aims to replace three directives relating to waste incineration, is to improve air, water and soil quality and human health by reducing emissions of pollutants linked to incineration and co-incineration, notably dioxins, furans and heavy metals.
This proposal also allows for the integration of the technical progress that has been achieved since the 1990s.
Overall, the result of the conciliation process is very pleasing.
The emission limit values for incineration and co-incineration plants have been brought into line, while taking account of the technical differences between these two activities.
I have always been in agreement with the joint draft which regards these two systems as complementary and not competing.
Nonetheless, we are satisfied with this third reading, because it reinforces the operation authorisation conditions.
Our group, which wanted to avoid the confusion between hazardous and non-hazardous waste, recognises that the current text clearly provides for different recovery and treatment processes, which are adapted to the types of waste involved.
We all know that it has been a long and very difficult process putting together the requirements for the incineration of both hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
I want to draw attention to just three important objectives we can achieve by means of the directive.
It will no longer be so financially attractive to export waste to other places in the Community where waste handling requirements are less strict.
The end result is that we now have a reasonably balanced proposal for imposing strict limits regarding the incineration of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, improving the environment and enabling waste to also be used in the production of electricity and heat.
A directive on the incineration of waste will increase the costs of burning waste, but will cut hazardous emissions and improve the state of the environment.
With the toughening of legislation on landfill there has been significant increase in waste incineration, and I know from my own experience in my constituency in Wales that incineration of hazardous and non-hazardous waste is as much a concern, in terms of its effects on health and the environment, as is landfill.
In particular, I welcome the commitment to improving public access to information on incineration plants and the obligation on plant operators to publish an annual report on emissions.
Overall, this much needed legislation will put in place safeguards to limit the worst effects of incineration on health and the environment and, I hope, discourage incineration-for-profit, which depends on the creation of more and more waste.
Thus, in the conciliation process we were able to agree that plants that incinerate more than two tons per hour should publish a report on their emissions each year and smaller incineration plants should be included in the lists that would come under public scrutiny.
The limit values for emissions in the annex to the directive were definitely the most difficult point.
I myself succeeded in having some amendments made to the report, vital for the continuation of co-incineration practices that have been in place in Finland for years and which are more ecological than those contained in the directive that is now about to be approved.
This directive will lead to significant reductions in emissions in several key pollutants across the European Union, despite the fact that the volume of waste incineration will increase over the coming years.
The conciliation process was demanding, but a well-balanced compromise has been found and the amendments of Parliament and the Council have produced a better directive.
The scope of the directive is much clearer.
Let me remind you that the directive is only one instrument in the whole waste-management concept of the Commission.
Burning waste is the final stage in the treatment of waste, due to the waste hierarchy, and the Commission will make strong efforts to reduce and recycle waste and in its approach to an integrated product policy.
In conclusion, this directive is a major contribution to the reduction of negative effects on the environment and the risks they pose to human health.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Today, Member States, while retaining their own responsibilities through the direct application of the subsidiarity principle, nevertheless have problems in common which justify a debate at European level.
However diverse national situations may be, one can recognise in all Member States a more or less general reduction in statutory cover, an enhanced role for supplementary health insurance schemes and a marked increase in discriminating factors.
Starting from the principle that every individual has a right to medical care and that healthcare is a social good to which all Member States must provide access, it is unacceptable that some are forced to simply abandon healthcare, allowing unwholesome systems to take their place which are disastrous for our societies.
The Employment and Social Policy Council adopted a European strategy for the fight against social exclusion in Luxembourg on 17 October.
The European Charter of Fundamental Rights, which will be officially announced at the Nice Summit, recognises the right to social security and to health protection as a common reference value.
To this end, I sought the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, which greatly clarified a number of points in a communication which was adopted with a very large majority.
The opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the proposals of the draftsman, Ioannis Marinos, gave rise to a large number of debates and favoured the adoption of compromise texts.
A broad consensus was finally reached within the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which I have the honour of chairing.
This will preferably be in the form of proposals for recommendations to include the following points: recognition by Member States of a common concept of a universal service to govern the basic service which will enable every European citizen to have access to the necessary care; establishing, in agreement with the private insuring bodies, guaranteed respect for the principle of non-discrimination; organising a system of pooling costs in order to cover the costs of persons and groups with serious existing diseases, and encouraging private insurers to develop preventative measures.
However, they are also needed in order to compensate for the increasing shortcomings of national health services as the result of public-sector management, high costs and cutbacks in expenditure by governments, expenditure which has steadily decreased in all the Member States during the 1980s and at the beginning of the 1990s.
As in the past, these gaps are being filled and the increase in the demand for better health services is being increasingly covered by subsidiary and voluntary supplementary health schemes set up by public- or private-sector agencies on a profit-making or non-profit-making basis.
With its Kohll and Decker decrees, the Court of Justice has sent a clear message to the EU Member States.
This issue has one or two implications for us, but it will also have an impact on the national systems.
Because it is very important.
I also think the Rocard report has made a breakthrough on that score, but it is very important for the Commission to take up the initiative now, and come to the table with an actual Green Paper.
However, equal access to health care must be available to everyone, without exception.
For instance, we see that in the US system, health costs as measured against gross domestic product are nearly twice as high as the EU average, and that in the United States there are still some 40 million people who have inadequate health insurance.
It would be wrong if the EU were to devise rules concerning, for example, data relating to health, or requiring everyone to be insured and, in that way, destroy the multiplicity of supplementary health insurance schemes which exist today in many countries and operate on actuarial principles.
This view turns up its nose at the non-profit-making mutual insurance companies, which are vital players in supplementary health insurance in several Member States.
The report by Michel Rocard, which is being presented today as amended in committee, demonstrates the difficulty of overcoming these contradictions.
The increasing transfer of responsibilities from the basic systems to the supplementary health insurance systems is doubly disadvantageous in that it reduces the obligations of these systems, while at the same time weakening non-profit-making mutual insurance companies which reject risk selection.
With human genetic mapping, it is necessary to prohibit genetic tests and the use of their results before the conclusion or during the term of a supplementary health protection contract.
The same applies to the health of all the citizens of our Member States and the cohesion of our territories.
Regional inequalities in terms of development are glaring enough.
Mr President, I would like to echo the sentiments of those who have congratulated Michel Rocard on this excellent initiative, which is in the best tradition of Parliament' s Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
The report is based on the intention expressed by the Council in 1992 to achieve convergence of objectives and policies in the sphere of social security, and it links these with the existing objectives announced in Lisbon with regard to social cohesion and economic progress.
I expressly included a third element in my contribution in the committee, which I believe makes another strong case for European action in the field of health insurance; in particular, the removal of obstacles to freedom of movement, and not just the free movement of services that Bartho Pronk talked about, but also the free movement of persons within the EU.
An opinion is being prepared on this in the Social and Economic Council.
It looks as if employers and employees are at last to reach agreement on basic health insurance in which market forces and competition between insurers will be combined with agreements on a compulsory basic package and, in addition, a broad package with optional elements which must, at the very least, be subject to an acceptance obligation and an average premium.
The logic of this is that all health care not included in this basic insurance has to be covered by private supplementary health insurance.
Supplementary health insurance schemes must provide protection against the risk of bankruptcy, insolvency and fraud, but should not serve as an excuse for limiting the range of services provided by statutory health insurance.
Mr President, I should also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his own-initiative report, particularly because it is precisely that: an own-initiative report.
But above all he draws attention, for example in Paragraph 3, to the significant problems regarding the long-term sustainability of public health care systems throughout the EU because of the increasing cost of advances in treatment possibilities, as well as the growing demand from an increasingly elderly population.
His report is a useful contribution to that debate, though I hope he agrees in turn that the contributions made in committee, including those made on this side of the House, may perhaps have made it even more useful.
Health care is financed in different ways in different Member States and the roles of private health insurers are correspondingly different.
We really are on a tightrope and I think that decisions on supplementary insurance which will apply to all the Member States need to be taken cautiously and with a great deal of circumspection.
In this sense, I think that, basically, we should await the Commission study on current systems as well as a Commission study on the American system and the schemes in operation in other countries because then we shall have a clearer picture of all this.
Mr President, those of us who have devoted ourselves all our lives to studying social issues will remember that the old manuals used to include a definition of social protection as a set of state protection measures to cover economically assessable risks affecting individuals or families which individuals - family units - could not cover themselves.
It is, moreover, a fact that social systems - protection systems - have been suffering from the influences and consequences of economic, demographic and public health situations, etc.
And it is also a fact that economic recession, unemployment, social exclusion, the appearance of new diseases, the ageing of the population, as well as advances in research, improved therapies, the development of new techniques of diagnosis and treatment have all had a profound effect on the levels of mandatory social and health cover.
Articles 34 and 35 of our fledgling European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights recognise and respect the entitlement to social security benefits and social services and, at the same time, proclaim the entitlement of everyone residing and moving legally within the Union to social security benefits and social advantages in accordance with Community law and national laws and practices.
Complementary private health insurance, whether voluntary or not, coexists with the mandatory public system and can be a way to achieve quality health care within a given time.
This report and its accompanying amendments would like to impose rules to prevent forms of selection, based on criteria of health or handicap, on sharks such as the insurance company, Axa, which has multiplied the contributions paid by parents of mentally handicapped children by a factor of ten.
Imposing such rules is the very minimum necessary and we will vote in favour, but we have no intention of accepting the fact that this proposal releases Member States from their duty to carry out a literally crucial task in terms of a public health service.
In order to avoid any misunderstandings, I would once again like to stress that the present report concerns supplementary health insurance and not health care as such, although obviously the two cannot be separated.
Supplementing collective solidarity mechanisms with private or group insurance is completely in keeping with the principle of subsidiarity.
So information has been gathered, research has been carried out, the systems in the various Member states have been investigated, etc., which is certainly the right way to go about it.
The new proposal before us is for a Green Paper.
This is better than the original proposal but even this is a step too far.
The Commission welcomes this initiative and it comes at crucial time because we have just launched a political debate at the European level on the reform of social protection.
It is the first time that we have decided that there is a need for cooperation on reform of social protection systems at the European level.
This report underlines the economic and social challenges posed by the measures relating to supplementary health insurance and, of course, supplementary health insurance is of vital importance nowadays because the basic insurance system is ripe for reform and because healthcare needs are becoming greater and greater.
There are huge differences from Member State to Member State as far as the definition is concerned, as far as the functioning of the systems are concerned, the combination between the public and the private sector.
As an example, as far as the differences in the role played by voluntary and supplementary health insurance is concerned, the coverage of the population by voluntary or supplementary health insurance mechanisms ranges from under 0.5% in Sweden to more than 85% in France.
However, these figures are somewhat misleading since both the concept and the coverage of the system differ significantly from country to country.
The Commission will act immediately in the framework of its competences and I will try to reply to the conclusions of your report.
However, it is essential to draw up an in-depth report on the situation and we can do this as soon as possible.
Of course, we will take into account the wide variety of national systems and the complex nature of healthcare systems across Europe.
The Commission will immediately launch a study of supplementary health insurance.
This study can form the basis for a communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament proposing initiatives or measures.
We can go from general questions such as access to healthcare for all, to the more specific questions on the rights of individuals who want to settle or work in other Member States.
As far as the other two proposals are concerned - the directive, the legal action, and this European forum - this is something we can think about.
It could form the second step after this study in one year's time when we not only have the comparison between Member States but we could also work with comparable indicators which are important for any proposals for European cooperation.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
In fact, the proposal for a Community programme presented by the Commission to foster cooperation between the Member States in the field of combating social exclusion is little more than a study programme.
It is crucial to guarantee good-quality employment with reasonable rights and wages and to establish conditions for access to public services that are also of high quality.
It is crucial for the Council to keep the promises it has given, not only with regard to the programme, but also with regard to setting appropriate objectives and goals, to be agreed on by the end of this year, so that it meets the expectations it created with the Lisbon Summit conclusions on its commitment to combat poverty, unemployment and social exclusion.
Lastly, I wish to express my gratitude for the superb cooperation of my fellow members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, of the rapporteurs from other committees, of the Economic and Social Committee, of the Committee of the Regions, of the NGOs involved in social work and of the specialists within the Commission, the French Presidency and Parliament who have worked with me.
I thank you for your understanding during this procedure, which means that we are able to contribute to the European Union once again having a programme in this field, despite its limitations and shortcomings.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Figueiredo for her report.
Secondly, I would like to say how delighted I am that a compromise has indeed been reached on this important report, which means that the first reading can be brought to a successful conclusion.
Setting up a committee alone will lead to a six month delay in the establishment of the programme.
The Committee on Budgets insists that technical support be included in the programme.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report.
Thirdly, the Member States must, at long last, as requested and initiated in Lisbon, agree on concrete targets and benchmarks, so that Parliament can carry out its role as a guardian and as an animateur in this process.
We support the various elements of the programme, such as a multidimensional approach to this phenomenon, measures on health, education, housing, cohesion and complementarity with other related policies and the involvement of both non-governmental organisations and the very people who are subject to social exclusion.
We support increasing the budget to EUR 100 000 000 and we attach great importance to the need for the programme to be carried out at grass roots level.
The Equal Opportunities Committee stressed the need to take account in the programme of the fact that women are particularly vulnerable to social exclusion, particularly special categories of women such as immigrants, women with special needs, unemployed women, women with no modern vocational training and single mothers.
We must monitor the application of the programme and its evaluation very closely, Commissioner, because we believe that it will help to achieve the objective we are all striving towards - the objective of a social Europe, a citizens' Europe.
Updating the stability programmes in Germany, Finland and the Netherlands The next item is the Commission recommendations for a Council opinion on updating the stability programmes in Germany, Finland and the Netherlands.
Mr President, the Commission has today adopted three recommendations regarding three Council opinions on the updated stability programmes in Germany, the Netherlands and Finland; these are the first of the 2000-2001 round that have been updated and submitted.
As you will remember, the Stability and Growth Pact stipulates close, on-going supervision of the Member States' budgetary position during the third phase of Economic and Monetary Union.
The central elements in this supervision process are the stability programmes, which the Member States in the euro area have to present every year.
The countries outside the euro area present their convergence programmes, which to a great extent resemble the stability programmes, although the objectives to be achieved are different.
The aim of this initiative, as you will remember, is to try to create sufficient margin so that in a crisis situation the government deficit will not exceed the reference budget deficit set at 3% of GDP, which could obviously be reached in a crisis phase.
In their updating of the programmes each year, the Member States include an extra year in the programme, analyse the budget policy implemented during the past year, explain and describe the budget policy measures they have adopted, and also revise their budget forecasts and objectives.
The document presented by a Member State is assessed by the Commission and, on the basis of this assessment, the Council may adopt the recommendation that the Commission presents.
More and more Member States are reaching balanced or even clearly positive budgetary positions.
This has given us a different idea, making us wonder whether this Stability and Growth Pact has run its course, having achieved the quantitative objective of a particular final figure, or whether it is worth introducing other aspects relating to the quality of public finances in future programmes.
The Commission has opted for this second possibility; hence, in our annual assessment, we shall now also review other aspects previously not considered in the past: first, the orientation of budget policy in each of the Member States according to the point in the cycle at which it finds itself, that is, whether these kinds of budgetary measures are procyclic or anticyclic in nature and to what extent they help the market situation or create tensions within it.
Thus, for instance, problems such as the ageing of the population are becoming increasingly more important.
In this respect may I just remind you that the last Ecofin Council asked the Commission to include in the assessment of the stability programmes from next year precisely this long-term aspect of public finances in connection with the ageing of the population.
Of the three programmes on which I am about to comment, one of them - the Netherlands programme - already includes an annex with a specific analysis of this particular problem.
I am now going to give a very brief mention of the three programmes that have recently been updated.
The three countries plan to introduce major tax cuts in 2001 and in subsequent years, which will relieve the tax pressure on labour and stimulate employment and investment; they are therefore positive and necessary provided that the public finances are kept stable.
Germany and the Netherlands both foresee a deterioration in their budget positions for the next year as a result of these tax cuts.
This issue is particularly important in the case of Germany since it means the gradual reduction of the public deficit will be interrupted.
In the case of the Netherlands, the Commission has other concerns, such as the suitability of the policy mix and the risks associated with the fiscal incentive effects of the tax cuts in a situation of strong economic growth, which might lead to the Netherlands economy overheating.
Both countries have very consistently made proper use of this revenue by using it to reduce the national debt.
Because of this factor and, more importantly, better budgetary positions and stronger economic growth, there will be a clear tendency for the proportions of national debt to fall over the coming years.
This year, for instance, Germany hopes to bring this proportion down to the reference level of 60% of GDP, and the Netherlands hopes to bring it even lower than that this year.
These trends in the national debt mean lower interest payments, which will, in turn, help provide the necessary framework for tax cuts, and in some cases for specific increases in public spending.
Based on its own programme, the Netherlands Government is to make important decisions on the use of its budget margins, and it would be appropriate if it used these resources to bring the national debt down more quickly, which would give it greater margins to face these problems in the future.
In the last two countries, the programmes were adopted at the same time as the budget proposals for the coming year, which in the Commission' s opinion is a more suitable practice than used to happen, when we received these updates after each country' s budget had been presented.
This ensures that the annual budget decisions are made within a multiannual strategic framework and gives the Community institutions an up-to-date, overall view of each country' s economic situation based on the most recent data.
The Commission therefore recommends that the remaining Member States that are still preparing their updates should follow this example, not this year, when unfortunately it can no longer happen, but in future years.
These are the basic comments that I wished to make on the three programmes we present today.
Mr President, Commissioner, we are grateful to you for your report on trends in net government borrowing in the European Union, Mr Solbes Mira.
We have noted that this development is taking place in the largest country in the euro area, whereas the Netherlands and Finland have already achieved what we are seeking, that is budget surpluses which enable excessive debt to be repaid.
Basically, because of the positive impact that the tax measures may have in Germany.
Germany has a higher than average tax burden.
The set of tax measures adopted by Germany affects the supply side of the economy more than the demand side but will also have some effect on demand, and we believe it will allow the growth potential of the German economy to increase in the medium term.
Hence we must insist on the German Government taking special care when drawing up the working programmes for 2002, on increasing revenue and on cutting costs in order to achieve a reduction in the budget deficit again.
We must not forget that we have had a double setback in the last year, as a result of oil prices trebling in little more than a year.
I shall be able to comment on this in more detail after the 22nd, when we present our economic perspective for the coming year, but according to our initial estimates, in 2000 we shall end up with an average level of inflation a little above the inflation target laid down by the Central Bank, but clearly higher than what we had forecast in our April perspective - we had talked of 1.8% then.
Commissioner, you rightly - in my opinion - placed great emphasis in your speech on the problem represented by the ageing population, both for the three countries in question and all the other European countries as well, and you touched upon the need to tackle the issue of the ageing population and therefore the question of the pension deficit, which is an unknown quantity weighing heavily upon the public finances of the European countries, hindering recovery, and it will do so increasingly in the future.
In last July's publication, the European Central Bank indicated a way, in the social security plans reform - that is, moving from the current "Pay-as-you-go" system to a funded system for mandatory contributions as well - of freeing up resources and, in perspective, ensuring the sustainability of European social security plans.
The report emphasises the fact that the reforms carried out so far in the social security systems are helping to improve the situation.
As for the solution that can be adopted, it will, of course, be a national decision to be made in each of the Member States; the Commission will not make any proposals in this regard.
First they are moving towards a search for some system for financing the pay-as-you-go schemes, which may mean some element of pre-funding; I mentioned the Dutch system before, which already has obvious pre-funding elements.
They are also moving towards making a public pay-as-you-go scheme compatible with private pre-funding schemes, and of course they are also compatible with support for the setting up of specific investment funds, which may obtain long-term tax advantages and may help to deal with the ageing problem.
As you know, yesterday the French Government adopted national measures to strengthen health safety, including the suspension of the use of animal meal in feed for pigs and poultry.
The Council of the European Union is also playing an active role, in concert with the European Parliament and the European Commission, in updating and constantly reinforcing Europe' s raft of measures to prevent and combat this disease.
It is important to take stock of the situation with regard to the fight against BSE in the broader context of food safety developments in Europe.
Yesterday, then, in Paris, the French Government announced an intensification of national health safety measures.
Two facts have increased concerns about meal of animal origin in animal feed.
The hypothesis of the accidental or fraudulent cross contamination of these animals by meal of animal origin has been put forward.
That is why the French Government decided to suspend the use of meat-and-bone meal in feed for pigs, poultry, fish and domestic animals.
The methods of control will be strengthened along the entire food chain.
We propose that the Commission and the European Union should thus undertake to extend these tests at a European level, in the light of scientific recommendations.
The progress of research is a crucial factor in improving our knowledge of BSE as well as in its prevention and treatment.
That is why the efforts that have been made since 1997 in terms of research will be extended and broadened.
The current unpopularity of beef consumption is reflected in a significant imbalance in the market.
France has asked that the situation of the beef market be included on the agenda of the Agriculture Council, which will take place in Brussels on 20 and 21 November.
This very day in Brussels, the experts on the Standing Veterinary Committee at the European Commission have been meeting with a view to preparing ways of extending the European programme for carrying out screening tests on cattle.
This meeting of veterinary experts at the Commission is especially useful in the run-up to the next Agriculture Council, which will take place on 20 and 21 November under the chairmanship of my fellow Minister, Jean Glavany.
The results of this first debate will be presented to the Council on 20 November.
The key issue is to restore the confidence of European consumers in beef.
The Presidency has also planned to hold, during the same meeting, an open debate on food safety on the basis of work in progress, current developments regarding the crisis and recent proposals from the Commission on hygiene and food law, particularly on setting up a European Food Agency.
All these measures relate to BSE in both cattle and sheep and to scrapie in small ruminants.
By the same token, the Commission has put forward measures on food hygiene, which are under examination both in the Council and in Parliament.
The Commission' s very recent proposal on food law and the setting up of a European Food Agency will be debated extensively during the Internal Market, Consumers and Tourism Council to be held on 30 November, which I will be chairing, with a view to devising guidelines for the operation of this agency.
The European Parliament recently took up a position on the Commission White Paper, which foreshadows the establishment of this agency.
I am sure that your parliamentary calendar will take full account of the need to move ahead more quickly so that, as suggested by the Commission, we can have a European Food Agency by 2002.
As soon as this proposal to set up the European Food Agency was presented by the Commission on 8 November, the Presidency enlisted the work of the Council.
Two meetings of the Council group were held on 9 and 14 November to prepare the general debate, which will take place on 30 November in the Council.
The European Food Agency will also provide clear and accessible information on issues arising out of its mandate.
However, events in France over the past week clearly call for an earlier discussion of these events.
There has been a worrying increase in the number of cases of BSE detected in France over the past year, in part due to the introduction of targeted testing.
Clearly, we need to look at these developments and draw the appropriate lessons.
However, this relatively low incidence is no reason for complacency.
The fact is that the incidence is rising in several Member States.
Let me briefly outline my main observations in this respect.
All Member States should follow the French example.
I will return to this point later.
A lack of clarity and transparency in addressing the issue has contributed hugely to this unfortunate situation.
Finally, we must not overlook the huge progress in recent years, in the past year in particular, in putting in place a framework to tackle BSE.
Inspired by this Parliament, the Commission has been the driving force in pressing for the adoption of measures to eradicate BSE.
And this was done notwithstanding the frequent lack of support in Member States.
The proposal adopted by the Commission last week on the establishment of a European Food Authority is an even more significant initiative.
I expect a strong endorsement of the Commission's proposals on the Food Authority from the European Council in Nice - and I note what you, Madam President, said on that issue only very recently.
Parliament can equally signal its commitment to the proposal by giving it the highest priority with a view to its adoption in the shortest possible time.
The Commission view that targeted testing is essential in establishing a true picture of the real incidence of BSE in the Community has been fully vindicated by the test results in France.
The Commission intends to put proposals to the Agriculture Council on Monday next, which will fully answer public demands in this respect.
The implications of recent events for the Community measures on meat-and-bone meal are also at issue.
Clearly, explanations are necessary for the increased incidence of BSE, not only in France but also in other Member States.
I look forward to the forthcoming opinion of AFSSA, the French Food Safety Agency, which will help inform the decision of the French Authorities on whether this provisional measure needs to be continued.
The evidence still strongly suggests that the increased incidence in some Member States has its origin in the period before the introduction of reinforced controls in 1996 and subsequently.
And it is certainly the case that the current controls are very strict.
It is unacceptable on public health grounds.
The Commission, for its part, will continue to impress on Member States the importance of this issue.
The Commission's Food and Veterinary Office already affords top priority to Member States' controls in relation to protective measures against BSE.
For example, the requirement to remove and destroy SRMs only entered into force from 1 October 2000 and I want urgent on-the-ground confirmation that this requirement is being enforced.
Parliament's assistance in this respect would also be most welcome in alerting the public in the Member States to the importance of these controls.
This proposal provides the opportunity for putting in place a comprehensive framework to ensure that all the relevant issues relating to animal waste are addressed.
Again, I hope to work with Parliament in putting this proposal on the statute book as a matter of urgency.
Let me add a few comments on what I said earlier in this respect.
In the situation confronting us it is always tempting to look to a magic solution, a solution which can, in one step, both eliminate risk and restore confidence.
This Parliament also accepts that there is a place for meat-and-bone meal produced under safe conditions.
Parliament acknowledged that in its report on BSE in 1997 and I quote: "The recycling of carcasses and slaughter waste by the production of meat-and-bone meal for animal feed offers the best alternative on economic, environmental and health policy grounds".
If there is a weakness in the controls, clearly there is a problem.
I welcome in this respect that Prime Minister Jospin yesterday also announced a substantial strengthening of controls on the food chain including a big increase in staff.
I will be asking Member States on Monday if there are concerns that weaknesses in the implementation of controls over the past several years, in contravention of the Community legislation in the matter, are a factor in the current increased incidence of BSE.
Finally, Madam President, I would add that the Commission has recently presented a proposal to Parliament under codecision for a regulation on animal waste.
This proposal aims at putting in place a Community framework which will address all relevant issues governing the treatment of animal waste, especially its use in animal feed.
It is notable that in the discussions that have taken place already on this proposal with the Member States, a ban on the feeding of meat-and-bone meal to animals has not been suggested as a necessary measure.
Instead, the consensus view is that the Community must ensure that only material from animals fit for human consumption should be used in the production of meat-and-bone meal.
Yes, difficult as it may be to believe, it took four years to agree a measure which I consider to be fundamental to public health protection.
Parliament itself now has its opportunity to shape decisively the future direction of policy towards waste at Community level.
Madam President, the fact is that we would not have needed today's debate at all if all the Member States had immediately and fully implemented the requirements of the BSE Temporary Committee of Inquiry into BSE and the BSE follow-up committee of February and November 1997.
I am also willing to concede that the Commission, no doubt because of enormous pressure from the European Parliament, has made great progress in recent years in gaining acceptance for the principle of precautionary consumer protection.
The public cannot understand why our legislative process is so slow in times of crisis.
That is also why I wish to say here that the Commission must have powers at such times of crisis to take more rapid decisions in relation to infringements of Community law or when there is an imminent risk of such infringement, and that it should be in a position to take action in the public interest or if public health is threatened.
That is why I specifically support the joint motion for a resolution calling on us to leave behind this atmosphere of suspicion and universally introduce rapid testing methods for BSE not only for animals affected, not only for animals over 18 months, but for all animals involved in the food chain, if at all possible. (Applause) This will give us a basis for more extensive and objective criteria for assessing the risk of BSE or the absence of BSE in Member States and allow us to take new and more far-reaching decisions.
Mr President-in-Office, I specifically call on the Council to make known its opinion on the TSE regulation. (Applause) We completed the first reading in May.
Indeed, France has the right to ban animal meal for reasons of domestic policy.
But what may be right for France in this situation is not necessarily right for all Member States.
I shall be quite open about this: what we will be calling for in the motion for a resolution tomorrow - a temporary general ban on the production and use of animal meal in feedingstuffs until all criteria relating to standards and safe origins have been met, together with the implementation of the Commission proposal to eliminate affected animals for good - is hard for many Member States, but we are going along with it because without society's backing we will have problems in the long run.
However, it must also be possible to use animal parts approved for human consumption in animal feed as well in the future.
Nor can I understand why France could not transpose the provisions on the pressure, temperature and heating time for the production of animal meal more quickly.
Excuse me, Mr President-in-Office, if I make a rather heretical assumption, namely that you personally are certainly very interested in public health and in consumer health, but time and again I cannot help feeling that the Council considers market organisation and economic aspects to be much more compelling.
The first is good legislation.
Secondly, it is important to emphasise - and this is not some new idea - that anyone who consciously allows an animal that is sick, or that is suspected of being sick, to enter the food or feed chain is committing a criminal offence.
Madam President, Minister, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission and the European Parliament have a duty to react in the face of the concern of consumers and European farmers over food safety.
The BSE crisis is now a public health problem, if not a problem of society.
As a first step, our group is calling for the immediate imposition of systematic testing for BSE throughout the European Union and, at the same time, for the use of MBMs in animal feed to be completely suspended on a temporary basis.
The practices of intensive farming have been the same everywhere.
So we must have an exact overview of the situation, country by country.
Our group is calling for an immediate ban on MBMs for all livestock as long as Member States are unable to guarantee the implementation of laws preventing BSE and the strict application of European directives.
Commissioner, Minister, we must have strict controls in order to guarantee that specified risk materials are separated out throughout the entire animal food chain.
The grass in our meadows, white clover and vetch - currently neglected by the CAP - may provide satisfactory solutions for the safety of animal feed and human food.
It is possible to save livestock production by reforming an agricultural economic system which, even today, makes farmers and consumers hostages to multinationals that are more interested in profit than in food safety.
Policies must change this situation so that those who are really responsible for this crisis can be penalised and so that precise decisions can make it possible for a first step to be taken towards ending this tragic crisis.
The work of this Parliament' s committee of enquiry contributed to the application of measures to protect consumer health: in particular by banning animal meal for cattle and through the compulsory labelling of beef.
It is therefore urgent that measures are taken to reassure consumers and to restore their confidence in food safety.
Detection tests must also be extended to all cattle entering the human food chain.
The current crisis has led to a significant slump in sales and to a fall in prices, which are hurting livestock producers and all those involved in the beef sector.
Selective aid, such as market support and a grass subsidy, are essential.
This has come to pass because the incompetence of governments has been aggravated by our own inability to respond to the twofold challenge before us: the health challenge and the economic challenge.
The reality is something else.
The scientific authorities clearly stated that the development of the disease in cattle was not under control and they pinpointed the alarming growth in the numbers of animals affected.
The labelling of beef that was agreed on, which is a minimum form of labelling and only came into force two and a half months ago, does not make it possible for the origin of animals to be adequately traced, and we were very slow to ban specified risk materials.
We need far-reaching measures to be adopted at a national and European level if we want to avoid economic bankruptcy and a major health scare.
We need to adopt the proposals put forward by the President-in-Office of the European Council, especially those banning animal meal in feed in all sectors of animal production.
The measures adopted by the French Government in this regard are, as I said, inadequate.
Firstly, as others have said before me, we must have systematic screening of all cattle slaughtered for consumption by European citizens.
This test can be developed on an industrial scale very quickly.
Public opinion must be fully informed of the characteristics of the test I am talking about.
The French screening test for BSE was developed at the CEA (a public-sector research institute).
The results of the European assessment, which were published in July 1999, suggest that it is 10 to 300 times more sensitive than the three other tests assessed at the same time.
We sacrificed our soya, alfalfa and peas in the course of the COM negotiations in Marrakech.
This will only be possible if there is no longer any doubt in the public mind, in other words, if screening is, as I would insist, systematic.
And what about the labelling and traceability system, which will not be complete until 2003, despite the risks for consumers and the absence of a total guarantee for livestock producers?
We must acknowledge the special responsibility of the Commission, as called for by the committee of enquiry of this Parliament.
These are the real causes of the crisis, and it is only by tackling these causes that you will be able to permanently solve this appalling problem, which you helped to create.
Madam President, on behalf of all livestock producers may I express my deep concern at the French Government ban on meat-and-bone meal in animal feed.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, this debate has one thing in its favour; that at least it is highlighting the differences of opinion that exist among us, especially between the Council and the Commission.
The health of European consumers must be a top priority in all decisions that are adopted.
The entire food chain is at the heart of this problem.
Mr Byrne, you are well aware that no MBMs are completely safe.
But what we are certain of is that we must restore consumer confidence and support the farming sector.
I condemn the limitations and the worrying consequences of this policy.
European solidarity must also play a role, because our policy has exposed its inconsistencies: set-aside, animal meal for cattle, nitrates, pesticides.
The CAP must be reorganised to encourage farmers.
The aim of this is to avoid not only microbiological but also chemical contamination of feedingstuffs in future.
Regular and strict checks of technological standards and compliance with legislation on animal meal production should form part of a comprehensive safety concept.
Madam President, we have certainly been through a lot with the BSE crisis.
It has led to the resignation of a Commission, a British government was voted out partly because of it and now there is an internal policy crisis in France - who knows where it will all end!
I tabled a question on the danger of BSE in December 1995, three months before the scandal broke.
Madam President, one of the primary objectives of the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council must continue to be guaranteeing food safety by enforcing effective laws and performing stringent controls which will restore consumer confidence.
We therefore need to develop an effective control system in all the Member States of the European Union.
Madam President, I would like to go into the financial implications of the matter, partly in my capacity as rapporteur for the agricultural budget.
Well then, Council and Commission, you have a fair amount of financial leeway on which to base your robust policy.
There is a general acknowledgement that BSE, which began as a British disease and today is being presented as a French crisis, is really a European disease - a European problem - and it must be tackled on that basis.
Many speakers have said that we need to extend the ban on meat-and-bone meal as a mammalian food stuff.
We must take precautions now, not just on behalf of those of us who are concerned, but on behalf of the complacent minority of Member States as well.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I am happy to hear within this Chamber that the CAP must be changed at all costs.
It is outrageous that, after three BSE crises in the space of a decade, no guilty party has been identified or brought to book.
Madam President, I would like to make three points.
Secondly, even before this crisis, the Community suffered a serious deficit in vegetable proteins, since we accepted, at Blair House, an incredible limitation on our oil-seed production to 30% of our requirements, just to please the United States and its soya exporters.
Now, the Community cannot cultivate more than 5.5 million hectares of oil seeds, nor does it have the right to do so, even though our needs are in the order of 18 million hectares.
That is why food manufacturers have had to make extensive use of MBMs in their products.
We denounced this here in Parliament, when Jimmy Goldsmith was here.
We also ask that the disastrous Blair House Agreement, which binds our oil seed producers hand and foot, should be renegotiated within the framework of the COM.
There are only declarations and opinions, but no decisions as regards directives or regulations.
We must reassure the public that the Europe of rights does genuinely protect the rights enshrined in its Treaties and in the Fundamental Charter of European Rights.
I am sure, Commissioner, that Parliament will lend you all the support necessary for the new initiatives.
I feel that, until it is proved otherwise, a total ban on meat-and-bone meal has become necessary, just as the introduction of general testing and the harmonisation and effective implementation of Community legislation in all the Member States is necessary, and just as it is necessary not just to monitor the application of new labelling rules but to bring forward the introduction of these rules to the earliest possible juncture.
I will end by affirming this principle: the cost of these measures will certainly be very high, but our priority is health.
Commissioner, I urge you to ensure that these tests are also carried out in other Member States.
Perhaps we should think about the victims for a change, and all the relatives of people who have died of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
Commissioner, I listened to what you said very carefully and was most surprised when, at one point in your speech, you said that you did not have a magic solution to this problem.
We want application, members of the Council, we want action and we want it throughout the European Union; we do not want fragmented action by France or this or that country.
Madam President, I am totally convinced that the Union in its entirety lacks the political, moral and educational authority to talk about the quality and safety of food.
Nor is it a coincidence that the President-in-Office and the Commissioner refrained from mentioning the main source of all of these problems in the food chain, which is, of course, the common agricultural policy itself.
Parliament has voted half the budget to be spent on encouraging production.
We have already discussed the United Kingdom and Portugal in this Chamber and now we are discussing France.
Madam President, there is no let up in media interest in the BSE issue.
The same goes for those dreadful pictures of people affected by the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, despite all the action taken in the Member States, not to mention at EU level.
In the Netherlands, the legislation governing the use of offal in animal feed is already relatively stringent as matters stand.
Therefore, I am amazed, under these circumstances, that it is still permissible for corpses to be used or processed.
There is clearly a need for stringent European measures.
Madam President, I speak today both as an MEP and a beef farmer from the United Kingdom.
The farming industry in Britain has suffered greatly from the BSE crisis, both financially and in terms of consumer confidence.
However, we have learnt a great deal over the years as to how to put our house in order.
Recently, the Phillips inquiry into BSE has been published in the UK.
The French Government should also read this report because they are in danger of making exactly the same mistakes as were made in the UK at the time of our BSE crisis.
Furthermore, the recent tests that have been carried out in France of fallen stock have shown several hidden cases of BSE.
In Britain we have also learnt that it is very difficult to stop meat-and-bone meal, that is produced and incorporated in the feedingstuffs for pigs and poultry, also - either by accident or by intention - landing up in feed for cattle and ruminants.
It is very difficult for a feed mill to guarantee that its production lines are completely cleared of meat-and-bone meal before they start manufacturing feedingstuffs for pigs and poultry.
I have long been of the opinion that a complete ban on the use of meat-and-bone meal in animal feeds should be in place throughout Europe.
One of the main reasons for this action is that the French Food Agency takes the precautionary principle very seriously.
I would suggest that the European Commission also use the precautionary principle in regard to beef from France.
The United Kingdom has suffered with this terrible plague.
Commissioner Byrne was very strong today in his opening statement when he said to the House that he was prepared to look at this matter of meat-and-bone meal and take it on.
It is imperative upon government authorities, be they national or European.
I believe that we must now try, following your debates, to define the key ways, in terms of both method and means, in order to ensure compliance with this imperative.
The Presidency believes that this method is based on scientific research and consultation.
You have dealt with all these problems in turn.
Some countries have already gone down this road.
So there are doubts, there are uncertainties, but I believe that our joint text and your debates here in this House have enabled us to make progress.
I believe we should have a single, comprehensive set of laws, which can be applied to meet this demand and thereby avoid distortions of competition, thus making it possible for the single market to operate smoothly.
Rest assured that, when it comes to continuing the work in the Council and my exchanges with the Commission, I will bear all this in mind, in the full knowledge that reaching agreement within the institutions is one of the best ways of dealing with a problem as complex and universal as that of food safety.
On 30 November, during the Council meeting, the French Presidency will launch an important debate with a view to providing the first responses to a situation of widespread suspicion, which calls into question the credibility of our institutions in the eyes of our citizens.
We are talking about public health, and hence of serious events, which must be treated as such, in a strict and, of course, transparent manner.
One thing I can say with conviction is that I am aware that all these people before me are experts on the question of food safety.
I am struck by one thing that is particularly important in this context, that is, that the spectrum of debate, particularly on the issue of whether there should be a total ban on meat-and-bone meal goes all the way from "do it" to "don't do it" - in a Chamber filled with experts on food safety.
What we must bear in mind when considering this issue is the fact that there is already in existence a ban on the provision of meat-and-bone meal to cattle.
In addition, there is legislation in place setting out how the meat-and-bone meal, how this feed, is to be processed - another safeguard that is introduced into the system to protect public health and food safety.
By saying that you must ban meat-and-bone meal from feed for pigs and poultry that cannot contract BSE by this vector, what you are saying is not that you are protecting pigs and poultry, but that you are protecting cattle.
It raises the question that I am afraid to even ask.
I believe that there has been compliance with the legislation and if I believe that - and I do not think I am being naïve - I do not believe that it is essential to have a widespread ban on meat-and-bone meal to be fed to pigs and poultry.
If there is a widespread adverse reaction against the authorities in France for doing the right thing, I hope it does not instil timidity in other Member States when they do exactly the same.
The tests that I am referring to now are somewhat different.
It has been said that this will be very expensive, will involve a large number of carcasses and so on.
The three tests available - French, Swiss and Irish - are unable to detect BSE in animals under a certain age.
It is important that we try and achieve a consensus as to the right way forward and find proportionate responses and not make accusations to others who, when they identify a proportionate response, say that you are not doing enough to protect consumer public health and consumer protection.
We must make sure we are fair to one another in identifying these measures which all of us believe to be necessary, because the aim of this exercise is the protection of public health and food safety and the enhancement of consumer confidence.
Madam President, I would like to make a very brief personal statement, since our fellow Member, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, has attacked the members of my group for not taking part in the committee of enquiry into BSE.
We did not take part in the second committee of enquiry quite simply because we were excluded by the operation of the d'Hondt law and by the Rules of Procedure, or lack of them, in this Parliament.
In any event, Mr Martinez gave his formal warning in 1990, a full 6 years before the first committee of enquiry.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
Question No 17 by (H-0848/00): Subject: Minimum standards governing the expulsion of immigrants The Council meeting of 18 December 1997 adopted a resolution laying down the priorities for cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs for the period from 1 January 1998 to the date of entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which clearly set out the objective of 'improving cooperation regarding the expulsion of...
Mr President, in my contribution to a secular miracle, I wish to say that, with regard to the harmonisation of asylum policy, the main measures that the Union will be adopting are defined not only in the Vienna action plan and in the conclusions of the Tampere European Council, but are also part of the scoreboard that the Commission presented to the Council and to the European Parliament, and will develop in two basic stages.
In the later, more long-term stage, the objective will be to define a fully comprehensive common asylum system.
With regard specifically to the issue of its legal basis, Article 63(3)(b) of the Treaty establishing the European Community provides for the adoption of measures on illegal immigration and on illegal residence in the Union' s countries, including measures on the repatriation of illegal residents.
The Commission considers that readmission agreements have an important role to play in clarifying and coordinating these policies, and the first Community readmission agreements are currently being negotiated with Russia, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Morocco.
The Commission hopes that, under the 2001 budget, a financial cooperation instrument will be adopted with the countries of origin and of transit, enhancing their powers in the field of readmission and of voluntary return.
With regard to future policy, it is the Commission' s view that in view of the need for an overall and coherent strategy in the field of repatriation, we must aim above all to prioritise voluntary repatriation.
Bearing this voluntary repatriation in mind, I would remind the House that the European Fund for Refugees provides for specific financial measures to support the development of Member States' policies on repatriation, and that, with regard to the way this repatriation is carried out, I share the concerns expressed by Mrs Cerdeira Morterero about the need for us to adopt common minimum standards establishing dignified and humane procedures and conditions for repatriation.
I am convinced that this will be a worthy topic for the Commission' s work programme for 2001.
On 12 December in Palermo, the United Nations is going to sign the World Convention on Organised Crime with a protocol on the traffic in human beings.
There is a direct relationship between organised crime and immigration.
The solutions that the Commission will be proposing are fully in line with the content of the United Nations Convention, which I hope will be signed in Palermo in the week of 12 to 15 December.
Allow me to remind you that, following Beijing and again in New York this year, the whole world reiterated that all these issues were human rights issues and should be treated as such, as violations of human rights.
The Commission approved a pan-European policy to combat trafficking in human beings back in 1996, with particular emphasis on the issue of women, who are the worst hit by this scourge.
Questions Nos 19, 20 and 21 will be replied to in writing.
Question No 22 by (H-0809/00): Subject: Monetary policy and the role of the Commission During a debate in the European Parliament' s Committee on Constitutional Affairs, former Commission President Jacques Delors said that the Commission ought to be responsible for public announcements concerning European policy on the state of the single currency and fluctuations in the exchange rate.
A problem of greater consequence is how to make a single monetary policy compatible with economic policies that are national in accordance with the Treaty.
We mean to carry out this coordination basically through the instrument of major economic policy guidelines, which are applicable in each Member State that approves them and which include not only the major lines of economic policy but also specific recommendations for each Member State.
The aim during this period has been to reduce government deficit in order to achieve a more flexible monetary policy, lower interest rates and greater growth.
We hope next year we will achieve a zero deficit situation.
In these circumstances, as the body basically responsible for economic policy coordination, we in Eurogroup are planning to take our fiscal obligations further and, above all, improve the quality and sustainability of public finances, which will certainly mean an improvement in the Stability and Growth Pact and the tackling of more exacting topics with greater content.
But I do not think you know how to explain this or you dare not do so, and anyway, the fundamental problem with the fall in the euro in fact lies in the lack of confidence in a common policy, because the Member States resist accepting the strategic and political reality of the euro' s actual existence.
In overall terms, the euro effect must be seen as a total, absolute success: we have managed to improve growth, improve the conditions for stability in our economy, we have managed to keep inflation down to a relatively low level despite the risks we are facing, and we are achieving the basic objective, which is to keep inflation under control.
In 1999, we set in motion a number of specific programmes in cooperation with Parliament to publicise the euro as thoroughly as possible.
I always say that the euro will not be introduced on 1 January 2002: the euro is already in our pockets; we have it in coins of different guises, but we already have it in our pockets.
Whereas in 2000 we have devoted more attention to small- and medium-sized enterprises, 2001 must be the year of the people.
You too are receiving this information on the current situation of each plan for changing over to the physical euro in each of the Member States, so that everybody can choose the best practices in one country or another and we can all make as much progress as we can together and achieve the best possible results before the end of next year.
Question No 23 will be replied to in writing.
In relation to Directive 96/62 on ambient air quality assessment and management, the Commission has brought a case against Greece for non-transposition before the Court of Justice.
I am hopeful that this situation will improve with the implementation of other Community initiatives such as the recent agreement on the Commission's proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings.
In addition, daughter Directive 99/30 must be transposed in Member States by 19 July 2001.
This situation is expected to improve with the implementation of Community legislation, for example, in the transport sector.
However, the Greek authorities will have to take supplementary measures at local level to ensure that the new air quality standards are respected.
Questions Nos 25 to 28 will be replied to in writing.
In other words, investments may constitute aid when they finance production projects which are not financed by the networks in the absence of a legal obligation.
Commissioner, could you clarify whether, in this case, there is not a contradiction with the fact that 'television without borders' also helps to produce the content of the works.
In the same decision, the Commission undertook to review the aid schemes in all the Member States on the basis of the specific compatibility criteria approved until 2004, the date on which the validity of the authorisation for the French support scheme will expire.
This bilateral approach simply aims to examine the conformity of the different schemes with the prototype which was established at the time the decision was taken to approve the French scheme, based on the four specific compatibility criteria.
Questions Nos 30 to 59 will be replied to in writing .
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights says in its preamble: 'It places the individual at the heart of its activities, by establishing the citizenship of the Union and by creating an area of freedom, security and justice' , and in its first article it adds: 'Human dignity is inviolable.
I bring in this quotation from the Charter of Fundamental Rights because some situations described in this magnificent report - I congratulate the rapporteur on it - are probably incompatible with this declaration that has just been willingly adopted by this Parliament.
Compared with these statements, reality is stubborn.
Eurostat data tells us that 18% of the population of the European Union live on less than 60% of average national income or, in other words, 65 million Europeans are living in poverty.
Naturally the national poverty rates are varied and different, as are the types of poverty: urban, in industrial slums, in isolated rural areas, etc., or the poverty linked to sex or age discrimination - I am referring, of course, to poverty among women and child poverty.
Today' s worlds, the society of globalisation and the world economy, the society of information and technological development, may also have a not very positive influence and create, or help to create, new forms of poverty, on account of the intrinsic difficulties in this kind of society in opening up access to employment - to me this is the fundamental route to social integration and inclusion - and because of the need to improve employment and obtain higher-quality jobs.
To achieve a Europe that encourages integration, in the words of the Lisbon European Council, requires joint effort and joint action.
Mr President, I would first of all like to thank our rapporteur and welcome the initiative she has taken to engage in dialogue with the Council and the Commission immediately following this first reading in order to work towards ensuring that better consideration is given to the amendments desired by Parliament.
This is not self-evident as this new growth is very unfair and, as we have seen in the United States for some ten years now, may be accompanied by persistent insecure employment, exclusion, poverty and urban ghettoisation.
Growth will take place under conditions inherited from the crisis: a lot of jobs are being created, but there have never been so many insecure jobs, temporary jobs and imposed part-time work.
This Community programme does not aim to take it entirely upon itself to combat exclusion in the European Union, but it must make it possible for Europe to take action in a more determined, effective and coordinated way.
To achieve this, it must be closely linked to the commitment that the Heads of State and Government made in Lisbon in March 2000 to give a decisive boost to eliminating poverty by setting proper objectives which must be approved by the Council by the end of the year, in other words, before the Nice European Council, which will take place in a few weeks' time.
Thirdly, by helping to assess the impact of government policies that are being pursued in the different Member States in order to draw lessons, establish good practices and reflect on good strategies and, in particular, their consistency with other economic and social policies.
It is the answers to such questions that we shall find in this programme, designed to promote cooperation on the part of the Member States in combating social exclusion.
The idea is that all interested and concerned parties should be involved in a type of work in which the individual countries describe the extent of social exclusion and their efforts to combat it.
The Commission experimented with a definition in its consultation document for the Lisbon Summit, proceeding on the basis that the excluded are those who have an income of less than 60% of average earnings in the country concerned.
The governments of the Member States did not accept this definition, which is also rather simplistic and unduly bland.
Mr President, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur for her great commitment in dealing with this report on a programme of Community action for combating social exclusion in which, as many have said, poverty can be an important factor.
We are told that finding paid work is the best way of preventing social exclusion but I would agree with those who have said that we would have to take account of the fact that gainful employment alone is no guarantee of social participation.
If we are going to avoid social exclusion we have to ensure that our macroeconomic policies do not act in a way which increases social exclusion.
It would be totally counterproductive to have policies which undermine local economic development, make employment less secure but more demanding and then have to mop up the casualties through programmes which try to combat poverty and social exclusion.
In spite of the fact that there is money around and in spite of the fact that Europe has never been richer, it appears to be more and more difficult to protect the weak and give the marginalised a proper chance.
All these groups are threatened by social exclusion if very extensive measures of support are not provided.
However, the figures on poverty in Europe, upon which our report is based and which have been mentioned today - the 18% poverty line - are evidence of a situation which is anything but exciting.
To guarantee rights, to establish coordination, to create committees to study the situation and draw up action plans to combat social exclusion, to promote dialogue between the parties concerned and to create NGO networks at European level, and for this we will appropriate EUR 70 million or maybe EUR 100 million.
If we want to find the resources to give to the pensioners with the most paltry pensions, we must have the courage to admit that we need to stop people retiring at 50 years old and, in all probability, create a completely new social security system.
These 65 million people are often overlooked.
If we are to achieve the economic and social cohesion to which we aspire we need not just a high level of employment, but also a high level of social protection.
The benefits of synergy are felt when Member States' measures are linked with Community policies, actions and instruments and with the European Structural Funds.
I regard it as essential to set up a reflection group at European level with representatives of the NGOs, the social partners, the Council and the European Parliament taking part in an annual round table.
The concept of open coordination in employment policy since Luxembourg needs to incorporate exclusion and to be reflected in the Member States' National Action Plans.
In 1992, the Council called on the Member States to combat social exclusion.
We should reinforce this active role as from 2001, in order to give those afflicted by poverty and social exclusion access to economic, social and cultural activities.
Europe has managed to avoid the economic crises that have hit many parts of the world over recent years.
Well over half of the 14 million unemployed, according to Eurostat's latest figures, have been out of work for over a year.
Furthermore, according to the EU's statistical service, 18% of European citizens live below the poverty line, while one-third of those living in poverty are working.
In my own country something like 75% of those who are working and living below the poverty line are women.
The situation seems to be getting worse.
It is imperative, however, that Member States engage fully with this programme and consult widely with civil society to establish ambitious targets for eliminating poverty and exclusion.
Every year, my friends Mr Thomas Mann and Mr Mario Mantovani and I go to the Poor Sisters' institute in Brussels to serve meals to the town's poor tramps, and our hearts bleed and we feel guilty that we are only able to do this once a year: we would like to be able to do it every day but, in all honesty, it would be impossible.
Social security policy is also an important area.
Mr President, Eurostat states quite clearly that around 18% of the European Union' s population live on less than 60% of the average national income.
This represents around 75 million European citizens.
To this we must add the fact that more than 10 million people depend on assistance from social welfare systems, in a situation which is growing worse in most Member States.
This report is extremely important because it aims to improve the circumstances of the most underprivileged, thereby representing one more step towards strengthening social cohesion.
This is an ambitious programme of Community action which, in line with the Commission' s proposal, will be given budgetary appropriations of EUR 70 million and should remain in force for a period of five years.
The beneficiaries of this programme should be the victims of poverty and social exclusion, and we must prevent this from becoming in practice merely a means of financing bodies which investigate the problems of poverty and social exclusion.
Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent contribution to identifying the causes and the scale of poverty, which is an appropriate term for a social reality whose cruelty should not be watered down into a concept as wide-ranging and abstract as social exclusion.
I support the Commission' s initiative to create a programme which meets the objectives of the Treaty' s new social agenda, and which puts the Lisbon decisions into practice.
I urge the Council to establish quantifiable goals, and specific, cross-sector action programmes to combat exclusion, based on indicators which provide considerable information so that closer cooperation can be translated into tangible and effective action, more in the social results that it achieves than in satisfying electoral needs.
I therefore support the rapporteur in stressing that the programme, or rather the programme's role, will facilitate greater social cohesion where the poor and the marginalised are concerned.
As is stated in the amendments which I tabled in committee and which were subsequently adopted, I am convinced that an effective, practical fight against poverty must take place according to a timetable of events and targets.
In fact, a programme with in-built deadlines and checks is easier to assess in terms of quantity and quality.
It must be taken into consideration that over 65 million people in the European Union - 7.5 million of which live in my country, Italy - live on a low income, and a low income in Italy, Commissioner, means a family living on an income of EUR 750.
These figures suggest that the budget made available for the programme will be totally insufficient.
It is a very important and constructive contribution and it supports the Commission proposal for a joint decision of the Council and Parliament which will establish a community action programme to combat social exclusion.
After the Treaty of Amsterdam and some months after the Lisbon council, we all know that a new context has been created for Community action in the area of social policies and social exclusion and social protection.
There is a shift in the political debate at the European level and we can see that there is a strong will to combine social cohesion and competition.
The proposed action programme has a legal basis, Article 137 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, and we had a new mandate after the Lisbon Council.
This programme has been designed to support implementation of the open coordination method which means that it will be possible to improve knowledge, to develop exchange of information and best practice and to evaluate experience to better combat social exclusion.
There has been a very interesting debate on the role of employment in combating social exclusion and the role of the social reforms and of the structural reforms.
I would like to inform Members of Parliament that, on 4 December, there will be a discussion in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on the new social agenda and on what we have achieved during the last year.
As far as the proposed programme is concerned and the report of Parliament, I am particularly happy at your strong overall support for this proposal.
I also agree to highlight the importance of NGOs as well as of regional and local actors as you suggest, and of better reflecting their experience on the ground.
There is a reference to the use of the word "poverty".
Of course, social exclusion is the wider notion and social exclusion has three main dimensions: poverty, discrimination and lack of opportunities.
This is a legalistic problem because, according to the Treaty's wording, the reference concerns only social exclusion and not poverty.
However, I am not able to accept an increase in the budget from EUR 70 million to EUR 100 million.
The budget that we propose is adapted to the aim of the programme and this aim is to encourage cross-national cooperation and mutual learning and not to fund actions on the ground.
Through the Social Fund and through the EQUAL initiative Member States' NGOs can be funded for particular projects for particular actions on the ground.
We cannot accept this proposal because it is against the comitology rules.
The Social Protection Committee plays a key role in the development of policies of the European Council.
Close cooperation between the contact group and the Social Protection Committee will ensure the exchange of views between the Council and Parliament.
On the other hand there could be a link between the contact group and the Commission's officials on a regular basis.
I believe that these proposals constitute a pragmatic response to your request.
For procedural and institutional reasons it is not possible to incorporate them in the text of the decision.
To sum up, out of the 75 amendments you have proposed, I can accept either as drafted or in spirit 48 of them, namely: Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 13, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 29, 31, 37, 42, 46, 48, 51, 58, 59, 60, 61, 65, 66, 68 and 74.
I can also accept parts of Amendments Nos 14, 36, 40, 45, 53, 63, 64, 70, 71, 72 and 73.
It is true that there is a complexity in the whole procedure but all three institutions wish to reach an agreement as soon as possible.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Diamantopoulou.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The proposal for a directive is a logical consequence of the European Union's strategy to double the share of renewables in energy consumption by 2010.
This means that promoting renewables compensates for the external costs of other energy sources, takes into account the positive environmental effects of this type of energy production and, at the same, time makes up for existing distortions in competition.
We need binding targets right now.
The European Union and all the Member States entered into commitments at Kyoto because they recognised the dramatic nature of climate change.
In The Hague, the western industrialised nations are currently again being pilloried because they are only implementing those commitments half-heartedly.
If we define a clear, binding framework for the Member States, then there should be a longer evaluation period for the various support systems required to satisfy these requirements.
We want to convince people in Europe to switch to energy sources which nature renews afresh every day, which do not entail any environmental disruption or climate change, and which make a positive contribution to reducing CO2 emissions.
Even if only hydroelectric installations with a capacity below 10 MW are to be covered by the support schemes, all hydro will, of course, be regarded as a renewable energy source and will count towards achieving the target.
Another vital point that the committee agreed on was the problem of connection to the grid and access to the grid for renewables.
The Commission's general text on the issue of cost sharing in the report makes matters substantially clearer.
This is a summit which intends to slow down climate change and at which the Kyoto Protocol will undergo its ordeal by fire.
In addition, the latest conclusions reached by scientists on the intergovernmental panel on climate change alert us to its alarming effects.
We trust that the directive will help these as yet incipient forms of energy to develop and become competitive and that the Commission will soon present us with a similar proposal on biofuels.
This document is unacceptable because of the way it proposes to treat operating aid for renewable energy sources and cogeneration, since it does not recognise the different degree of competitiveness between these renewable energy sources and conventional ones.
In addition, it is inconceivable that the Directorate-General for Competition should move to regulate this kind of aid without taking into account the results of negotiations pertaining to the directive we have before us, and at the very least it can be seen as a snub to Parliament.
The directive on renewable sources of energy represents a belief in the future and an investment in the environment.
I am going to repeat three of our demands.
After all, on the one hand, this directive is an important element in the series of measures taken to enable us to honour the commitment the EU entered into in Kyoto regarding the reduction of greenhouse gases and, on the other, it is a praiseworthy attempt to reduce the European Union' s dependence on the oil-producing countries.
Needless to say, the controversial issue in this report is that to do with the stipulation of binding target figures.
In fact the crux of the report is whether it makes any sense or not to have these binding target figures.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Rothe, what we need is a clear definition of what is renewable.
I do not agree with Mr Beysen; a liberal should be in favour of the fewest possible distortions in the market.
If we do not have clear objectives, there will be distortion between those countries which do something to promote renewable energies and those countries which do not do enough.
I do not want electricians to cause interference between the two systems and to sow confusion and doubt amongst investors in Europe by short-circuiting and manipulating the system of guaranteed prices.
Not only must guaranteed prices be tolerated, they must be protected by the directive.
That is what politics is all about: making competition possible between the two instruments by protecting guaranteed prices and harmonising certificate-related issues.
Renewable energies is a subject which unites the citizens of Europe at a time when Europe is finding it difficult to get its citizens to support greater integration.
Mr President, the dependence of the Member States of the Union on imported energy is massive and is growing all the time.
Those countries that burn oil or gas themselves should not prohibit us from burning peat.
For example, waste incineration must not be called sustainable as a matter of course.
Over the last 18 months we have seen the price of crude oil rise from USD 9.75 to USD 33 a barrel.
Mr President, Commissioner, we warmly support the draft directive for electricity from renewable energy sources.
It seems a pity to exclude any category which can contribute to the overall achievement of energy from waste - whether it is for small-scale projects or part of the overall calculation.
The key issue, however, that divides us is the question of the binding nature of the targets.
We have grave reservations about this being in conflict with the principle of subsidiarity.
It could scupper this directive, but we also think it is a matter of practicality.
The third point in issue here is the length of support programmes.
For us an annual growth limit in peat is quite enough.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the use of sustainable renewable energy sources must be one of the principle objectives of a modern energy policy in Europe as well, but there must also be obligations and certainties, dictated by common sense, of course.
In this sense, hydroelectric power is important, and it has been both a burden and a blessing for the mountain peoples, for they have had to pay a very high price for their land and have watched local industrialisation processes spring up, associated precisely with the presence of this energy source.
One farmer in my locality with a wind project was quoted over EUR 2 million for a connection and this is clearly a problem that I would like addressed.
Mr President, increasing the proportion of electricity from renewable energy sources is a good move.
The share of renewable energy sources proposed, 22% by 2010, compared with 13.9% now, is particularly ambitious and I am just wondering whether a directive which focuses on the market and makes no provision for parallel measures such as support for research will suffice in order to achieve it.
The directive talks about support systems, basically a premium paid to companies which operate in this sector, and relies on so-called market mechanisms for the final solution.
Since, at the same time, the EU has to adhere to the climatic targets set at Kyoto, it is especially important that we invest more and more in research into renewables.
The debate on renewable energy sources must not become a form of populism against nuclear energy.
The total deregulation of the electricity markets is also one precondition of the increased use of renewables.
This fight represents a pointless or impossible struggle against all that we take for granted.
Sustainable energy can contribute to fair distribution between countries.
The climate conference has just started in The Hague.
Our objectives in the field of sustainable energy are ambitious, yet still modest in the context of the climate problems we face.
Sustainable energy is often associated with small-scale solutions: solar panels on everyone' s roof and a windmill in every village.
Mr President, on a final note, I would very much like to thank the rapporteur for her worthwhile contribution to this topic.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work in connection with this report.
A really excellent proposal has been produced, thanks to cooperation.
Increasing the use of renewable energy can reduce dependence on oil and also create jobs in sparsely populated regions.
I only wish that this directive were part of a coherent long-term energy strategy of the Union.
Instead, proposals related to energy are submitted one at a time and without much consistency.
All new technologies are expensive in the beginning.
But experience tells us from almost every possible field that every time demand increases by 100% costs come down by an estimated 10 to 15%.
Hence, I am optimistic about the future potential for renewables provided the right incentives are put in place.
The good proposal that you have put forward, Commissioner De Palacio - and I should like to pay tribute to your realism as regards energy - and the excellent report by Mrs Rothe are a step in the right direction by promoting renewable energies.
Free competition does not solve all the problems and, more especially, it does not settle the fight against the greenhouse effect or against waste.
I would like to conclude simply by mentioning three problems which have come up time and time again throughout this debate.
The second problem is that of household waste: strictly speaking it is not a renewable energy, but one must guard against sending a negative signal as regards the incineration of household waste.
Finally, as far as the degree of constraint is concerned, I will simply say - because I do not have any more time - that an objective in itself is never constraining: it is an objective and everything must be done to achieve it.
This is what we must do at a European level.
I have just come from an OPEC meeting, and the price of USD 30 for crude oil provides us with an opportunity to make totally new investments in this sector.
Particularly in the field of research and development, it is important that, in future, we should pay more attention to renewable energy, and I especially have in mind gas from landfill sites and sewage treatment plants, for which there is a role in this regard.
I am convinced that in all energy-related matters we should be aware that either we improve our sources or we shall leave the planet Earth uninhabitable within a few generations.
In my opinion, it is fundamental that we should ensure support for these kinds of energy sources for a considerable period of time, thus allowing our industries to make decisive, long-term investments in this alternative energy.
I believe a stable framework for energy from renewable sources needs to be guaranteed within ten years at least; this is a proposal we should all support.
With regard to our targets in this field, we have to listen to the people and go beyond the Commission' s proposal of 21%, which I think is very positive overall, and increase the renewable portion of the total electricity produced.
This Commission proposal is being presented in circumstances which, while in many ways may be negative for many aspects of our economies and our lives, I believe are positive in terms of this particular initiative.
A dramatic increase in the price of oil without doubt starkly highlights the problems relating to our dependence on energy from fossil fuels.
Firstly, we must increase the production of green electricity and then we must deal with issues relating to the market.
This proposal offers a certain degree of legislative certainty and, at the same time, it respects the principle of subsidiarity, by providing the Member States with the degree of autonomy necessary to take account of their specific circumstances until such time as we can see, according to the way events progress, which is the best way to promote the installation of electricity sources.
As you know, the Commission intends shortly to adopt a Green Paper on the availability of energy supply and compliance with the Kyoto objectives and the commitments made there by the European Union.
We believe that these are two fundamental aspects, of different types but equally important.
The European Union, which flies the flag in the fight against climate change and in the reduction of emissions, must not be the first to fail to comply with its own objectives and its own commitments.
As a second issue, the availability of supply is a key element in guaranteeing economic development, the well-being of our countries and of the Union as a whole.
I would like to stress this - as some speakers have done - but I would also like to say that it is not a question of opposing any particular energy source or waging a war against it in favour of another.
Furthermore, renewable energy sources are a factor in the availability of supply, and we therefore have an enormous potential for production within the European Union.
With regard to the amendments that have been tabled, please let me tell you that their number is simply extraordinary and this demonstrates Parliament' s great interest in this issue.
They also show that there are differing opinions on the best way to promote this type of electricity.
Nevertheless, we all agree that in Europe we must speed up and intensify the production of this type of energy and that this requires effort.
In our fight to create a strong and dynamic green electricity market, the first thing we have to do is listen, so that we can learn from each other.
I have noticed that there are two trends of opinion, with opposing approaches, on this issue.
The first stresses the rapid introduction of market forces, while the second underlines the need to establish transitional periods and active public aid.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in its proposal the Commission is trying to retain the best elements of these two approaches with the aim of producing a balanced text, but I must also make it very clear that a priority objective at the moment is the promotion and development of renewable energy.
Therefore, issues concerning the market are of secondary importance.
They are an objective which must not be forgotten but they are not the priority objective of this initiative, which is fundamentally the development and increased use of renewable energy sources.
Amendments Nos 1, 2, 8, 20 and 21 highlight the need for a policy favourable to green electricity and its many advantages and can be immediately accepted by the Commission.
As for Amendment No 5, I am happy to tell you that, given the importance of this issue, the Commission is studying the possibility of presenting a new directive on biofuels generated from renewable energy sources, specifically from biomass, from agricultural products, which will simplify some of the problems which have been raised.
When we start to talk about the targets for electricity generated from renewable energy sources, we first must agree on what we understand by renewable energy sources.
This is of fundamental importance in order to lay the foundations for the future market and some of you have already mentioned this matter.
Neither can the Commission accept peat, since it is clearly a fossil fuel, although it is generated more quickly, but it is fossil nonetheless.
The reference to waste, with no other classification, as a source of renewable energy - as I said a moment ago - is inadequate and contrary to the policy of management of solid waste.
The Commission rejects this part of Amendment No 27, Amendments Nos 11, 54, 55, 61 and Amendment No 57, which are all related to it.
The Commission also believes that all electricity generated from renewable energy sources and used in hybrid power plants must be considered as green electricity and not only that to be used as reserve power.
The annex to the Commission' s proposal includes the indicative targets with regard to the national level of consumption of green electricity necessary for achieving the total quota of 22.1% for the whole of the European Union by 2010, in accordance with the objectives laid down in the White Paper of 1997.
In this context, I must point out two issues.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to suggest mandatory targets but we have to be realistic and, although I regret this, I cannot, at this time, accept this suggestion that you have made, because it would be automatically rejected by the Member States.
This is the first time in a Union directive that national targets of this type are being considered.
These are not obligations which must be fulfilled but national targets.
When the report which must be produced on compliance and the development of renewable energy in the various countries indicates that a certain country is clearly failing to comply with those targets, proposals will be made to Parliament and the Council to correct the situation.
Those would evidently be mandatory targets for that State, so that it complies with them, so that in this way it complies with these targets, which are targets and not obligations.
The task we are taking on by means of this directive must be based on transparent measures, which increase confidence, but this process would probably never take off if we impose binding targets in its text.
With regard to the calculation, our calculation of 22.1%, instead of the 23.5% established in 1997, is a response to issues of credibility.
The figures we are presenting here are not arbitrary or mere whims but are instead a response to the real situation as we find it.
For this reason, we cannot support the amendments which propose legally binding targets - the creation of the committee or the target of 23.5% - and therefore we must reject for the time being Amendments Nos 6, 9, 12, 25, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 50, 51, 52, 67 and 68.
In relation to the support systems, this is the second group of amendments where the Commission considered it premature to propose a harmonised support system, but stated that, if necessary, it will present a proposal of this type in accordance with certain principles.
We therefore support Amendments Nos 36 and 56 and also certain aspects of Amendments Nos 4, 15 and 62, relating to the idea of internalising external costs and compensating for external costs which are not covered in favour of renewable energy sources.
Neither can we accept the part of Amendment No 37 which demands that the future harmonised support system satisfies the need for the internalisation of external costs, since this could only be done through fiscal harmonisation which exceeds the scope of the future proposal in this respect.
On the other hand, we could accept Amendments Nos 10 and 59, which state that investment aid to large hydroelectric plants would only be possible in the event that they contribute to improving the environment.
Large hydroelectric plants, in principle, are broadly viable in themselves and have very high environmental costs.
Amendment No 53 would mean excluding all competitive forms of renewable energy from the subsidies and other advantages and, therefore, the Commission cannot accept its wording.
With regard to the principles on which the future harmonised support system must be based, the Commission can accept the parts of Amendments Nos 37 and 38 which stipulate that such a system must take account of the environmental objectives of the Treaty, the experience acquired with the support systems, which have proven to be effective and positive, as well as geographical conditions.
However, the Commission cannot accept parts of Amendments Nos 37 and 38 and Amendment No 39, insofar as they prejudge the type of system which must be applied or they require that there should be no distortion to the biomass market.
The Commission can accept the need for the current support systems in the transitional systems already considered in article 4(d) of its proposal.
However, while doing so, the Commission is very conscious that the terms used should not prejudice its right of initiative and must not be incompatible with the single market for electricity.
The Commission can accept part of the combined Amendments Nos 17 and 18, insofar as this transitional period of ten years relates to maintaining the confidence of investors and not to the continuation of the support systems as such.
As some of you have just pointed out, wind energy is very close to becoming competitive, but we have to continue providing genuine support for the development of renewable energy.
Nevertheless, for reasons that I mentioned earlier, the Commission rejects Amendments Nos 13, 32, 40, 41, 63 and 64.
With regard to the amendments concerning market forces and competition, the Commission can accept the relevant parts of Amendments Nos 17 and 18 and Amendment No 22, which stress the need to create a market in ecological electricity, but rejects Amendment No 19, which demands harmonisation of national support systems.
With regard to technical measures and the guarantee of origin of ecological electricity, we cannot, unfortunately, support amendments seeking to extend this guarantee to all types of electricity or to electricity from third countries, since that exceeds the scope of the proposal.
We reject Amendments Nos 14, 42, 43 and 44 and Amendment No 58, which seeks to achieve cross-border trading in electricity certificates.
In relation to Amendments Nos 48, 49 and 66, the Commission can accept that, when the time comes, the national targets for green electricity for 2010-2020 should be indicated, but cannot accept those parts of the amendments which could prejudice the application of the rules of competition law in the field of State aid.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Wars and other conflicts have always been a male province, but the majority of victims - 90 per cent - are civilian.
In the Commission for the Reconstruction of Tajikistan, which has 25 000 widows, only one of 26 participants was a woman.
In the initial peace negotiations to bring an end to the conflict in Burundi, two out of 126 delegates were women.
When the stability pact for the reconstruction of South-Eastern Europe was created, no women at all were appointed in spite of their unique experience in peacemaking at grass roots level.
If we exclude 50 per cent of the population, we shall not obtain a sustainable peace.
Women must participate fully in all peace negotiations, in all reconstruction work and in peace-keeping operations.
While formal peace processes are almost exclusively a male domain, international experience and declarations show the importance of women' s participation in resolving conflicts and building peace.
In the few cases in which civil society and women have taken part in formal peace negotiations, it has, however, been successful, for example in South Africa, Guatemala and Cambodia.
The goal should be to have at least 40 per cent women involved in all peace and reconstruction work.
Despite the fact that only a limited number of women have been involved, studies show that women' s participation in the UN' s peacekeeping forces improves relations with the local population, as well as general morale.
Peace can only be achieved if women participate fully in the peace process.
Women are especially affected by wars and conflict situations because of their responsibility for their family, their children and the elderly, but also because they often assume sole responsibility in the absence of their husbands and fathers and accordingly often have to ensure, single-handed, that their family survives.
The Theorin report goes into a lot of detail and repetition, which we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats consider do not belong in an official document.
Mr President, up until fairly recently, the role of women in matters of war and peace was very much a fringe issue in international organisations.
This was also clearly the case with successive UN world conferences held since 1975, particularly with regard to the conflict in the Middle East.
Finally, Mr President, I wish to express my disappointment at what I see as shifty manoeuvres that have lead to the watering down of Paragraph 12 concerning the rights and freedom of choice of women who fall victim to rape and states of war.
Mr President, in common with other speakers, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her very comprehensive and commendable report containing a series of proposals which decision makers around the world ought to take on board and from which they ought to draw inspiration.
This point is very important because this tribunal also wants to act as a pioneer and to be the first to raise the question of the crimes against humanity committed against women.
I hope, Mrs Theorin, that we will take an initiative on behalf of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities to support this action with a view to recognising and making reparations for this crime against humanity perpetrated against women.
Mr President, Commissioner, the participation of women in the peaceful resolution of conflicts is necessary, unfortunately, because of the effect these conflicts have on women' s lives and because women do not traditionally play an active role in such conflicts.
The serious problems which this causes women are increased, because they are then repudiated in their home communities.
Furthermore, there must be financial resources to help women who are victims of this situation.
Women' s participation in the diplomatic resolution of conflicts and in reconstruction initiatives would be of enormous help in achieving these objectives.
This report, which we consider to be important given the nature of the issue it deals with, is, nevertheless, too repetitive and contains certain elements which we do not like, but we recognise that it deals with a real problem which must be resolved and our group will therefore support it.
Mr President, Commissioner, currently, 90% of the victims of war and four-fifths of the world' s refugees are non-combatants, mainly women and children.
And yet, when we look at the participation of women in decision making about the prevention and resolution of armed conflicts or in peace initiatives, we see that they have a very limited presence.
There is the example of the international network of the 'Women in Black' who are against war and violence and have been demonstrating for 12 years in Israel against the military occupation of Palestine, in dialogue and solidarity with Palestinian women.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Theorin for broaching a subject at European level that we have rarely discussed.
Secondly, on 31 October a resolution was approved in the Security Council, namely resolution 1325, which 'calls for broad participation of women in peacebuilding and post-conflict reconstruction".
I think it would be worthwhile, under the circumstances, for the European Union to take a look at what points were raised too, because they have been adopted within the United Nations, and so they must also be taken on board at European level.
These pacific qualities in women could provide an alternative solution, the basis for the foundations of a new civilisation, a civilisation of peace, in which dialogue is protected at all levels and from which war and violence are excluded as a means of resolving differences.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to concur with the many interventions and congratulations delivered by other speakers, and I would particularly like to echo the sentiments expressed by Mrs Theorin in connection with the role of women in the peaceful resolution of conflicts.
That is why I support the full report in its almost original form and we feel that the majority of the amendments tabled by our colleagues have the effect of watering it down and are even downright hypocritical in some cases.
The Greens do not support the compromise text drawn up by our fellow delegates in connection with Amendment No 19.
The report not only refers to the social exclusion of women as a problem in itself, it also rightly emphasises that protection against criminality and personal safety are no longer something that can be guaranteed solely within national borders.
We all condemn unreservedly the brutal abduction of children, some not even in their teens, particularly in certain African countries such as Sierra Leone or Uganda, and their corruption into murderous habits and involvement in barbaric practices such as mutilation and maiming.
These are not soldiers and they should be distinguished from young people in our own armed forces.
The trouble is that when we talk of child soldiers, then some interest groups use this as an opportunity to criticise distinguished institutions such as the British Army and this has happened recently.
Mr President, I congratulate Mrs Theorin on this magnificent report and I believe that all of us, as women, should be happy, since it is we who are going to benefit directly or indirectly from her courageous and innovative proposals and contributions.
Mr President, this report opens up new territory in European policy, that of women' s' contribution to peace.
It is shameful that nobody is here representing the Council.
Mr President, please tell me who is representing the Council at the moment, or the High Representative for the CFSP.
The absence of the Council in this debate is a grave error.
I do not, in fact, consider it to be a serious piece of work. . (EL) Mr President, I think this really is an innovative report, an innovative resolution, one which introduces a new dimension into foreign policy in a very specific manner.
No one can claim that women are more democratic or more supportive of peace.
Women are not people with fewer or more capabilities, they just have a different take on society.
Allow me to refer to some of the basic recommendations in the resolution which require action by the Commission.
These regulations provide for a legal basis for our political activities vis-à-vis third countries as regards action taken by the Union to prevent conflict, deal with its consequences, implement confidence-building measures, promote humanitarian law and support international, regional and local organisations involved in conflict prevention.
The third element is the participation of the European Community in rehabilitating victims of torture.
The fourth example is the important role of women in the peace process which the European Community is supporting in the Balkans and in the Mediterranean basin.
I must say that, as a rule, ECHO programmes do take account of the gender dimension and an effort is always made to include the gender dimension in many of the programmes funded by ECHO for the benefit of other organisations, such as the High Commissioner of the United Nations, the International Federation of Red Cross Societies and others.
Article 4.2 states that, as far as terms of acceptance and access to asylum procedures are concerned, special measures may be taken for people who are especially vulnerable, such as women.
Mr President, what is clear is that we are witnessing an initial stage in which the gender dimension, the participation of women, is starting to become, if not the rule, then at least an element in various programmes.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
If I may make a personal comment, I believe that we would make rather more progress, regardless of what you may think about the contribution of the only man taking part in this debate, if more men participated in debates of this kind.
I have therefore tried to establish, in various countries, but also at European level, how many people - insofar as this can be established, because the people concerned are often working 'on the black' of course - work in this sector.
In some cases they are exploited and ill-treated.
I have discovered over the past few weeks that there is a great deal of interest, both within international trade union circles and within a number of national trade union organisations.
Mr President, Commissioner, domestic work is the oldest work that women have carried out.
This initiative report is very timely, since it deals with a growing need within the labour market.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to pay tribute to Mrs Smet for initiating the drafting of this report.
Because if you believe that domestic work should be recognised as an occupation in its own right, and Mrs Smet says that, and I echo her sentiments, then what you meet with in the first instance is disbelief and a lack of understanding.
The answer is 'yes' , but then we will need a European definition, and the countries, the governments, will have to make more effort to get the issue of illegal work out into the open.
The answer is 'no' .
Any one demanding this is confusing two issues.
But whatever happens, we must ensure that this type of work is established in a legal and social framework which affords those concerned recognition and social security cover, and which improves the quality of the work itself.
We shall nonetheless be voting against the report as a whole in the light of the subsidiarity principle.
The fact is that there are thousands of women who have been doing all these jobs for years without insurance cover or pension rights.
Many women have been able to obtain a permanent job through this work.
Of course, we do have the Commission communication on undeclared work which was recently adopted by Parliament and which could be used as a basis, including by the Member States in collaboration with the Commission, for policies to bring domestic work within the legal economy.
However, what I can say is that the guidelines for 2001 are the first to clearly mention undeclared work and that we intend to work on the basis of the proposal in the conclusions and compile statistics and studies to record the problem so that we can hold a second debate and discuss what the next step should be at European level.
The debate is closed.
But the jubilation accompanying this great victory for freedom, which you gained by peaceful means at great risk to your own freedom, must not lead us to underestimate the enormous challenges that await you: the consolidation of democracy; the restoration of peace and harmony among all the communities living in Yugoslavia; its reconstruction with a view to rediscovering the road to prosperity; its peaceful relations with its neighbours; the return of displaced people to their villages; those missing in action, whose families desperately wait for news; the necessary cooperation, when the time comes, with the International Court of Justice in the Hague, to ensure that what took place can never happen again and, finally, of course, the institutional future of Kosovo, whose wounds are still open, as well as the future of Montenegro.
As regards the most sensitive issues that remain to be resolved, notably in relation to Kosovo, the European Parliament has always hoped that peaceful solutions will be found, in accordance with UN resolutions on the integrity and sovereignty of Yugoslavia, in terms of fundamental human rights.
Rest assured, Mr President, that it is in this spirit that the European Parliament, co-decider of the Community budget, will lend you its full support so that European aid for the reconstruction of your country is truly in line with its needs.
Their accession will be a major step towards the reunification, in an expression of solidarity, of the family of states and peoples that make up Europe.
But now, in the wake of the decisive political turn of 24 September, or the even more decisive shift of 5 October, the major goal in Yugoslavia's foreign policy is to approach in a comprehensive manner a family of nations comprising the European Union and then join it.
It is precisely the European Union's experience that sets a shining example not only for European countries that have yet to join, but also the whole world, when it comes to a direction mankind should take if it wishes to leave behind force, wars and domination as the means to achieve particular national interests.
Secondly, the step-by-step approach Western European countries have taken towards integration is a model we should adopt in the Balkan processes of integration in order to qualify for entry into the European Union.
Not only should we build democratic institutions, a task we have already embarked on, we should also imbue them with the democratic spirit, which may prove much more difficult.
Not only are we to carry out privatisation of our centralised economy, but also create a legal system that would guarantee the freedom of business operations and the entire economic process.
Simultaneously with building the confidence of our citizens in our state institutions, we have to persuade them to trust the European institutions that, in nearly fifty years of their existence, have brought to their citizens lasting peace and prosperity.
The democratic changes that began in Yugoslavia on 5 October have produced at miraculous speed extraordinary results on the international political plane.
Yugoslavia has regained its seats in the United Nations and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, joined the Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe, while proceedings for its admission to the Council of Europe have been initiated.
I believe Europe has both the strength and the will to help us exercise the fundamental right of each and every human being to live in his own home.
Also, we will need Europe's assistance in establishing and resolving the great ecological problems caused by the use of depleted uranium in the bombing of Yugoslavia.
The first step ahead of us in a bid to restructure the federal state constitutionally is to define a framework for the broadest possible democratic dialogue about the character of relations between the two republics.
A democratic joint state makes it possible for Muslims and Albanians in Montenegro and Serbia to live in a single state, and enables us to join forces in building our equally joint state.
Development and local self-rule inYugoslavia is the issue we pay special attention to.
The grave situation in the Yugoslav economy has been discussed at length.
The humanitarian aid to our country that has been initiated is priceless, but we hope that Europe will replace it with investment programmes that would make it possible for us to work and earn enough for a normal life.
Yet it is certain that our chances today are much more realistic than they were a mere month and a half ago.
After all, Europe is a home we all share. (Loud and sustained applause) Mr President, thank you very much for your address which, as you see, has had a great impact on the people assembled in this Chamber.
You talked about the evolution of the democratic process and we listened attentively to everything you said in this regard.
And then, with great frankness, you touched on the major challenges that await you, almost all of those I mentioned earlier.
