&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Tuesday 20 June 2006. &#160;&#160; Ten years after the Dutroux case, Belgium is once again in the throes of an horrendous drama.
Two girls, Stacy Lemmens and Nathalie Mahy, have been murdered.
I believe that we are dealing with an issue for society and that, whether in Belgium or in any other country where such tragedies may take place, we cannot remain indifferent when it is innocence itself that is being murdered.
I therefore believe that this is an appropriate time for us all to observe a minute’s silence in memory of all of these victims. &#160;&#160; The final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on Thursday 29 June 2006 pursuant to Rules 130 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
Do you wish to explain the committee's proposal, Mrs&#160;Roure? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like my report on the framework decision on data protection to be referred to the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
That is why we need more time and why we are asking for the report to be referred to committee and for tomorrow’s vote to be deferred until the September part-session. &#160;&#160; The next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, with the World Cup being held in Germany, I feel obliged to take this opportunity to congratulate the organisers and the German Government on their safety measures – which are functioning perfectly – and, more importantly, on the hospitality being extended to foreign citizens visiting Germany.
I should like to take this opportunity to highlight the fact that the European Parliament's efforts, both on the resolution on racism in football and on measures to combat forced prostitution during the World Cup, which I denounced in plenary, have paid off.
Billions of television viewers around the world are watching and hearing our message during transmission of the football results.
Let this happy intermission be an example to us; it showed us that Europe and the entire world can understand differences in a climate of equality, harmony and mutual respect. &#160;&#160; The uprising in the Polish town of Poznan, the first revolt against the dark dictatorship enveloping Central Europe, started fifty years ago, in June 1956.
The President of the and the President of the Galician Parliament have both sent messages calling for a decision in favour.
As the Community institution directly representing the European citizens, this Parliament cannot close its doors to a form of institutional cooperation that will provide it with means to intensify its relations with the citizens and to give their linguistic rights a European dimension.
That letter has been passed on to the members of the Conference of Presidents where it will be subjected to political analysis at its next meeting. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in all the countries of Europe there is the capital and a large city: there are Madrid and Barcelona, there are Paris and Lyon, there are Rome and Milan.
In Greece, we have our second city, Thessaloniki, the symbol of all the Balkans, a city with a two-and-a-half thousand year history, which bears the name of Alexander the Great's sister, that is how far back it dates, a city which was the cultural capital of Europe ten years ago and which is in a terrible state.
Unfortunately, volunteer crusaders arrived only from Hungary and our East European region, although solidarity should have been reciprocal then, just like it should be today. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to denounce before the European Parliament today's unacceptable decision by FIFA to suspend the Hellenic Football Federation and to ban the staging of international matches in Greece, the country which organised such spectacular Olympic Games and in which the sporting ideal was born.
In its response to a question about the legal framework of professional football, the competent Commissioner, Mr&#160;Figel, told me that the national authorities are basically responsible for clarifying the legal framework relating to the staging of sports at Member State level.
FIFA has passed a decision that undermines this vertical relationship between the European Union and the Member States and is unacceptable.
The procedure chosen is a very complicated one and will make it very difficult for international organisations to help defend the rights of these persons who have been wrongly imprisoned.
In fact, the procedure involves only one hearing a week.
May we therefore join together in saying to Libya that our only concern, now and in the future, is to help young Libyans who are infected with Aids.
Therefore, the vulnerability of Europe and European consumers is continuously increasing.
Therefore, we should welcome the Memorandum of Understanding signed last week, and we can state that at this time, Nabucco does not have any real competitors in terms of increasing the European Union's natural gas supply resources. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is something to which I should like to draw your attention.
That is why I appeal for reflection and for halting this decision. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out a worrying development to you and to my fellow MEPs: the deterioration that I feel is taking place in relations between the European institutions and that section of civil society that is represented by consumer associations.
In accordance with Article&#160;25 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, the 14 members comprising the management board must include four members that should have – and I quote from the text – ‘their background in organisations representing consumers and other interests in the food chain’.
These anniversaries remind us of a task still to be accomplished: the integration of our historic heritage to unite people’s perception of history in all parts of Europe.
At least then, the most courageous gesture of my murdered fellow-countryman will not have been in vain. &#160;&#160; Mr President, 18 months ago I was one of the signatories of the appeal, signed by over 50 Members, which called for Parliament to support the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey.
I also voted in our Parliament for the door to be opened to Ankara.
Even supporters such as myself, who are in favour of enlarging the European Union structures to include this country, believe this to be the case. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to express my deep concern about the situation in the Middle East and my support for the Palestinian people.
Apart from direct humanitarian aid and the call for both sides to act in a mature and responsible manner, we must also set other objectives and analyse the situation, the causes, the aims of each side and the means being used to achieve them and we must also analyse our own political conduct.
I hope that the letters from the Presidents of the Parliaments of Catalonia and Galicia which have been addressed to the Presidency will help to win the respect and support of those people who have opposed what will be a great step forward in terms of bringing more than 11&#160;million speakers of those languages closer to the European Union.
Parliament’s services will ascertain whether those letters have arrived or whether they are still on their way to us. &#160;&#160; – I wish to greet the workers from Opel General Motors in the Azambuja region of Portugal in this plenary session, who are currently fighting for their jobs and for the future of the company, following the threat of manufacturing being transferred abroad.
I therefore feel it is vitally important for Parliament to examine what initiatives the Commission has taken with a view to implementing the following measures: making Community aid conditional on long-term agreements on employment and local development, as Parliament has proposed; setting up a register of companies relocating and benefiting directly or indirectly from public incentives, thereby failing to meet their contractual obligations; refusal to grant or requirement to return Community funding for companies that fail to meet their contractual obligations in full – I wonder how many times this has been implemented; practical measures adopted by the Commission to support the workers and to foster the economic recovery of the regions affected by relocations; and the drafting of a Code of Conduct to prevent company relocations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to another case of discrimination that has arisen recently.
My colleague hired a car from Europcar in Brussels to drive to Strasbourg.
I have myself hired cars for two years in Budapest and I was able to drive from Budapest to Brussels.
That is no doubt a detail, but it reminds you of the case of the Polish plumber. &#160;&#160; We shall find out what has happened so that we can prevent any kind of discrimination and because we cannot carry on adding cases.
I am sure that Mr&#160;McCreevy will have taken good note. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak about a serious incident that took place only a few hours ago: 18 emigrants have drowned while heading for the Canary Islands, and another two emigrants were found dead this morning at the Melilla fence, between Morocco and Spain.
We, in this House, have already previously denounced the Spanish civil guard's use of firearms on immigrants.
We feel that all of this is very serious and we believe that the European Parliament should urgently intervene on this matter, with a view to preventing further deaths at the border between Morocco and Spain. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to a problem which arose a few weeks ago, and which is a recurrence of a problem which also arose last year.
The company , which has operated on the German market for 16 years, was checked during the past weeks by 250 officials.
The Irish peace process is at a critical juncture.
The Irish and British Governments have set 24 November 2006 as the date for agreement to be reached among the political parties.
However, Ian Paisley’s Democratic Unionist Party has shown no interest in power-sharing or in progress and it has been allowed by the two governments to prevent progress being made.
Without such progress, the peace process is in danger of unravelling further. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in his written declaration, the Communist Daniel Strož accuses Estonians of mass execution of Jewish people during the Second World War.
The plant asked the Polish Government for a loan in line with the restructuring plan.
Such a refusal by officials in Brussels will mean that they are acting not for the common good but in the interest of a select number of capital groups and car corporations.
We have, as always, been asked to produce an interim report but, to report properly we need all the evidence, all the studies, all the answers to our inquiries to be available.
Maybe we can think about this question for the future.
Others have already made extensive inquiries in the UK and another, even more in-depth inquiry is due from the British Parliamentary Ombudsman in November 2006.
The UK Ombudsman has had substantial access to many UK actors in this drama.
We all await with interest the second report of the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman.
I will be more than happy to appear before the committee in November.
That means that I often find myself caught between the two of them, but the work they have done is excellent and what Ms Wallis has spoken about today proves that point.
One of the extraordinary aspects of this issue is the fact that those outside the UK who purchased policies from Equitable Life did so believing that they had European Union protection and that the regulators in their own country would protect them.
However, one of the conclusions I have come to is that we need to look closely at the manner in which financial services are regulated, because it would appear that we expect a regulator to do two functions which are distinctly different.
However, when it comes to the crunch – when a treasury may face large claims – does the regulator protect the market or protect the investor?
I agree that it is too early to draw conclusions; however, I would like to make a few observations.
The UK authorities strongly emphasised that Equitable Life had never had any problems with solvency and always complied with EU law.
The fact that the UK authorities always considered Equitable Life solvent also had repercussions on customers and authorities in other Member States.
The UK authorities, who were responsible for monitoring the activities of the company in other Member States too, never informed those Member States that there was a problem.
There seems to be a large vacuum in EU legislation here.
Mrs&#160;Wallis is also a member of the Committee on Petitions.
We must look into the matter very carefully but there is also another matter related to this case and that is the effectiveness of our actions.
Therein lies the problem which we often face, namely that decisions of the European Parliament as well as those of other European bodies are sometimes not as effective as they should be.
Mrs&#160;Wallis proposed in her report that our House should address this matter and adopt a position which would facilitate the work of the committee in the future.
I should like to emphasise one or two things that have been said and look at them from a slightly different perspective.
To give you one vivid illustration, they denied that the Government or the equivalent department had any knowledge of problems with Equitable Life ten years before we knew – and we have proof that they did.
The Irish thought that the British Government was checking on Equitable Life.
If today, for example, a Latvian financial services company started conducting business all over the European Union, it seems each Member State would assume that the Latvian Government was itself satisfied, but that would not necessarily be the case.
I would say to my eloquent friend, Sir Robert Atkins, that, whilst he described me and the rapporteur as roses, we intend rather to be thorns in the side of the system, because there is something rotten here.
I agree with the rapporteur that this interim report is something of a distraction, but an important one just the same, because it will awaken Members of this House to the importance of detail.
Sometimes we get it wrong as legislators and I think Equitable Life might yet prove that.
We have not reached any conclusions yet, but one thing we have established is that the regulators were playing games of ping-pong with policyholders.
In my view, there is a key question to be answered.
What we find out from our investigation will be key for the future.
Everyone tells us that with Solvency II life will be great in the future, but it will not be unless we get the regulations right.
With our resolution today we will reaffirm that governments, parliaments and the responsible authorities in the Member States, and particularly in the United Kingdom, must do more to assist the committee of inquiry in the fulfilment of its mandate, for the principle of cooperation in good faith which is enshrined in the Treaties must be upheld.
The answers given by people in positions of responsibility at the committee’s hearings, however, have been far from satisfactory.
Imagine policyholders in Cologne or in Galway trying in vain to obtain information.
There are two things we can and must do: firstly, we must make the best possible use of the mandate given to us in the committee of inquiry to establish clarity, so that policyholders are finally shown where the faults and weaknesses lie.
Due to the very technical nature of the European Parliament’s investigations into this issue, this Committee of Inquiry is going to take a lot more time to complete its work.
We should recall that, from an Irish perspective alone, over 6500 Irish citizens lost their pension investments either in total or in part as a result of the collapse of Equitable Life Assurance Society.
The committee has already invited a number of key witnesses to the European Parliament, including from the following categories: pensioners’ groups, the Equitable Life Members’ Action Group; British and Irish policyholders, representatives of the Equitable Life Assurance company; and representatives from the Financial Affairs Directorate at the European Commission.
The committee is going to have to invite more witnesses if it is to get down to the nuts and bolts of how the UK life assurance market has operated in recent years.
The committee is also going to need more time to carry out a comprehensive, comparative analysis into the operation of similar life assurance markets in Germany and in Ireland.
The European Parliament is carrying out a very serious inquiry and the Committee of Inquiry is going to need more time to complete its work.
I urge Members of this House to give it that time and to give it every means at the disposal of this Parliament to complete its work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Wallis, for an excellent interim report, as also the Chairman, Mrs McGuinness, who will, I am sure, be a thorn in the side of the regulators and ensure that we can get to the bottom of what actually happened with Equitable Life.
Equitable Life is the world’s oldest assurance company; right up to the end of 1999, even Westminster MPs’ pension funds were still being invested in the company.
The problem is that the cost in real terms of overvaluing the policies meant that Equitable Life paid out nearly GBP&#160;6 billion more than it earned between 1997 and 2000.
From the information and evidence collected for the committee, it all seems very convenient that so many people carrying out the checks and balances of the company came very late to the party: i.e., the present board of management took over in 2000 after the company had all but ceased taking on new business; the Financial Services Authority was not created until late 1999, so it is not responsible for what happened before it came into existence; the financial actuaries advising the UK Government before the FSA was formed maintain that Equitable Life was always solvent, although one actuary giving evidence to our inquiry did admit there are up to six ways of valuing an insurance company.
The committee has heard from many people who invested in Equitable Life and who have lost a great deal of money, which has caused them great hardship.
The committee will carry on its work and we are determined to find out what went wrong with Equitable Life so that these problems do not happen in the future.
As I said before, a parliamentary committee is not a court of justice, but it can draw conclusions from a legislative point of view.
I believe that the lesson we can now draw in this sense is that, at the moment, the principle of mutual recognition, the so-called ‘Community passport’, is not enough.
I believe that that is the most important conclusion we can draw so far. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs&#160;Wallis on her work on this interim report and on the clarity of her proposals; I would also like to say how much I agree with her proposed approach.
I also agree with her on the points that must be examined in the weeks and months ahead.
On the other hand, the results of the investigations may make a crucial contribution to the development of European regulation.
The single market offers advantages for consumers.
That is definitely something that we need to address. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; As a company, Equitable Life was in financial trouble for a long time.
The regulators failed.
In 2001, Equitable Life lost a case in the UK that made it impose exit penalties on UK policyholders, though money for Irish policyholders was supposed to be ring-fenced and safe.
Despite this, two years later in 2003, exit penalties worth about 20% of the value of Equitable Life policies were imposed on Irish policyholders.
The regulators failed.
Since this time Irish Equitable Life policyholders have lost their investment, which in many cases means their life savings.
For this reason, I choose to begin by immediately giving attention to the main emphasis of this report, on which a wide convergence has significantly been reached in the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs.
First of all, we acknowledge the consolidation process in the field of financial services as one which has so far had positive economic effects.
The new environment being formed in the field of financial services will push vital questions onto us as legislators, among them the issue of supervision.
There are many different answers to this question, even among ourselves.
It is also for this reason that the main recommendation of the report is to ask for a committee of independent experts, so that in a period of six months from when the mandate begins, it provides us alternative proposals which we can consider before taking decisions in this field.
Firstly, I would like to express my gratitude to my colleagues in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the representatives of the other groups for the proactive way in which we worked.
I would also like to thank Commissioner Charlie McCreevy and his Cabinet for always being ready to discuss.
Mr President, Commissioner, fellow colleagues, I believe that we have a concrete, balanced and positive report, which can send a strong signal that the European Parliament has a clear vision for this sector, which is of such importance to our economies and to our citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the European Parliament’s Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs thought it necessary, at this stage, to put an oral question on the state of discussions concerning mergers and acquisitions developments around Europe’s stock exchanges.
We as legislators cannot in fact be interested in every segment of the financial market, since this question, no doubt the most fundamental, is solely a matter of strategy for the market players.
From this point of view I believe we must follow the negotiations about stock exchange restructuring very closely because there is one point, Commissioner, and you are as aware of this as I am, that very much determines the state of those negotiations: it is not what happens on the securities market, but what happens in the back office – a question that has been before the Commission for years.
A number of us in Parliament thought we ought to deal with the back office at the same time as talking about the market.
They now have the text on the market and think that competition ought to reign supreme in the back office.
Last time this Parliament expressed an opinion on this subject, it said it was waiting for an impact study before deciding whether a legislative initiative was necessary.
There are nevertheless two points to which I would again like to draw your attention in conclusion.
With such complex issues, it is not always easy to identify the real questions, to take into account all the different points of view and strike the right balance to set the way forward.
I believe that there is a broad consensus on the main obstacles identified, shared by the Council conclusions adopted by the Ecofin Council in May.
The role of the Level 3 Committees is essential, for instance to implement common reporting standards and thus avoid costly and unnecessary duplicative requirements.
Some complex questions, such as deposit guarantee schemes or the issue of lender of last resort, must be re-examined in that context.
The New York Stock Exchange and Euronext have informed us that this transaction would not meet these thresholds.
This diversity must be preserved within the European Union, and I am pleased that we have addressed this point clearly in our report through the amendment tabled by Mrs&#160;Berès and others.
Thirdly, European consumers differ in their cultures and lifestyles and will therefore demand different financial services too.
Financial services is one of the main areas where further improvements are possible and necessary.
The political frontier between two Member States of the European Union must not be a barrier to cross-border mergers or acquisitions.
The decision to merge with or acquire a company should not be a political matter but should depend solely on whether the merger or takeover will benefit shareholders and staff as well as customers and business partners in Europe or round the globe and will thereby make the companies in question more competitive.
On no account, however, must a merger or acquisition infringe EU competition law.
That possibility cannot entirely be dismissed if we consider that even money-market transactions between European parties are increasingly being conducted, to all intents and purposes, in accordance with US market legislation.
In other words, Parliament must not seek to set the specific situation in a Member State in tablets of stone or to change such a situation at all costs.
The report mentions the lender of last resort without telling us what it is or how it is going to work.
So, instead of the blind pursuit of the single market in financial services, I believe it would be prudent not to encourage any more consolidation or cross-border merger activity for the present, until such time as the European Union has a single fiscal authority to take the potentially large financial responsibility when things go wrong.
Fortunately, I think that time is very far in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like, if I may, to agree with my party colleague’s, Mr&#160;Hoppenstedt’s, views and, especially, with his appreciative remarks about the work done by the rapporteur.
Instead, it should use these discussions to emphasise European rules, the implementation of which could give European financial markets a strong position in the global economy.
That is an opportunity of which we must take advantage now. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like firstly to join with all those who have congratulated Mr&#160;Muscat on his report on consolidation in financial services and particularly on his proposal to create a committee of ‘wise men’.
I shall refer primarily to the phenomena of mergers and acquisitions in European stock exchanges.
In some European countries their participation is equivalent to around a third of their savings and in others a fifth.
Furthermore, this is happening at a time when the European Union, having approved the MiFID and when it is going to be applied in the future, intends to complete the European financial market.
That is the task that we must carry out. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to explore the transatlantic mergers of the stock exchanges.
We have seen on the front page of the Financial Times several times and heard from the head of the New York Stock Exchange that it is possible the US Sarbanes-Oxley corporate governance rules could apply to the merged exchange, with jurisdiction in US courts.
So there will be a common holding company under US jurisdiction, but Euronext would not register as a US exchange and would not offer its products on the US market.
I would say there is a role for the bureaucrats here as well as the shareholders.
This overturns the balance in the services sector.
We should not allow the development of a situation where market supervisory authorities in recipient states – and new Member States are basically recipient states – are defenceless against the dominant market supervisory authorities of old Member States.
At the same time, I agree that in order to facilitate concentration, we must help change the tax systems, and in particular the VAT regime.
Take, for example, those prospectus directive amendments which are now being debated.
In truth, we ought to say honestly that we have different views and perhaps then we can try to respect and recognise each other's position.
We need to look at the kinds of opportunities the transatlantic merger might give us, especially in terms of the transatlantic financial services dialogue which, I think, has been the most fruitful example of what we can do together if we really cooperate with the US SCC.
It is not about extra-territorial Sarbanes Oxley rules coming to Europe; the point is also that we can put forward our strategic models, our very good technological platforms and put them to very effective use in the US.
That kind of transatlantic stock exchange merger would be a huge opportunity for regulatory convergence and allow the job that has been done so well to continue in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I only have two points.
The fact that European companies are coveted by operators from other countries is a sign of the confidence they have in us and in our regulatory model.
But beyond that, I believe that we should allow the market to play its role.
She also raised the question of the consequences of the possible mergers.
The market should decide that.
I should like to say to Members of this House and others outside, who always seem to be concerned about outside influences contaminating the European experience, that I believe that some of the proposals on the table at present suggest to me that market players worldwide seem to want to be involved in the European experience and see it somewhat in the other way.
Mr Hökmark and others referred to the regulatory matter.
The question of whether there should be takeovers or mergers of stock exchanges in different parts of the world is entirely a matter for the market players and one about which I am entirely agnostic. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am astonished at the Commissioner’s response.
We are not asking him to intervene in the reality of the markets, we are asking him to play his part in initiating legislation.
Not taking decisions about decoupling or the application of the competition rules in a particular market affects the definition of the framework.
I think we all agree that ensuring competitiveness is not the same as shielding the sector from competition.
In other cases, notably in the field of state aids, the European Parliament has used this opportunity to make its views known.
These contacts have so far been positive.
There is a general acknowledgement that the repeal of the liner conference block exemption by the EU will not cause conflicts of law with third countries and that it is a process that responds to today’s market conditions.
Consequently, this House pledges its support for Commissioner McCreevy’s proposal to repeal the present Regulation&#160;4056/86.
Legal uncertainty about the interpretation of competition rules is, however, something we want to avoid, and I am pleased that the Commissioner recognises this, because the Commission will, not least in the future, need to continue to take into consideration the specific characteristics of this internationally operating sector.
That is why the rules should become clear in future.
I am pleased that the Commissioner has expressed the intention of doing so before the end of 2007 with regard to liner shipping.
I am pleased to say that, by the looks of things, we will, by a large majority, be able to send this powerful message to the Commission.
This House sets great store by the fact that the Commission spells it out that other forms of cooperation, including the consortia block exemption, would continue to apply to this container liner shipping sector, because important operational agreements can be made in this respect, for example in terms of capacity.
Whilst that is a necessity for this sector, this should, of course, always be subject to Article&#160;81 of the Treaty.
That is a logical step because the Treaty already applies at that level.
Since this enforcement also belongs at European level, you can count on our support in this.
Some Members of this House have proposed exempting cabotage, but I will not be supporting that view.
According to Parliament, guidelines should therefore be known in that area too before this legislation enters into effect.
There have been complaints in that sector, and it is unclear to that sector how the Commission will go on from here.
We have exchanged views with the European Commission within the framework of the White Paper, and in a resolution adopted by a large majority the European Parliament maintained that our merchant fleet, in the competitive and rapidly developing international environment, needs a clear framework for manoeuvre which must guarantee fair and healthy competition.
Our economy and development plan are based on competition.
However, it is up to us to predict the conditions and possible side effects and to create a suitable political framework.
To close, I wish to highlight the lack of attention on the part of the European Commission to the international dimension of the matter, both as regards whether the UNCTAD code will apply and how the Member States will be able to change regime, and as regards the lack of detailed information on the dialogue with our partners China, Japan, Singapore and India, as regards their reaction to a possible change of regime.
This is therefore a point on which I expect a reply from the European Commission as to how the European Union will act. &#160;&#160; Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Wortmann-Kool, for her work, both on my own behalf and on that of my friend Mr&#160;Savary, who was unable to be present to take part in this debate this evening and who has asked me to give you his apologies.
As a member of this Parliament’s Committee on Transport, I would nevertheless like to express a few regrets, stressing one point in particular.
Together with my colleagues Mr&#160;Savary and Mr&#160;Sifunakis, I tabled an amendment concerning the legal basis of the text on which Parliament is to vote tomorrow morning.
The proposed repeal takes up only Article&#160;83 (competition).
It in fact determines the procedure applicable and limits the powers of Parliament, since the legal basis relating to competition alone involves a consultation procedure.
These are legitimate concerns, and all the more so because this sector is of fundamental importance for Europe’s future and its development. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, within the framework of the European Union's common shipping policy, shipping conferences have been set up as a form of union of regular line shipping companies with a view to controlling the strategic and profitable sector of maritime transport.
The reactionary institutional framework for shipping, the anti-grassroots policy of the European Union is strengthening the implacability and insatiable lust of shipowners for profit and is creating serious political and social problems in Greece, France, Finland and Ireland.
The application of the anti-grassroots Regulation No 3577/92 has already struck a heavy blow to maritime transport and caused serious problems for workers, passengers and residents, especially in isolated island regions.
Maintaining the exemption of maritime transport conducted solely between ports of the same Member State from the application of the competition rules is of strategic importance to the economic development, social cohesion and national defence of these countries.
I believe that we have worked towards an initiative that will have an echo in the years to come in other jurisdictions as well.
Parliament’s contribution to this process has been significant.
We will respond to your suggestions in the coming months in several initiatives, for instance through information updates on the situation regarding the application of competition rules for liner shipping in third countries, the Commission guidelines on the application of EU competition law to the maritime transport services and a reassessment of other legislative texts on the validity of which you have raised doubts.
The proposal for a regulation on payer information accompanying the transfer of funds is an important step towards our aim of cutting off terrorist funding.
It shows the EU’s determination to participate fully in the international efforts to combat terrorism.
The agreed deadline for the implementation of this special recommendation is 1 January 2007.
Parliament, the Council and the Commission have worked hard during the last year to reach an agreement on the text.
This idea has also been rejected by all Member States in the Council.
The circumstances under which these obligations apply have been restricted considerably, making them a solution of last resort.
Now that an overall agreement on comitology has been reached between Parliament, the Council and the Commission, the adoption of this regulation is an excellent opportunity to put into practice that agreement.
This regulation provides us with means to combat terrorist financing in a consistent manner throughout the European Union.
Commissioner McCreevy explained very well what is essentially at stake here.
The fact is, however, that instead of standing here I would probably be going up to receive the Nobel Prize if I knew exactly how to do it.
The public have exactly the same expectation of our legislative activity.
Nevertheless, I shall hold discussions with my colleagues from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to determine our general approach to the subject of SWIFT in the context of transfers of funds.
At the end of the day, however, my thanks go to the Commission for cooperating in a spirit of mutual trust, and I would ask whether it might also exert some influence on the European Central Bank to encourage it to cooperate in the same spirit as the Commission itself. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the reservations expressed by the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Alvaro, were explained and discussed in detail by both of the committees to which this matter was referred.
This applies to the question of the threshold for incoming funds, which will remain traceable, while the threshold will prevent legal over-reaction against the participating banks on the issue of possible international threshold values.
It also applies to anonymous donations, which are made in several countries, such as Austria, the country of the outgoing Council presidency.
On behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs of the political groups for their excellent cooperation.
We are asking the same questions as the Belgian Government, and we will assist them in their search for answers to these questions, because those answers must be found.
One such method is the use of payment orders for varying amounts of money made both outside the European Union and within its borders.
This regulation will mean that money transfers will henceforth be subject to greater supervision, and banks will have to ensure that for each transfer of a prescribed amount of funds, all information relating to the payer is available.
Even if this results in a slight increase in the workload of the banks, this regulation should not be allowed to reduce the efficiency of payment transactions.
Although initially it appeared that this was one of many regulations – and may I mention in passing that there are around 60 regulations of this type aimed at combating terrorism – although this is one of a number of regulations that we initially thought would be rapidly completed, this has not yet happened.
A series of proposed amendments have emerged, and more often than not the subject of our discussions has been what level of funds should be subject to transfer supervision.
After a lengthy process of coordination with the rapporteur, the Commission and the Council, we finally have an agreed 15 proposed amendments supported by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
Therefore in order to ensure an exchange of information concerning the person making the transfer at each stage of the transfer process, we have to introduce a system which obliges the financial services suppliers to include specific and accurate information about the person making the transfer in the financial transfer documents.
However, it is also important to make sure that the bodies responsible for combating money laundering or the funding of terrorism act in accordance with national criminal law and respect fundamental rights.
The five-year period proposed by the Commission for storing information deserves our support.
Certain definitions must also be made more specific and more complete.
The Member States should ensure the creation of lists of organisations in their countries to which the regulation applies and make sure that these lists are updated and always made accessible to an interested Member State.
I hope in any case that we have made the proposal somewhat more workable for the enterprises that have to use it.
I would question whether the EUR 150 threshold for donations to charity organisations is not rather low after all.
Finally, I should like to add my voice to those who have already expressed their concern in no uncertain terms about the ‘Swift’ scandal that has recently come to light, and I think it is really high time for a much more fundamental debate on how we here in Europe want to fight terrorism effectively without affecting fundamental rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you are all aware, the European Union has already taken a host of measures in connection with the war on terrorism.
In the war on terrorism we must not only assist the competent authorities in combating money laundering but must also go further by enacting measures to improve the surveillance of electronic payment transactions where these are being used to finance terrorism.
For this reason, the authorities must be able to trace electronic payment transactions from start to finish.
We do, however, need a practical solution, in other words a solution that helps the authorities without making unreasonable demands on providers of payment services.
This is why I am in favour of these practicable proposals being implemented for non-profit organisations, including those engaged in educational and scientific activities.
In general terms, I am convinced that this will give us a small but important additional instrument to cut off terrorist funding and to raise security standards in the European Union still higher. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the proposed regulation is yet another piece of legislation which harms, that is to say limits, fundamental rights.
It is good that both the rapporteur and those bodies providing their opinions, namely the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the European Economic and Social Committee and the European Central Bank, have pointed out the serious flaws in the proposed regulation.
To conclude, let us read it over once again and avoid creating a regulation that benefits the financial and secret services.
The comitology procedure under the provisions of this regulation covers a special procedure of authorisation by the Commission for Member States to conclude bilateral agreements with territories or countries outside the Community.
You are aware that the issue is on Parliament’s agenda later this week and my colleague Mr Frattini will make a declaration on behalf of the Commission.
I count on your support in bringing this dossier to a successful conclusion now at first reading, thus avoiding lengthy discussions and probably less satisfactory results at second reading. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Annex – Position of the Commission The Commission can accept the following amendments in full: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 25, 27, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 37, 39, 41, 43, 45, 47, 48, 50, 53, 55, 56, 58, 60, 62, 64, 66, 69, 71, 73, 75, 77, 80, 86, 90, 91, 94, 96, 98, 99, 101, 106, 108, 110, 112, 114, 115, 117, 119, 121, as well as amendments 126 to 140, both inclusive.
The European Parliament calls on the Commission to guarantee that the steps taken to modernise company law and corporate governance are, and will be, in line with legislation in related sectors.
Parliament calls on the Commission to make a decision concerning further measures aimed at developing company law, and in doing so to consider the European social model, especially the involvement of employees.
Better regulation and simplification of legislation are very important in order to increase cohesion and clarity of Community legislation, especially in the field of company law.
We should investigate whether there is a need to consolidate the whole of company law in a single legal document or whether the first stage of the consolidation process should only cover certain areas.
The Commission’s decision to withdraw some draft legislation, in fields where it should already have noted the interest expressed by the companies concerned, cannot be justified by the need for better legislation.
Employees are not only important in terms of contracts, but are also investors and European Union citizens.
Employees should be viewed in the same way as shareholders, as people involved in the company in the sense that they also bear a risk related to decisions made concerning the company.
In the field of company law, the European Parliament welcomes the proposal by the Commission concerning the Parliament and Council Directive on the exercise of voting rights by shareholders of companies having their registered office in a Member State and whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market.
The European Parliament also welcomes agreements relating to matters including the proposal on the Parliament and Council Directive amending the Directive as regards the formation of public limited liability companies and the maintenance and alteration of their capital and the proposal relating to the Parliament and Council Directive amending the Directive on the annual accounts of certain types of companies and on consolidated financial reports.
The European Parliament should always take part in the debate on setting further priorities in the field of company law and corporate governance.
Thirdly, it expects the Commission to put forward a proposal on the European Private Company to fulfil the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The European Parliament deplores the fact that the Commission has already taken a decision to withdraw two proposals: the proposal for a regulation on the European Association Statute and the proposal for a regulation on the European Mutual Company Statute, as well as two proposals for directives complementing these statutes with respect to the participation of workers.
The European Parliament also calls on the Commission to present, in the near future, a proposal concerning the Fourteenth Directive on the cross-border transfer of the registered offices of limited liability companies.
The European Parliament expects the Commission, if appropriate, only to put forward draft legislation concerning the principle of ‘one share, one vote’ following the revision of the Parliament and Council Directive on takeover bids.
Let me thank Mr Szejna and his colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Mr Lehne and colleagues in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for the efforts they have put into this piece of work.
The vast majority of respondents called for the adoption of a Fourteenth Company Law Directive on the transfer of registered offices.
A large number of respondents also called on the Commission to table a proposal for a European Private Company Statute.
In addition, a large number of stakeholders wanted to see more focus on small firms.
Thirdly, when it came to the detail of the measures proposed in the Action Plan in the field of corporate governance, views were split.
You underscore the trends observed during the consultation exercise on the need to have more regard to the needs of small firms, the call for a Fourteenth Company Law Directive on the transfer of registered offices and the opposition to the adoption of a European initiative in the field of wrongful trading rules.
It is too early at this stage for us to respond in detail to all the issues raised in this exercise.
The Commission and Parliament must work hand in hand if we want to develop a regulatory framework that makes a difference in strengthening the competitiveness of the European economy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my special thanks to Mr&#160;Szenja, the rapporteur in the lead committee, for our close and fruitful cooperation.
This is an extremely significant report, because it makes clear from the parliamentary perspective the priorities we still wish to pursue in implementing the rump of the old action plan on company law in this legislative term and shows how far we intend to push the Commission to present concrete proposals in the course of the present term.
In the policy debate, I was not surprised to see that there was broad agreement, not only between the large political groups but among the smaller groups too, on the substance of the reports, which were adopted by large majorities in both the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and, subsequently, in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
This is why we in the PPE-DE Group cannot support the amendments that are now on the table.
This is a good example of a sound compromise.
This is a good report that merits a large parliamentary majority. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to echo Mr&#160;Lehne’s words of thanks to the rapporteur.
We eagerly await the Commissioner’s statement on the next steps in the realm of company law, because, as we all know, European company law is an important element of the single European market and an important instrument for the continuing integration of companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises.
Jobs can only be created in really large numbers if SMEs receive special support.
The amendments contained in this report, which focus especially on accounting standards, are extremely important in my opinion, and I therefore ask you, Commissioner, to give these amendments due consideration. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like first of all to thank and congratulate Parliament’s rapporteur.
In this field, Commissioner, you are really in quite a paradoxical situation.
Since May 2003 you have had an action plan that would enable you to influence this debate, which is taking place in all the Member States.
The reality is, however, that the speed at which the Commission works is such that, during that time, each Member State has been preparing for European negotiations.
So rather than initiate a European process on subjects that are new, you allow the Member States time to adopt their own proposals, which then makes the development of European governance more complicated.
I am a little surprised at my colleague Mr&#160;Lehne’s reaction to the amendments that have been proposed – but he is not listening to me, so I shall have to go and tell him afterwards – when he says that adopting such and such an amendment tabled by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament would dilute this report a little more.
I believe adding one or two useful references for corporate governance to the draft resolution’s 47 paragraphs deserves to be reconsidered.
That is where your energies should be directed, Commissioner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was very pleased to learn that work on updating company law and on the strengthening of corporate governance in the European Union was to continue.
In my work as a lawyer, I have frequently encountered problems resulting from the failure to adapt company law and corporate governance to reality.
I think that the Lisbon Strategy guidelines have contributed significantly to the progress made in work on this subject.
We cannot underplay the role of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the best motor for economies.
It is therefore comforting to see that the Commission has also noticed the need to create the best possible environment for precisely this kind of activity.
I agree that the report we are debating should set out a plan for further action by the European Parliament concerning activities in the field of company law.
The Commission should not delay in presenting a Fourteenth Company Law Directive on the transfer abroad of registered offices of limited liability companies. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, most people support better and simpler legislation and measures to prevent abuse.
Transparency and public scrutiny are often good tools for achieving these things.
Ownership is the very basis of the market economy.
My concern regarding the matter on today’s agenda relates to the rules governing voting rights.
The Member States have different models for taking care of companies’ interest in developing their business, which is to say entrepreneurs’ interests.
Sweden has a model guaranteed in the compromise we reached in April 2004.
I am therefore less delighted about the external study that is to review the rules governing voting rights because experience shows that such studies have a tendency to be rather one-sided.
The fact that objectivity has been included among the demands made of the working party does in fact indicate a lack of confidence right from the start.
It would therefore be appropriate to have representatives of the Nordic system in this working party so that any kind of result that is finally produced might inspire confidence in the people of the Nordic countries.
It is true that this is an own-initiative report, but it should not be used in such a way as to block development after 2012.
If large countries retain their cross-ownership and their rules on voting rights, small countries should be able to do so too.
In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, our group could have quite happily added a whole load of things, but we whittled them down to a few points only, namely those also indicated by Mr&#160;Lehne, whom I should like to thank for his willingness to compromise.
In his report, Mr&#160;Szejna has opted for a wide approach, which appeals to me.
I hope that Mr&#160;McCreevy can agree with Parliament on this and can ensure that this will also play an important part in future dossiers.
I hope that Mr&#160;Lehne will revisit this issue – even though he does not seem to be listening at the moment – to see if he can support those. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to acknowledge a number of salient points in the report.
Among them, the explicit recognition of a European social model, notwithstanding the various national approaches to company law; and the connection between company law and corporate governance, on the one hand, and social policy, including by means of corporate social responsibility, on the other.
The European Parliament is making the relationship with stakeholders a priority, thus rooting companies’ social responsibility in processes of corporate governance and is therefore taking advantage of the most genuine opportunity in this regard.
I am very conscious of the debate that took place on this matter before I became a Commissioner, and Mr Lehne’s advice that we should await the publication of the study is probably best.
The starting point for my report is that while aviation has brought a great many benefits to society, its current growth rate is completely unsustainable.
In particular, its plan to pursue the introduction of kerosene taxes is very important, given the existing imbalance between the treatment of aviation and other modes of transport.
It would also be impractical for aviation to join the general ETS before 2012.
Therefore, I urge colleagues to vote for this report, which will send a very clear signal to the Commission and to the Council that Parliament is looking for ambitious but realistic proposals in this field. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mrs&#160;Lucas and thank her for her report.
The aviation sector contributes approximately 3% to the production of carbon dioxide in the European Union, but this rate is increasing rapidly.
As Mrs&#160;Lucas said earlier, in a few years' time, by 2012, it will have increased by 150% in comparison with 1990, which is approximately just under 5% per annum.
This is precisely why the European Commission will continue its present efforts and step up its efforts in future in order to include aviation and maritime transport in any system agreed for post- 2012.
I should like to make three comments on the points made by the Committee on the Environment and the points raised earlier by Mrs&#160;Lucas: First of all, would it be better to have a closed or open system for aviation?
The European Parliament committee report wants a closed system, a separate system for aviation, either as a permanent system or in a pilot stage up to 2012.
Of course, the European Commission has been passing Community legislation since 2003 allowing the Member States to tax fuel on their domestic flights and, following agreement with another country, to allow tax on flights between the two countries.
The Commission is continuing and will continue its efforts towards third countries, in accordance with what you too said earlier, in order to abolish this tax exemption for kerosene, which clearly does not have positive environmental results.
Without doubt, however, as Parliament and as the airlines themselves and non-governmental organisations have proposed including all flights to and from airports in the European Union, the Commission will examine this approach during the course of the detailed study of the impact this will have before submitting its proposal during the codecision procedure which we hope to have before the end of the current year.
Moreover, this discussion takes the attention away from what this is really about, namely a swift integration of aviation in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU-ETS), and as Commissioner Dimas was right to point out a moment ago, a directive that allows Member States to apply fuel tax to domestic flights is already in force, something which only the Netherlands has taken up so far.
The adverse effects of air transport on the climate are considerable, and are rapidly becoming more acute.
In addition, the EU already imposes very heavy taxes, charges and environmental requirements on other modes of transport such as buses, railways and even cars.
This distorts competition not only between the various modes of transport, but also – and this is a point I should like to make in view of the holiday period in Europe – between holiday regions.
In the region from which I come, representatives of hotels, other establishments providing food and drink, and other tourism enterprises openly complain that, to give an example, the taxes that a Dutchman would have to pay if he flew from Amsterdam to Turkey are very much lower than those he would pay if he took the bus to a mountainous area in Germany or France.
We should, however, be careful in our choice of instruments for this purpose, so that we do not create new distortions of competition.
What is important is that emissions trading should cover not only flights within Europe, but also intercontinental traffic, or at least that which takes off and lands in Europe.
It goes without saying that we want to see a worldwide system as soon as possible.
We should also reflect on the fact that one way of remedying distortions of competition is to reduce taxes on environmentally friendly modes of transport. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Lucas, on her well-balanced report.
Indeed, we in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament support her on many points – with the exception of the one about creating a separate emissions trading scheme for air transport.
From 1990 to 2002, the CO2 emissions from international air traffic that were generated by the 25 EU Member States rose by 60%.
Our growth and our profits must be protected.
Do not take measures against us.
Our message to the airline industry should be this: expand as you like, but find ways of doing it without increasing CO2 emissions.
The next global climate agreement should cover air traffic, but there are good reasons now for extending emissions trading to all flights arriving in and departing from the European Union, preferably based on a separate emissions trading system, to make the incentive for reducing emissions effective.
I myself started compensating for the emissions from my own flights last year, and now I have paid compensation for all the flights I have taken since I was elected to the European Parliament.
Although my group sees the Commission proposal as a step in the right direction, we should not overestimate the importance of emissions trading, whose environmental benefits have not been proven beyond any doubt.
The emission of nitrogen oxide (NOx) is also enormously important, not only in terms of the climate, but also air quality.
That is why we are in favour of including NOx in emissions trading, which is what is already happening in the Netherlands, certainly if a separate system is being set up for aviation anyway.
We therefore support the rapporteur’s proposal which indicates that the EU should take the initiative to introduce a kerosene tax on all domestic flights.
This could prove an effective brake on the tremendous growth in the number of cheap flights against which rail is hardly equipped to compete.
Budget airlines already account for a quarter of European air traffic, which has, above all, resulted in the growth of regional airports.
It is important for the Member States to give us an insight into subsidies that are channelled to those airports with the intention of attracting airline companies.
If we want to fight climate change effectively, all sectors must do their bit, certainly the aviation sector, which is responsible for high-altitude emissions and which has, as such, an extraordinary impact.
Secondly, efforts which companies have already made to limit their emissions should be taken into consideration.
In the framework of the discussion on Eurovignette, the Commission has promised to carry out a study into the internalisation of external costs for all modes of transport.
I should like to call for this study to be completed promptly, so that the results can be made available as soon as possible and we can adopt legislation that takes these results into account. &#160;&#160; As a result of technology developments and the globalisation of tourism and the economy in the past decades, the number of passengers travelling by air has shown a radical increase.
Unfortunately, the number and extent of environmental problems caused by air travel have also shown a proportional increase.
It is important that we make maximum use of the reserves still left in the current imperfect system.
Our mobility should not have harmful effects on our health or on the condition of our environment.
First of all, aviation contributes hugely to climate change: per passenger and per kilometre, the C02 emission in aviation is considerably higher than in transport by train or even by car.
The second problem is that too few people are aware of the major environmental burden that aviation presents.
It is, in any case, of the utmost importance that aviation be brought, at the earliest opportunity, within a system of tradable emissions rights.
This would be an ambitious policy, and one to which the public would be sure to give its backing. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as an important transport sector, aviation is of vital significance to economic development in Europe.
Worldwide and also in the EU, aviation is a growth sector, providing employment for more than four million Europeans.
The growth and competitiveness of our airlines must not conflict with the reduction of greenhouse gases.
The choice of instruments is vital to achieving this objective.
The incorporation of aviation into the Emissions Trading Scheme, as proposed by the Commission, is a better alternative from an environmental and economic point of view.
I am very pleased about the support for separate systems shown by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and I expect the Socialist Group in the European Parliament also to stand up for the less well off. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, it is no simple matter to establish equal conditions for the various forms of transport.
Qualification requirements for crews, the infrastructure of the individual forms of transport, the fuel or energy required to keep things running, unified operating rules for a given form of transport, environmental impact and how to assess it – there are indeed many aspects to consider, all the way from research and development to the investigation of accidents.
It is therefore necessary to require that the introduction of carbon dioxide emission permits for aviation fulfils paragraph&#160;32 of the motion for a resolution in the sense of the Kyoto Protocol, in other words with no growth in emissions compared to the base year, and that this applies to all organisations.
In the modern age, aviation is always in the forefront when it comes to introducing new technical solutions.
On behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, I therefore strongly urge all Members to endorse the report on reducing the climate change impact of aviation, including our amendment.
Let us try to reduce them, Commissioner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, whether one accepts Mrs Lucas’s figure of 4.1 million jobs or the Association of European Airlines’ figure of 7.5 million jobs directly dependent on air transport, we must agree that the aviation industry contributes very significantly to European employment and growth.
In 2003, total emissions from flights into and out of the EU 25 Member States contributed 3.4% of CO2 emissions, which was equivalent to 0.5% of worldwide emissions in this area.
It is not directly included in the Kyoto Protocol.
The industry itself claims that fuel efficiency, direct routing and new technology have already achieved a 70% reduction in aircraft emissions over the last 30 years and that air traffic management, improved holding patterns over airports, and replacement of older planes with state-of-the-art technology in fleet renewal could reduce climate-change impact even further as the number of flights increases each year.
If the ‘Via Baltica’ and more importantly the ‘Rail Baltica’ projects fail to receive special EU attention, it will be a long time before rail and road transport in this region are able to help aviation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to join other colleagues in congratulating Mrs Lucas on her excellent work.
The second option is the improvement of the fuel efficiency of aviation engines.
We cannot wait any longer. &#160;&#160; Mr President, information provided by the International Civil Aviation Organisation shows that the airline industry in Europe transports over 320&#160;million passengers each year.
In accordance with Eurocontrol forecasts, by 2020 the number of flights in the European Union will more than double compared to 2003.
This data shows that the negative effects of the growth of the aviation industry outweigh its benefits for society in terms of technological progress.
We have to try to limit these harmful effects on the environment while maintaining the principle of competitiveness within the growing cheap airlines market, as these airlines have become incredibly popular in Europe.
The system for trade in permits for aviation should cover all flights to and from all airports on European Union territory, regardless of the country of origin of the airline.
If possible, it should also cover intercontinental transit flights passing through European Union airspace. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing we need is a standardised European procedure for stemming the environmental impact of air transport.
Emissions trading in air transport is the right course of action but, from a transport-policy point of view – or from my point of view – the main instruments contained in the Lucas report are wrong.
Firstly, we need aviation to be included in the existing EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
It is in this context now that the call in this report for the EU to show leadership in the fight against climate change by taking regional and early action reminds me too much of an attitude for which at present we are paying rather a high price.
However, there is sufficient evidence in the public domain that appears to contradict what is called for as a solution in this report.
We must be careful in the messages that we send out, not only to the aviation industry, which contributes greatly to all our countries’ economies, but also to our citizens, who I believe have the right to continue to enjoy affordable air travel, whether on business or for pleasure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I thank the Members of Parliament for their very important speeches and for their contribution to this evening's debate.
I should also like to say that there is excellent cooperation between the European Union and the International Civil Aviation Organization.
On the question of climate change, in particular, we must take action at European Union level, including for the simple reason that the European Union agreed in the Sixth Community Action Programme that it must determine, propose and take measures if the International Civil Aviation Organization failed to propose the relevant measures by 2002.
The European Union accounts for approximately 50% of total carbon dioxide emissions by international aviation, compared with Annex I countries, in other words countries which have restrictions in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol.
Finally, I should also like to refer to the concerns expressed to the effect that our proposal will put European companies at a disadvantage, compared with companies in third countries.
This means, therefore, that airlines in the European Union will be treated in exactly the same way as their foreign competitors.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased with this Parliament's opinion report aimed at seeking alternatives and measures to alleviate the negative effects of aviation on the environment and its impact in terms of climate change.
The issue concerns important environmental legislation which applies to access to environmental information and public participation in decision-making.
Openness and transparency are the lifeblood of democracy and a fundamental element in our own safety.
As these three Aarhus pillars were now being extended to the EU’s own institutions, that brought with it some legal challenges which set this regulation apart from earlier ones, those which were targeted at Member States.
Parliament’s amendments contained technical and legal errors, which was one factor in the reason why our Conciliation Committee was closer to the view of the Commission and the Council than was still evident after the second reading.
Parliament, after the second reading, would have liked to rely on Directive 2003/4/EC, intended for the Member States, as far as exceptions to access to EC environmental information were concerned.
Legally, however, it would have been impossible, as the directive is only intended for the Member States.
The final solution was to apply Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001/EC, which deals with the public scrutiny of documents held by the EC institutions and which is tailor-made for this very purpose.
The other difficult area where we abandoned the view reached during the second reading was the right for the public to participate in the drafting of action plans and programmes funded by the EU institutions.
Some understood that the amendments related to access to information, although the question was about the right to participate.
This role, now created for them by the regulation, is important for the Union.
Although perhaps we did not always agree, for example, on the scope of the rights accorded them, I appreciate and respect their desire to genuinely be involved in drafting better environmental legislation in the EU.
If the regulation is to work in practice as well as the two earlier directives, it will raise transparency in the EU to a level which will serve both our common inclinations and the public in the best way possible.
Similarly, I would like to thank the Commission’s representatives for their excellent levels of cooperation, which I have enjoyed throughout the entire Aarhus process since it began in 2000. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs&#160;Korhola, rapporteur for the Aarhus Convention, and Vice-President Vidal-Quadras, who chaired the conciliation committee with the Council, for the excellent results achieved during conciliation.
In that way we will increase our objective of transparency in the environmental measures adopted at Community level.
Finally, as well as repeating that I hope this agreement will be approved tomorrow and be implemented as soon as possible, I hope that the Community institutions and bodies will recognise that its effective application will benefit everybody and that they will act on that basis.
This is a legal tool that will in many cases help us to preserve the environment. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I too should like to congratulate the rapporteur and indeed everybody involved in reaching an agreement which has produced a joint text on this important regulation concerning the Aarhus Convention.
I believe this regulation certainly helps to put flesh on the bones of Aarhus.
However, I am pleased that, in this House at least, we are going in the right direction even if some countries, like my own, are dragging their heels. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the EU has problems with its image.
The Aarhus Convention, governing the conditions for participation by NGOs in the environmental legislation process, has addressed this issue.
Please put pressure on the Irish Government to finally ratify Aarhus, even at this late date, and see the people as an ally rather than an enemy in the effort to protect the environment. &#160;&#160; Over the past years we have heard at various European forums about how important it is for the European Union to be close to its citizens and to make the operation of its institutions more transparent.
The adoption of the Aarhus Convention by the European Union is a significant step in this direction.
Environmental protection is the area in which the general public probably shows the highest level of interest in the performance of our institutions, and apart from having access to information, it also wants to participate in decision-making.
Moreover, Europe should also provide an example to Member States in this respect, as we have heard earlier.
Thank you very much, and congratulations to my colleague Mrs Korhola for her excellent work. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0231/2006) by Johannes Blokland, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators and repealing Directive 91/157/EEC [PE-CONS 3615/2006 – C6–0154/2006 – 2003/0282(COD)]. &#160;&#160; .
Fourthly, the directive requires all Member States to set up an effective collection system.
I take it as read that the Commission will be attentive in this respect and will present a proposal to Parliament in due course. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to congratulate the representatives of the European Parliament on the discussions held in the conciliation committee last May.
The European Commission supports the outcome of the procedure and we recommend that Parliament vote in favour of the excellent results achieved by its negotiating team. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am much obliged to the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Blokland, for his committed work.
I am pleased that we have managed to find a solution in committee at second reading.
I agree with all the other proposals Mr&#160;Blokland has presented, however, and am glad that agreement has been reached between all three institutions. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I too would like to begin by thanking Mr&#160;Blokland.
You have seen eye to eye with the Socialist Group in the European Parliament for a large part of the way.
It may also be possible not to let some of these batteries slip through the system, and for the environmental damage therefore not to be as large – if, that is, the system works.
All in all we have to say that it is an important area that we are now legislating for at Community level.
The wording proposed by the Conciliation Committee not only allows ambitious rules and targets to be retained – especially in terms of collection and recycling – but also allows account to be taken of reality and of the efforts being made by the manufacturers of accumulators, especially for industrial use.
This guarantee of equivalent effectiveness in terms of collection seems to me to be crucial for a flexible but non-permissive system.
I therefore invite you to vote in favour of this text, and I thank our rapporteur for the quality of his work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, thank you, Mr&#160;Blokland, for a long fight that eventually led to an acceptable result.
I wonder what EU citizens would say if they knew that a majority of their governments were fighting against the consumers’ right to know the capacity of the batteries they buy.
You have done a good job, and I shall vote in favour of the report. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
