Commemoration of the Holodomor, the Ukraine artificial famine (1932-1933) (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the commemoration of the Holodomor famine in Ukraine (1932-1933).
I should like to take this opportunity to welcome to the European Parliament a delegation from Ukraine headed by the Ambassador. (Applause) Madam President, honourable Members, I am honoured to take part in this debate to commemorate the great famine of 1932 and 1933, which was one of the great tragedies of the 20th century.
After many years of silence, testimonies of the suffering call for our attention, together with the accounts of many survivors who found themselves caught up in that terrible event.
The story of the great famine illustrates not only the tragedy of the Ukrainian people, but also reminds us again of what human beings are capable of.
Their sacrifice reminds us never to accept that any state should subjugate individuals, whatever the cause or purpose for what takes place.
At this historic time, we must all lend our political support and encouragement to the independence of the judiciary.
The European Union will continue to support Ukraine in these important efforts.
I would like to add, as Commissioner for Transport, that as regards trans-European networks, we should remember that these can serve not only to strengthen our internal market, but also as a tool to extend the frontiers of Europe, to open Europe up to new horizons and to strengthen links with near and friendly countries which border the European Union, like Ukraine.
Only if this goal is reached will the sacrifice of so many innocent victims not have been in vain.
But some countries still seek to hide from their history.
The purpose of this resolution tonight is to express our horror at the Holodomor, the period of deliberately engineered famine in 1932-1933.
This resolution does not contain the word 'genocide', because other political groups in this House do not think the strict definition of that term should be applied to the Holodomor.
The war crimes court for the former Yugoslavia, which is soon to try Radovan Karadzić, shows that these principles are as important today as ever.
Yesterday this House voiced its strong support for bringing the leader of the Lord's Resistance Army in Uganda, Joseph Kony, before the International Criminal Court.
In other words, we are history-builders and not historians.
We did that, however, because we understood that solidarity with the Ukrainian people and their sufferings could mobilise Ukrainians in their efforts to unite their country, to democratise it, modernise it and bring it inside its natural family which is the European Union.
Historical condemnation of crimes cannot provide reparation for the victims thereof or their heirs, but it is moral compensation.
We must proclaim today that there is no state rationale, no social objective and no ideological principle that can excuse a crime such as the Holodomor, the artificial famine which caused so much suffering for so many innocent people in a crazy attempt to destroy the moral dignity, national pride and biological existence of the great Ukrainian people.
The discussion today should not only remind us that we must always stay united against totalitarianism, but also that the present Ukrainian generation, on behalf and in the memory of the Holodomor victims, must eliminate from their country and their history all authoritarian instincts, inclinations and practices.
That is one of the best ways in which they could become members of the European Union, and, if they choose to take that way, it means that our debate this evening has not been futile.
Madam President, the Holodomor, or the artificial famine in Ukraine, is one of the largest-scale crimes committed in Europe during the 20th century.
Unfortunately, the Holodomor, or the great famine, is an event in history that is still practically unknown in many countries of Western Europe.
The famine in Ukraine has been recognised as genocide by the governments or parliaments of 26 countries, including Poland.
I would like to use this opportunity to extend my deepest sympathies to the Ukrainian people, which had to undergo this huge tragedy.
Madam President, I have chosen almost the same introduction to my speech as Mr Tannock.
We believe that proper commemoration of the victims depends on our knowing about this tragedy, this massive crime on the part of the Soviet regime.
The famine was not a natural disaster, but the result of Joseph Stalin's genocidal plan by which, having dealt with the Ukrainian intelligentsia, he aimed to destroy the rural population of Ukraine.
Some 10 million men, women and children died as a result of this genocide.
Today we cannot keep quiet, and it is our duty to honour the memory of the victims of the Holodomor.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, I speak to you as someone who has spent many years of his life in Ukraine, who has lived there and who is therefore, naturally, very emotionally involved.
Firstly, because this resolution links this catastrophe and this crime to Ukraine and people of Ukrainian nationality alone.
Secondly, this resolution recognises the Holodomor as genocide.
I am convinced that this was the main reason for the declaration by the Israeli ambassador to Ukraine, Mrs Kalay-Kleitman, who stated in an interview with the Serkalo Nedeli that Israel cannot recognise the Holodomor as an act of ethnic genocide.
EUR 14 billion a year are needed for agriculture in development countries in order to achieve the Millennium Goals and halve the number of hungry people by 2015.
In 2007, this figure stood at 923 million people.
Holodomor refers to the death by starvation of 6 to 7 million people, 3.5 million of whom were in Ukraine, 2 million in Kazakhstan, and hundreds of thousands in the North Caucasus by the Volga and in Western Siberia in 1932 and 1933.
Holodomor stands for the forceful despoilment of the Ukrainian farming population of their cereal harvest by Stalin and his henchmen as effective Bolshevist means of educating the people in the country in the spirit of forced collectivisation of agriculture.
Today, we know that he failed in his demonic plan. (FR) Madam President, from Lenin's Soviet Russia to Kim Il-Sung's present-day North Korea, via Mao's China, Mengistu's Ethiopia and Pol Pot's Cambodia - and this list is, unfortunately, not exhaustive - it can be said that famine is consubstantial with communism.
This is what is still happening today in North Korea.
Article 6 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court defines genocide as the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group, as such, and also, I quote, 'deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part'.
On 28 November 2006, the Ukrainian Parliament described the Holodomor as a genocide.
The latter does not, moreover, call into question the honour of the Russian people, who were also victims of communism, but it does denounce the horror of this totalitarianism, which has killed 200 million human beings worldwide, and which we are, it must be said, denouncing very belatedly. (ES) Madam President, today's debate is intended to commemorate (meaning to keep alive in our memories) the sacrifice of so many millions of people who fell victim to a demographic disaster, unprecedented in peacetime, due to Stalin's policies.
The result, as highlighted by all the speakers in this debate, was the deaths of between six and eight million people in the whole of the Soviet Union, and between five and six million in Ukraine.
However, Madam President, and this too has been said in this House, the most important thing is to look to the future and ensure that the children being born today in the great country of Ukraine have to resort to newspaper libraries and history books to discover the horror experienced by previous generations in the Holodomor. (PL) Madam President, today the European Parliament is marking the 75th anniversary of the mass famine in Ukraine, one of the greatest crimes against humanity of the 20th century.
The famine in Ukraine, the Volga region, Kazakhstan and other parts of the Soviet Union in 1932-1933 was not the result of natural causes, but of Stalin's system of wielding power.
The Rozstriliane Vidrodzenniya ('Firing-squad Renaissance') symbolised Ukraine in the 20th century.
The mass famine in Ukraine, as well as in other regions of the Soviet Union, is a fundamental research task for historians, political analysts and scholars of totalitarianism.
The great famine cannot be the subject of ideological manipulation or other nationalist policies.
I would like to use the occasion of this debate to remember the great works of the Polish emigré, Jerzy Giedroyc, whose Kultura published in Paris brought understanding between Poland and Ukraine.
I would like to hold up the Ukrainian language anthology published in Kultura in 1957 concerning the persecution of Ukrainian writers, Rozstriliane Vidrodzenniya, which was edited by Lavrinenko, and the Polish-Ukrainian chronicles from 1952 written by Professor Bohdan Osadchuk in the same journal, to the European Parliament as an example of Europe working together to overcome historical fatalism, and to create agreement between the nations regarding a future democratic community. (LT) Ladies and gentlemen, the great Holodomor famine which occurred in Ukraine is an episode in the history of Europe which we must not forget.
I am convinced that the famine must be recognised as an act of genocide implemented by the Soviet Union against the Ukrainian nation.
Thirdly, the Holodomor is just one of the crimes of communism, communism whose crimes inevitably must still be heard at a second Nuremberg. (DE) Madam President, the European Union, together with numerous other countries, has recognised the catastrophe known as the Holodomor which took place in Ukraine in 1932-1933 as a crime against the Ukrainian people.
Even the United Nations passed a resolution at its General Assembly in 2007 commemorating the victims of the Holodomor and condemning the regime.
The Stalinist regime in the Soviet Union artificially provoked a food shortage to force Ukraine - but not only Ukraine - into its planned agricultural economy.
This means that the Holodomor was not a natural disaster; it was planned by man and executed in cold blood.
This resulted in the famine known as the Holodomor and the deaths of millions of inhabitants of a country which had previously been a breadbasket.
This kind of moralising and selective memory among the European socialists shows that historical materialism has been superseded by hysterical relativism.
The problem is that here we are not talking about the truth of the Holodomor, but only voicing the truth about our own selves.
Genocide is genocide, regardless of whether it was perpetrated by Hitler or Stalin, or of how the present Russian government sees it.
Just for the benefit of this gathering, I would like to add that of the 100 000 POWs of General Paulus' army sent to Siberia following Stalingrad, only 5 000 survived up to 1955.
The victims of this campaign were mainly Ukrainians, but we must pay tribute to all the victims, regardless of nationality.
Therefore, I say that we should pay tribute, but let us also try in these debates to show some respect for historical facts.
The European Parliament recognises Ukraine's European ambitions.
By adopting this resolution, we are sending the message that not only Ukraine's past, but its future is also inseparably bound up with that of Europe.
This crime was completely cynical.
The decisions about the 2006 gas war between Ukraine and Russia were once again taken in Moscow.
Contemporary Russia, through its conception of foreign policy, is clearly demonstrating that it is recapturing its position in its part of the world.
There cannot be first-class Nazi victims or second-class victims of Communism just because Europe still lacks an integrated approach to all totalitarian regimes and has hesitated to take a concrete stand on crimes that took place in the eastern part of the continent.
We have a duty to know what happened under Stalin just as well as we know what happened under Hitler.
We need to extend not only our solidarity to the Ukrainian nation and, indeed, to all nations that have suffered under totalitarian crimes, but also to pass a moral verdict.
Only in this way can we reach the goal of these debates: to guarantee that this monumental, destructive disregard for human lives and dignity will never be repeated in any part of Europe.
It is telling enough that official population statistics for Ukraine put the population at well over 31 million in 1926, while in 1939, despite significant natural population growth, the population was only 28 million.
Administratively-ordered food requisitions, accompanied by bans on food imports from other regions, resulted in famine in the Volga region, the Kuban and the northern Caucasus.
Let us therefore establish a European Institute of the European Conscience and let us also celebrate 23 August as the Day for Victims of All Totalitarian Systems.
At the Madrid OSCE ministerial meeting in November 2007, 30 countries associated themselves with Ukraine's statement commemorating the 75th anniversary of the Holodomor.
European integration must continue to be based on a readiness to come to terms with the 20th century's tragic history.
This present European Parliament resolution makes an important call on countries originating from the Soviet Union to provide full access to archives on this tragedy for comprehensive scrutiny in order to unveil and fully investigate the causes and consequences of this famine.
I add my voice to this expression of sympathy to the millions of Ukrainians that suffered this calamity and, in particular, to the relatives of those who died as a result of this artificial famine. (SK) My father, Štefan Kányai, who spent over ten terrible years in Russian gulags in the Urals, Karaganda and Kazakhstan, often said to me: 'There are witnesses still living who saw and remember Stalin's genocide, a mass murder that was committed without weapons.
Evil still exists and must be confronted. (PL) Madam President, it was only after the collapse of the eastern bloc that we started to become aware of the horrifying truth about what had gone on in Ukraine and other parts of the Soviet Union under Stalin.
The great famine in Ukraine in 1932-1933 is a historical fact which was denied by the communist authorities throughout the existence of the Soviet Union.
Although many years have passed since the Holodomor, we are far from knowing exactly how many people were killed by Stalin's policies.
I would like to emphasise that any acknowledgment of the great famine as genocide or exposing Stalinist totalitarianism, is not directed against the Kremlin, as it is often misrepresented.
The European Union, as an international institution which is so dedicated to human rights, should clearly and unambiguously state its position.
If we want to honour the memory of the victims with dignity and as befits them, we should adopt a resolution which clearly shows the historical truth, and expresses the solidarity and sympathy of the European Union. (PL) Madam President, today it is hard for us to imagine what mass starvation means.
What should we call this crime that was committed 75 years ago?
No further words are needed because those Members that have spoken have done so in a convincing and worthy manner.
I would like to conclude this debate, Madam President, by reading a few words penned by the great writer Vasilij Grossman, who described the most tragic moments of the Holodomor in his novel Forever Flowing.
I do not know who was the last to die.' Nous n'oublierons jamais.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 23 October.
Written statements (Rule 142) , in writing. - (HU) It is my conviction that in addition to deepening integration, the European Parliament must also strive systematically to confront the darkest eras of our common history.
The arguments surrounding the famine that cost some 3 million human lives are a good illustration of the fact that to this day, that period of history has still not fully been addressed.
We must state explicitly that the Ukrainian tragedy was the direct consequence of a policy of terror raised to state level.
In my view, all dictatorships, whether we are talking about the cruelties of National Socialist or Communist systems, spring from the same source.
The creation of a European research institute and memorial to the history of dictatorships could play a significant role in this process.
in writing. - (PT) It was 75 years ago that the Stalinist machinery set in motion one of the worst crimes that Europe has ever known: the Holodomor, the great famine which took the lives of over three million Ukrainians.
Having been deprived, as they still are, of important defining elements of their collective identity, Ukrainians were deliberately deprived of food, in a cruel demonstration of 'real socialism' and in a context of forced collectivisation and sovietisation campaigns conducted by one of the most homicidal regimes in history.
Ukrainians, together with all other Europeans, are today remembering the Communist brutality, tyranny and violence that rained down on them and that constituted, under international law, a clear case of genocide.
I salute all Ukrainians, particularly those who live and work in my country, Portugal.
