Legislative and work programme of the Commission for 2007 (debate) The next item is the debate on the legislative and work programme of the Commission for 2007.
At the same time, we have renewed our commitment to social solidarity, including the setting-up of the Globalisation Adjustment Fund, a useful shock absorber for the powerful motor of globalisation.
This will also reinforce our efforts in areas where we have already exerted leadership, notably in the debate on a future international climate change regime.
And we have successfully steered Romania and Bulgaria towards European Union membership.
We have proposed the two new Commissioners and allocated the portfolios.
Intercultural aspects are more and more important in the Europe of today.
We have also laid the groundwork in many other areas that concern us all - sustainable development, maritime policy, and energy efficiency, to name just a few.
It is focused on a smaller list of 21 strategic initiatives.
In parallel, we will present an action plan in two months' time defining priority areas for action.
We will put forward options for a European Union climate change policy and perspectives for international cooperation post-Kyoto.
European public policy can have a fundamental impact on the way people live their lives.
A key target for 2007 will be the defence industries and markets, which have been fragmented for far too long.
The year 2007 will also mark a turning point in our search for an institutional settlement.
Following my initial proposal, I am happy to see that everything is now moving in the direction of having a joint statement, a statement by the Member States, the European Commission and the European Parliament, thus showing that the commitment to the European Union is today a shared commitment of the main political institutions of our Union.
This is important, because Europe needs an institutional settlement.
We need the constitutional treaty because, as a European Union, we need to be more effective in our decision-making, more coherent in our external action and more transparent and democratic in our working.
With the help of this Parliament and the Council, these things have been dealt with, put behind us, or turned around: we now have the financial perspectives; we now have the revised Stability and Growth Pact.
The 2007 Work Programme builds on these new foundations.
So we can conclude the work on decisions that were already in the pipeline but also launch new, very important, projects for the work of Europe, such as energy policy.
To show our commitment to practical results and to working hard for a stronger European Union, this can be a fitting birthday present for the 50th anniversary of Europe, a birthday present for Europe and all its citizens. (Applause) - Broad policy guidelines on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioners, I should like first of all to congratulate the European Commission, which is presenting us with a much more political programme today and which, for the first time, is going all out for simplification by presenting a reduced number of priority sectors in its legislative and work programme for 2007.
I am thinking, for example, of the creation of new agencies in order to solve this or that problem.
In order to improve European competitiveness, we shall ensure that there is a reduction in all forms of bureaucracy and that any superfluous legislation is done away with.
In this area, it is important to involve the European Parliament more and to improve the ex post evaluation of the measures adopted.
Our group welcomes, moreover, the Commission's initiative in making communication one of its strategic objectives.
If that is the line that the Commission is taking, if that is the spirit motivating your working programme, then you have our backing.
I have read, Mr President of the Commission, that you want to give the Romanian candidate the job of Commissioner for Multilingualism.
That would make it all the clearer what you intend to achieve by it, and then - or so I could well imagine - you could get even wider support for this proposal in this House.
In the course of this debate, my colleagues will be discussing the various policy areas, energy, climate change and legal policy among them, but I would like to take this opportunity to give you an idea of what overall impact your programme has had on our group.
We very definitely see ourselves as having the role of accompanying you in your work in a spirit of constructive criticism, and that, of course, means cooperating with you, but with an emphasis on constructive criticism.
Nor can we understand why it is that there is not one word in the whole document about humanitarian aid and help with development, areas in which the EU is the biggest player on earth, so why are they not mentioned?
Our view is that what innovation needs most of all is freedom and the right conditions rather than institutions and more support measures, which tend to take us in the wrong direction.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, in drafting these few lines on your work programme, I wanted, in the brief time allotted to me, to draw attention to the draft Constitutional Treaty's motto, 'Unity in diversity', as I think that, in the current international and European political context, we have more need of unity than of diversity in the European Union.
Of a number of areas to which the strategic priorities shared by ourselves apply, I want specifically to quote the example of the subject on which my group has probably worked most during the last two and a half years, namely that involving the climate, energy and transport.
The fact is that these problems and conflicts are not at the heart of the work programme, and it is not on them that the Commission is concentrating its efforts.
There is a second priority area that I would like to address.
Perhaps I might make bold to ask that someone might tell me of just one deficit within the European Union that this European internal market in weaponry, thus created and brought in through the back door, might actually remedy, and also inform me as to who actually authorised the Commission to develop one.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I would like to welcome President Barroso and the Members of the Commission to the Chamber.
In particular, the fact that we live in such a rapidly changing world brought about through innovation and technology requires a more rapid response from the European Union to ensure that we can defend as best as possible the interests of all EU citizens.
I would, however, like to make three points.
Firstly, with regard to the Lisbon Agenda, there is still so much lacking in terms of the necessary legislative framework that must be put in place to make Lisbon a reality.
The whole area of innovation, research and development is one that we talk about a lot, but in which concrete legislative action to protect design, patents and copyright, and to allow for proper investment in research and development, in financial terms, is still lacking.
The Commission is talking about a harmonised taxation system, but wherever harmonised taxation has taken place it has been contrary to good competition, economic growth and employment growth.
Take Kosovo, Africa and other developments around the world, where the European Union has responded positively to putting peacekeepers and police forces in the field and to promoting other constructive developments on the ground.
That is, of course, what the Commission has done, for example, with its communication on music rights.
I wish to commend the Commission for having, every week since 15 September, sent proposals to the Member States for submission to the proximity and necessity test.
In this way, it would be possible to obtain bottom-up European cooperation instead of the centralism that we have at present. (NL) Mr President, I gather from the work programme that the Commission - and I quote - would like to listen more to the citizens in order to involve them more in the policy process.
As the Dutch cabaret artist Wim Sonneveld might have said: nou breekt m'n klomp, 'that takes the biscuit' - or something very like that.
For those reasons, and many others, I conclude that we can do no other than express our disapproval of this work programme that is so full of platitudes and good intentions that cannot be kept and in which the essential concerns of the European citizens are completely overlooked.
Our objective is, indeed, to join with the other institutions, notably Parliament, in better targeting the priorities each year and placing them in the context of Europe's overall efforts.
Mr Schulz recognised a number of features from other programmes.
The work done by the Commission and by the other European institutions cannot consist in re-inventing the wheel each year.
One of my country's great thinkers said that in speaking the truth, one cannot be original every day.
Perhaps there will be a number of differences in terms of practical objectives, but I believe that there is a convergence of views between our institutions about the point of the actions to be taken and the ambition behind them.
In this area, we do see the solid outlines of a possible accommodation between the concerns of those who, like yourselves, are more ambitious where the environment is concerned and those who are more ambitious when it comes to competitiveness.
More and more, the work that needs to be done is that on combating climate change and on pursuing a coherent energy policy and a Europe that is not only more competitive but that also derives its strength from a sustainable economy marked by solidarity - all of which presupposes, of course, greater investment in innovation.
The combination of work and family, more people within this labour market, is also one of the priorities in the Lisbon process.
Secondly, and still on the same subject, we will of course be asking the new Commissioners about their commitment to the programme for a social Europe and to solidarity, to which you have made reference.
The energy sector, for example - although Commissioner Piebalgs appears not to be here - is an important factor in terms of growth and job creation, but when a Head of Government asks how we are meant to run a single European energy policy when everything is geared to liberalisation and nothing else, then that is when the Commission must establish a political framework for the European energy policy.
It is easier to fight for your principles than to live up to them, but I hope that the Commission manages to do the latter when it comes to global competitiveness, green growth and a secure and sustainable energy supply.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I would like to point out to the Commissioner that we are going to have to carry on talking about old and new Member States for as long as we have the transition periods to which my colleague, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten referred.
We would rather have seen a framework directive on social services, but will nevertheless be looking to see whether the proposals brought forward also take into account the effects of existing European legislation on the future of services.
In the name of flexibility, the completion of the internal market and globalisation, employment contracts are being trampled underfoot, and there is a danger of more multinational company relocations, as in the case of GM Opel in Azambuja, Johnson Controls in Nelas and Portalegre, and Lear in Valongo, to name but a few of the most serious cases currently threatening thousands of workers in Portugal, where unemployment is already very high following redundancies in the textile, clothing and footwear industries.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, European integration is just part of the solution to the question of economic growth in Europe.
The success of domestic reforms in some countries has allowed them to quickly absorb enlargement in 2004 and to adopt the principles of the common market in all areas.
The success of countries such as Ireland, Finland, Holland or Great Britain has allowed these countries to regard world competition more calmly.
This political and economic alignment of forces within Europe gives me serious doubts as to whether the oft-mentioned Constitutional Treaty is a good solution to our economic pains.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Mr President, legal certainty means that the exercise of power and the administration of justice can be anticipated on the basis of legal rules.
The struggle between the political establishment and the peoples of Europe continues apace, then.
The Court of Justice is, in reality, a self-appointed power in Europe.
I hope that the Commission will read the report by the Conseil d'Analyse Economique, a high-powered economic committee of the French Government chaired by Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin.
The position is very clear: Europe's share of world trade is shrinking fast.
The EU is making us poorer and less democratic and less free - and we have had enough of it! (DE) Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that Mr Helmer would defend the British internal market, which he sees as geographically limited, without wishing to undermine the principle of the market economy.
The second thing - and it is something I see as very important - is the energy issue.
A debate on the subject of these disparities on the market is urgently called for - and in the sphere of foreign policy too.
In the meantime, social Europe is at a standstill.
The last piece of EU legislation in the social field was adopted over three years ago.
Better regulation means no legislation in the social field but also reflects the poor prospects for any proposal in the Employment Council.
But we must do more, especially as 2007 is the European Year of Equal Opportunities.
If we are really to achieve growth and competitiveness, legislation should only be brought forward in the employment field if it cannot successfully be enacted at local or national level.
The first relates to the Commission proposal to encourage the creation of common principles to strengthen job flexibility and security.
Finally, as with the directive on the liberalisation of services, the same with the Commission programme: the workers and citizens are not suffering from a problem of reduced perception, as some have said; they simply disagree and no one should misinterpret that. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I speak on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party.
The Commission communication on competitiveness is a necessary step towards implementing policies aimed at improving the Union's economic performance in the global context and within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy.
Finally, I would ask you to take relevant action in the field of accounting, so enabling the European Union to be equal to the ambitions we need to espouse. (ES) Madam President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, Commissioners, Mr Almunia, better and better legislation requires better and better budgeting.
There is, and there will be, no new legislation or new initiatives for next year unless the Community institutions, the Commission in particular, carry out a full assessment of the availability of funds and of how to allocate the resources in the manner demanded by the Union's citizens.
In other words, the Union, and the European Commission, need legislative priorities and budgetary priorities that are in unison.
I would remind you of paragraph 47 of our resolution on the Annual Political Strategy, in which we insist that the European institutions must reach an agreement on this legislative programme in December 2006, in order to coincide with the end of the budgetary procedure for 2007.
The Commission has rectified two points that are important for next year.
As Françoise Grossetête has said, the Commission's programme is a political programme and I therefore believe that it is right for the Commission to aim high, but it is doing little in terms of controlling spending.
Any impact assessment should also take into account social life, gender policy and other areas as well. - Cohesion - protection of natural resources Madam President, there is a tendency for all speakers to consider their issue as the most important in the debate.
As we are talking about the European Commission's legislative and work programme, I wish to say - as I shall be referring to regional development - that we shall not have very important issues to debate next year.
The old regulation is out of date and the European Union needs to demonstrate its solidarity in the areas affected, especially when we are talking about major disasters, because that is how it gets closer to its citizens.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FI) Madam President, the legislation that applies to the European Union as a whole needs to be based on an analysis of where we are, which of the measures that have already been taken have been effective, and what new measures are needed for us to achieve the targets that have been jointly set.
The European Commission promised to put forward a proposal to revise the Sixth Environment Action Programme this year.
The Commission says that it intends to examine the Environmental Technologies Action Plan next year.
We also, however, need to look at areas other than developments in energy technology.
We need new technology for material efficiency, and in this way we will also be able to redeem our promise of improved competitiveness. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, there is a time for words and there is a time for action.
I and my colleagues in the Committee on Regional Development brought these matters up with Mrs Hübner; we are disappointed that the Commission's document before us today pays hardly any attention to how the Commission intends to set out to achieve its objectives.
I would suggest that we need a panel of independent experts, not a new building or agency, but people on whom we can call to help to ensure that the impact assessments are effective.
So perhaps the package is to do less than we have done in the past, but to do what we do even better.
In our committee we look to the work in the health sector.
The environment goes hand-in-hand with growth and jobs.
With regard to the reduction in administrative costs set out by the Commission, the vision of European policy that underlies it is, in general, very simplistic and penny-pinching - it is a short-term vision from which our political priorities will suffer.
True, the solutions proposed by the Commission in its citizens' agenda are based on the idea of a proactive political programme targeted at the needs and expectations of Europeans.
Unfortunately, though, I cannot now find in this document any specific or new proposals for how to achieve the objectives of this programme.
The high cost of energy hits the poorest.
Within this context, the Commission's general attitude to the fisheries policy is marked by a surprising lack of legislative activity, a lack of political impulse and lack of ambitions and commitments in the face of these challenges.
The plan is for the European Parliament simply to be consulted, but we would like to obtain commitments, so that we can be fully involved and our voice can be heard in the discussions on these two decisive directives.
The work programme for 2007 lacks vision, ambition and courage in this respect, which is very cynical in the year of equal opportunities.
Parliament has repeatedly called for a horizontal directive banning all forms of discrimination.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Madam President, my speech follows on seamlessly from what Mrs in 't Veld said.
On 16 January, Commissioner Frattini said that he wanted this straightened out, but that the Commission would not propose it because it would not attain the required unanimity in the Council of Ministers.
Let a cross-border, public debate take place on this subject, because I would be interested to see whether Commissioner Wallström would agree with me that only then would Europe come nearer to the citizen. 2007 is the year of equal opportunities, and it appears to me that, as a result, we have no time to lose.
In fact, as regards the Commission's priorities for action in 2007, we feel that there is a lack of drive by the Commission to ensure that a practical common policy on immigration is launched.
I do not think that the Commission's efforts are heading in that direction.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, looking at the Commission's programme for 2007, I am struck not just by the new areas in which the EU seeks to strip more power away from my country and from the ex-EU slaves and eunuchs who run it, but by the brief mention of the term 'constitutional treaty'.
My submission is that the hidden agenda and programme for 2007 will include a resurrection of the constitution, that slain vampire, after a small blood transfusion.
I also note a proposal from the Council to improve cooperation between EU police and security forces.
This contains a proposal about sharing information at European level, including sharing with Europol.
In the Netherlands, we have now managed to bring about a 25% reduction, but communication with businesses and citizens has resulted in continued complaints about far too much bureaucracy.
What I find worthy of criticism about this work programme is the fact that - in parallel with the efforts by G6 states to do something about legal migration and by the few states gathered around the Federal Republic of Germany that have launched the Prüm Convention - parallel structures are developing into a third pillar outside the third pillar without the Commission - whose role as guardian of treaties is about more than making laws - intervening or making any kind of forthright public comment.
I believe that, as far as 'listen and deliver' is concerned, the ball is now in the Commission's court. (EL) Madam President, one of the main measures for 2007 is border control.
However, I want to welcome the review of the single market strategy on behalf of the members of our group.
We will therefore give the Commission a lot of support for that and indeed for other initiatives to make the single market work better.
That leads me onto a broader concern I have on the work programme and the priorities as presented to us.
I think there are 21 initiatives and, as my colleague, Mr Grosch, said, the difference between strategic initiatives and priorities is not entirely clear.
On the single market, we know that Mr McCreevy estimates that 90% of the legislation is already in place.
Well, colleagues on this side of the House, it is an enormous success for this Parliament and all of us working together.
However, I notice that he has finally joined our liberal club because the release states that he supports the flexibility necessary to enterprise and the promise of new job creation.
Welcome to the market liberalisation club, Mr Schulz! (DE) Madam President, 2007 will certainly be an important year in terms of whether citizens are won over to Europe or whether they continue to distance themselves from it.
The June Summit spoke of 'additional elements' that need to be developed, and I hope that 2007 sees the Commission, too, proffering some thoughts about what that means in practice.
These are important tasks for 2007. (PL) Mr President, it was with real pleasure that I welcomed the points of the last two parts of the programme presented, that is to say the part containing strategic initiatives and priority strategies.
It specifically addresses communication, and I would like to thank Commissioner Wallström for preparing this unusually important section, particularly in 2006, as 2007 is to be a crucial year.
This is the expectation of all citizens of the European Union, but the citizens of the new Member States are in a less favourable situation.
I should like to remind you of the three objectives of the European Development Policy, as described in the Treaty, namely sustainable development, the fight against poverty and the gradual integration of the developing countries into the global economy.
Finally, I am appealing to the Commission to include in the list of priorities communications in the following areas: the latest with regard to the EU's contribution to the development goals; secondly, any headway made in European development policy with regard to the WTO's development round, and thirdly, the implications of the Commission proposal on more highly educated immigrants on the brain drain in developing countries.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, I would first of all like to congratulate the Commission on having attached a high priority to a communication policy and, in particular, on having already implemented it within Parliament.
Finally, foreign policy, as presented here, seems to be based more on the European Union's bilateral relations with certain countries than on a regional policy or a policy of great communities.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, 2007 will be the key year for us all to find our own way to escape from the constitutional crisis and I am very pleased to hear from President Barroso that he plans for the Commission to play a central part in that exercise.
The Commission and Parliament must be steadfast to support the deployment of so many European forces, not least at present in South Lebanon, as this exercise surely provides the greatest test for the development of our common foreign security and defence policy.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as foreign and security policy coordinator for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I should like to make a number of critical remarks.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the European Union has done much to raise its visibility in the world arena in recent years.
Since the enlargement of 2004 we are neighbours with a very troubled part of Europe to the east, where in recent years we have seen Russia return to a policy of coercion in respect of its neighbours, countries which today are also neighbours of the European Union.
We will not become a global player if we trade human rights in Russia for gas, or if we close the door to the pro-European, democratic and pro-western policies of Ukraine and Georgia in a cowardly way.
If we do not succeed in using them successfully, the world will see a growing gap between our often moralising declarations and the reality.
The world does not need such a European Union, and the world would certainly have little respect for such a European Union.
We stress, however, that bilateral regional agreements should remain supplementary, as I said, to the multilateral trade system.
But we can have an agreement on regulatory issues which are outside Article 34.
Member States are increasingly using protectionist methods.
If we are going to have a settlement, we have to move away from that.
I look forward to that in the coming year. (NL) Mr President, many citizens are sceptical about present-day Europe, and its mission is ambiguous.
Europe must be social not only inwardly, but a social Europe is needed outwardly too.
In the areas of migration, agriculture and trade, massive inconsistencies continue to exist.
Finally, you have accepted the Development Co-operation Instrument (DCI), but no attempt is being made to streamline the Cotonou Agreement in the same way.
My first comment will be a political one and then I would like to say something about the process.
But what I have heard is really a common call for sustainable development, meaning that a majority of you have mentioned the need to create jobs and growth.
This is the start of the debate, but we have to respect the most important resource we have, people, and make sure that we have a social security and social protection system that reaches out effectively to all citizens.
It has to be sustainable growth, which means we have to take account of natural resources, energy issues and environmental constraints.
As you know, this has been part of our political agenda from the first day of the Barroso Commission.
We propose social cohesion and I think it is important to mention in that context, since there was also a debate about regional policy, that we now have in place all we need - budgets, regulations, etc. - for a regional policy for 2007 to 2013, and that we are negotiating right now with Member States on the programmes.
The earmarking takes account of the needs of both more and less advanced regions in Europe, because there have been references to unfair cohesion policy and we say that all three dimensions of cohesion must be taken seriously.
It is important to mention that this Commission work programme for 2007 contains 34 legislative proposals, representing 36% of the total, 57 non-legislative proposals and one negotiating mandate.
That is more than last year's 24 legislative proposals, 57 non-legislative proposals and five negotiating mandates.
This figure shows that the proportion of legislative initiatives has increased from 27 to 36%.
In some cases, perhaps the Commission should ask the European Parliament to give us the resources we need.
I have heard so many proposals for things that ought to be added to the list and things that you have missed - initiatives or legislative proposals - that should be on this list: energy initiatives, migration initiatives, the single market review, the social reality stocktaking, the emissions trading scheme, a European strategy for social services, a Community framework for efficient health services, etc.
These 21 strategic objectives cover exactly the three pillars of sustainable development.
We have to explain to our auditors, the European Parliament and the other institutions, how we use our money.
However, we can discuss the structure until the cows come home, but in the end we have to choose and we have chosen to make this a more political document and explain the priorities of the Barroso Commission.
The different structure you propose makes a lot of sense, but I think this is the way to ensure we can have a real political debate about priorities.
I think I am speaking on behalf of all my colleagues when I say that we have welcomed this and have enjoyed that debate and interaction with the European Parliament.
You are right on that point, Mr Harbour: you have to decide to give priority to a number of them.
That is in response to some of the very important remarks on human rights and anti-discrimination.
Whether or not there should be a directive will be debated constantly with the European Parliament, but we can only present directives when we are ready and the circumstances are right.
The Commission will respond in the most appropriate and timely manner.
The presentation of the annual policy strategy for 2008 could be the moment when the Commission explains how it intends to take account of the resolution on the work programme.
We shall now start preparing to move the institutional issues and hopefully the constitutional treaty forward next year.
It has been necessary, because we can see a change of debate and atmosphere in many Member States.
It is important to know that we can mobilise that support in trying to find a solution to the constitutional issue.
The debate is closed.
