European Union Solidarity Fund: obstacles for its reform (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Gerardo Galeote Quecedo, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the European Union Solidarity Fund: obstacles for its reform - B6-0472/2008).
The Fund was created in particular as a symbolic expression of solidarity between the European Union and its citizens.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank the European Parliament, and in particular the members of the Committee on Regional Development, for their continued interest in, and support for, the Solidarity Fund.
It is an important instrument to promote the European Union's strategic objective of solidarity and, since its creation in 2002, 61 applications have been received and the fund has intervened in 33 cases in 20 different countries.
The total amount committed so far is EUR 1 523 million.
The threshold for mobilising the European Union Solidarity Fund is extremely high.
For these reasons, in April 2005 the Commission adopted a proposal for a revision of the Regulation.
We hope that the report will relaunch discussions in the Council and in the European Parliament on a revision of the current Solidarity Fund Regulation.
The report should be ready towards the end of the first quarter of 2009.
This report, which the European Parliament adopted by a huge majority, has been on ice for over two years, because it is being blocked by the Council, despite the fact that citizens are calling increasingly loudly for European solidarity against the background of the ever more frequent occurrence of natural disasters.
You in the Commission have indicated that it might be a possibility at the start of 2009.
Mr President, Commissioner, as stated by my fellow Members, in 2006 we debated in this House the modification of the Solidarity Fund Regulation with a view to adapting it so that it could become a rapid and effective instrument of response.
In addition, we must be firm in proposing to lower the threshold for mobilising the fund from EUR 3 000 to 1 000 million in damage caused, not forgetting the regional component.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, my fellow Members have already cited some examples.
I should like to refer to some of them in order to introduce this subject, since we need to combat natural disasters.
Everyone obviously remembers Chernobyl, but if we focus on the last 10 years or so, there were the storms and the sinkings of 1999, the floods in Central Europe already cited just now, not to mention 11 September in New York, the terrorist attacks of March 2004, the problematic disease, chikungunya, and so on.
You said this in your closing remarks, Commissioner, you referred to the report by Michel Barnier.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Council is not present, but it is the institution that is creating the blockage, and it is to the Council that this discussion should be addressed.
In particular, we disagreed with the failure to maintain the eligibility of regional disasters - which are the kind that occur most - as provided for in the current regulation.
I would call on the French Presidency, as a matter of urgency, to reconsider their attitude towards the citizens of Europe. (DE) Mr President, this is long overdue, and I would like to thank the rapporteur most warmly.
Many Member States have suffered devastating natural disasters in recent years: I am thinking of the forest fires that repeatedly occur in Greece, including within the last year, and the floods in Central Europe in 2002, which also badly affected Austria.
The European Solidarity Fund should not only help to fund reconstruction, but also support emergency organisations.
These organisations always help in emergencies and are an indispensable part of the social structure in rural areas.
We therefore urgently need to take action to maintain and expand these aid structures.
During the time the Fund has been in use, omissions and failings have become evident, and for this reason reform is required to remedy these failings, and to respond to the dangers that face us.
We are still very far from achieving an effective system.
I am glad therefore that the tabling of this oral question and its urgency is a matter which is highlighted by the Committee.
It matters nothing whether it is floods or forest fires, when people are in trouble they need help and assistance and above all they require financial support, upfront and speedily; not like the present system that has taken months and years and has been stifled totally by bureaucracy.
I want to make it very clear to the Council.
So it is the Members - so do not run away from it - we, the Parliament, are the people who are out there with the people all the time and we need that support.
Today our citizens need a Union which can put this principle into practice.
In May 2006, the European Parliament adopted the European Commission's plan for a new Solidarity Fund, a new, faster and more flexible and effective fund, which it was planning to implement in the period 2007-2013, but which has so far been collecting dust on the Council's desk.
The European Union needs the new Solidarity Fund now more than ever. - (CS) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Committee of the Regions I had a chance to see with my own eyes the storm-damaged forests in the Slovakia's High Tatra mountains, the fires in Portugal and the floods in the Czech Republic.
Therefore the European Parliament has been trying for a long time to change the legal framework in order for the law to be able to consider fresh needs when using these financial resources and enabling the provision of rapid and effective help in a shorter period of time.
I therefore fully understand the questions that have been submitted and I call on the European Commission and the Council to resolve the situation quickly. (HU) Thank you very much, Mr President.
In spite of positive results obtained since the existence of the Solidarity Fund, further improvements are needed in order to be able to deliver aid more rapidly and efficiently to those in need.
Thank you for your attention. - (BG) In recent years we have had to face increasing numbers of disasters, both natural and man-made.
Over the past few years we have had to deal with floods, drought and forest fires in Bulgaria.
For the time being, though, we need to concentrate on real change, and that is why I urge the Commission, and in particular the Council, to support the modification of the European Solidarity Fund. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, the Solidarity Fund is an important tool for the exercise of social policy in Member States hit by natural disasters.
It is a practical expression of solidarity with European citizens affected by such disasters and it is through such procedures that we do justice to the vision of active support by the European Union for its citizens.
The Council bears a great deal of responsibility and we hope that it will respond to the call by the European Parliament and assume it immediately, even though it is absent today. - (RO) Mr President, Commissioner, fellow Members, first of all, I would like to say how happy I am that we are finally having a debate on this topic.
I am therefore proposing that the Union's budget be amended.
On the basis of these conditions, we all ask ourselves whether this is really emergency aid.
It is vital that a clear answer is given to these questions, just as it is also vital to clarify what the European Commission thinks about this situation and whether it intends to take any steps to unblock the legislative process.
In recent years we have observed a growing number of natural disasters, which have been increasingly violent in nature.
The procedure for applying for aid also has to be as simple as possible. (PL) Mr President, today Commissioner Hübner finds herself in a very difficult situation.
The Commission has continually helped us in drafting the revisions to this Treaty, and it has always been on Parliament's side in the efforts to implement them.
We have already completed the two exploratory studies, we have also completed consultations and the impact assessment is currently in preparation.
In spite of the fact that this Fund has recently been harnessed to help Réunion following Cyclone Gamede, and Martinique and Guadeloupe, both victims of Hurricane Dean, uncertainty remains about the admissibility of each request, because the Council did not take a swift decision on this reform.
