Conclusions of the G8 meeting - MDGs at the Midway Point (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: statements by the Council and the Commission on the conclusions of the G8 Summit; the report by Mrs Kinnock, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on the Millennium Development Goals - the midway point.
The mere fact that these issues should once again have received particular attention was already in itself good news.
The reaffirmation of Africa as an important subject in the G8 process is a good thing, but it is obviously nothing special considering the actual results.
With regard to questions of governance as well as fundamental principles of development policy, I am reasonably happy that our approach to good governance, that is to say one that is multidimensional and holistic, as well as the wording that we suggested, have been retained in the final declaration on Africa.
The USD 60 billion that were promised for the next few years in order to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis represent a clear and strict commitment in comparison with the cautious language that was used initially and that omitted any definite indication of the financial resources required.
The beauty contest of figures and declarations that the G8 seems to have become where development is concerned does not win over our African partners.
We must also, however, learn a lesson where the G8 is concerned: while Africa is increasingly developing relations with emerging countries, the G8 beauty contest is going to become a side show which will become less and less convincing if we do not manage to include China and the other emerging countries in international initiatives on Africa and development.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I finish, I should like to say a few words about Mrs Kinnock's report and therefore about the Millennium Development Goals at the midway point, the current relevance of which seems to me to be quite indisputable.
I remain convinced that the Millennium Goals are within our reach, provided, of course, that all those active in development - not only the sponsors but also partner countries - honour their commitments.
I should also like to emphasise the European Union's firm and total commitment in this crucial period of implementing those goals.
On this point, I should like, therefore, to make a few observations - and, indeed, express a few reservations - regarding the detail of the message contained in the report.
If I am naturally very broadly in agreement with the content of this report, I am all the same a little surprised by the mixed message that the report sends out to the world regarding the European Union's performance as a donor.
rapporteur. - Mr President, thank you very much for being here, giving the status that these issues deserve in this Parliament.
In 2005, the leaders of the rich world met at the G8 Summit in Gleneagles and undertook to double annual aid to poor countries to USD 50 billion, and to give 100% debt cancellation.
In May 2005, the EU Council had already set the agenda for the Gleneagles Summit which took place in July of that year.
They had agreed - and this is important - a time-bound commitment to meeting the 0.7% of GNI and 100% debt relief.
In 2010, when aid to Africa is supposed to reach USD 50 billion a year, debt relief would have been largely accounted for and would therefore no longer bolster the amount of aid a country gives.
At the G8, we saw efforts by some Member States of the European Union to press for the promises to be met.
They talk about 5 million people in 2010.
There are still too many people dying of starvation, too many children still have no access to schooling, too many women are still disadvantaged and AIDS, malaria and TBC are still claiming too many victims, and I could go on for some time, unfortunately.
Thirdly, I should like to draw your attention to the importance of trade.
Countries must be able to count on our support in this.
Aid in this area is extremely urgent.
In 2000, 191 world leaders committed to the Millennium Declaration to stamp out extreme poverty in the world by 2015 and to improve the health and well-being of the poorest.
First of all, by placing centre-stage not only the victims, but also the successes, including, for example, the end of the wars, in Mozambique among other places, not to mention top African diplomats such as Kofi Annan, fashion houses from Abuja, wine farmers from South Africa, pilots from Ghana, top football players from across Africa and female ICT entrepreneurs.
Genuine cooperation means that we need to focus the European Development Fund and our aid budgets more on the Millennium Goals, education and health care.
This will benefit Africa, and indeed, the rest of the world.
These pledges from 2005 were once again reiterated, but no fresh commitments were made, let alone a timetable.
Moreover, the Kinnock report has become a very even-handed document, in which our group's concerns have also been taken into consideration.
Secondly, more direct budgetary aid is inevitable if we want to achieve the MDG goals, but this should be conditional, primarily upon good governance and also on parliamentary control being carried out as a matter of vital importance.
Thirdly, we are in favour of further debt reduction.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, only a joint, global effort can help Africa today.
If we want to help African women in this field, we should send medical aid, provide drinking water, education and medical facilities.
It is also a form of moral imperialism directed towards Africa, which is an attitude that cannot be condoned in this House.
That is why I ask you to vote against points 40 and 41 in the report.
Unfortunately, the G8 Summit in Heiligendamm in Germany was one more example of this.
The promises made in Heiligendamm are now being offset against the promises made in Gleneagles.
This G8 Summit issued a declaration on climate change that is quite clearly worthless.
Since this is also a debate on the G8 Summit as a whole, however, I should like to remind the House once more that these G8 countries have no legitimacy whatsoever.
They are self-appointed world leaders.
We need a decision, an ideology whereby all citizens of the world have the same rights to democracy and to health and to involvement in decisions which concern them.
We must be careful, because otherwise we shall get a new AIDS from Africa, which will be more catastrophic than this AIDS which sends many citizens from the northern hemisphere to the other world.
It is time we held a thorough debate on this very subject. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues for the excellent work achieved and for the support given to my amendments within the Committee on Development.
The fight against AIDS, particularly in the light of the UN's recent reports and the lack of progress made so far in the Millennium Development Goals, must continue to be a priority for the international community, an unbreakable commitment and a responsibility to be borne by the industrialised countries.
According to the UNAIDS report, there were between 4 and 6 million new cases in 2006, with 3 million deaths in the same year, two-thirds of which were in sub-Saharan Africa, the region where the Millennium Development Goals are mainly applicable.
With regard to this struggle and the struggle against poverty in general we are very far from our roadmap and we can no longer accept the excuses of those countries - my own included, unfortunately - which have not yet met the commitments they have promised to the international community, bearing in mind the fact that these are already minimal.
We must ask the governments of the donor countries, in addition, not only for greater efficiency in development aid, but also for full consistency with their own trade policies, because supporting development means above all giving countries in difficulty the chance to raise themselves up with their own resources.
No Delors, no Kohl.
Nothing else is acceptable and you, Mr President, have a part to play in this.
You could give us leadership in this House.
I appreciate the fact that you place some importance on the President of the European Parliament, but he was not invited to Heiligendamm. (PT) The genocide in Darfur, serious crises in Zimbabwe, Somalia, Ethiopia and Nigeria, corruption, pandemics, desertification, the flow of arms and the race for oil and other natural resources; all of these are factors fomenting further conflict in Africa and adding to the number of people desperate enough to risk their lives in order to get into Europe or to a place where they can find better conditions.
In Africa, in particular, the Millennium Goals must enhance any security and development strategy, and in turn the joint cooperation strategy to be adopted at the EU-Africa summit to be held in December must not be just another photo opportunity.
Making commitments to strengthening democratic and civil society institutions in African countries includes investing in those that are fighting for human rights, for women's rights and for civil liberties in Africa.
The eradication of poverty presupposes the elimination of those diseases and the strengthening of the health system in Africa through the provision of at least the projected USD 60 billion over the coming years by the G8 countries.
The majority of countries still have not achieved even the intermediate goal of 0.33%.
Only 18 out of the 60 countries in need have had their foreign debt cancelled.
These decisions are important, not only because they reduce the often unbearable financial burden borne by these countries, but also because, as the World Bank stated, countries whose debts have been reduced have doubled their spending on fighting poverty.
Finally, it is also important to support the development of local governments, NGOs and to establish a central management system for aid from the European Union's budget, as this is the only way of improving effectiveness and limiting red tape and corruption. (DA) Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Kinnock for a brilliant report on the mid-term review of the Millennium Development Goals.
Attention should not, however, be directed only towards how the Member States can escape what is demanded of them or get away as lightly as possible from fulfilling the requirements.
In 2005, in Scotland, the rich countries solemnly undertook to increase public development aid to 50 billion dollars per year by 2010, half of which was supposed to be given to Africa, so as to ensure that the Millennium Development Goals set by the United Nations for 2015 would be achieved.
Two years on, as shown by the Africa Progress Panel chaired by Kofi Annan, actual appropriations represent only 10% of what was promised.
As though nothing were the matter, in Rostock the G8 countries issued a new commitment to grant funding of 60 billion dollars to combat AIDS, all in very vague and deliberately misleading terms.
The result of three days of meetings, at a cost of 120 million euros, was to send back to the UN a possible agreement on restricting the quantities of carbon dioxide to be emitted into the atmosphere.
It will not be possible to achieve any promise without calling into question the dominant economic and social models. (SV) Mr President, it is gratifying that the European Parliament's legal service has established that it is wrong to use the non-ratified EU Constitution as a reference in this report.
Those here in Parliament who know me are aware that I represent Sweden but that I came to Sweden almost 14 years ago as a refugee from Bosnia.
The view that aid should increase without the developing countries being required, for example, to reduce their debts means that aid is given without any demands being made in terms either of liberalisation or debt restructuring.
Without liberalisation, debts increase still more, however, and then we arrive at the situation I described at the beginning of my speech in which aid leads to dependence on aid - a state of affairs that should never come about.
From your name, one would not imagine you spoke such excellent Swedish: that sets a great example. (NL) Mr President, I should like to warmly congratulate Mrs Kinnock on a critical, but as I see it, particularly pertinent report.
I should like to thank the Commissioner for his observations further to the G8 Summit held at Heiligendamm.
There is no concrete funding plan in place that would make countries responsible for their commitments and any shortcomings, and it is already evident that the G8 countries will not manage to shift up the necessary gears to double the aid by 2010.
The promises that were made at the Summit in Gleneagles, namely to ensure universal access to HIV prevention, treatment and care by 2010 have not been kept, not by a long way.
Commissioner, USD 50 billion for HIV, AIDS, TBC and malaria is simply not enough in order to get the G8 to deliver on a promise in the area of public health on time.
I hope, Commissioner, that Europe will continue to fulfil its pioneering role in this respect. (ES) Mr President, in 2005, in Gleneagles, the G8 leaders sent out an exciting message with their promise to assign 42 000 million in health aid to Africa, focussing in particular on AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
It is difficult to speak on this issue in one minute, but I shall try.
Commissioner, you are right that the EU is an important money lender and also fulfils an important role in this.
I should like to highlight a few points: with regard to the quality of aid, it is particularly necessary to put an end to the highly damaging practice of aid linked to economic and geopolitical interests, as well as the inconsistency between the European Union's development, trade and agricultural policies.
It is a pity that numerous countries in the poorest area of the world, in Sub-Saharan Africa, are a long way from achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
The United Nations, the African Union, the G8 and the European Union must follow current estimates about the need to increase aid to Africa by approximately EUR 3.7 billion a year.
One hundred and twenty-one million children, 65 million of whom are girls, have never been to school.
I know you are not the lead Commissioner for climate change, but as the Commissioner for Development, you have a key role to play in keeping the momentum on climate change going because, as you know, the poor in the developing world are already paying the price of climate change.
This is in contrast to the 46 million children who are aborted each year according to the WHO.
Contrast the 46 million abortions with the total of 56 million people who die in the world each year.
Therefore, the ratio is that for every one woman who falls pregnant and then dies because of an illegal abortion, 650 viable children are aborted in the womb - what should be, as nature intended, the safest place in the world for a baby to grow.
Now, there is more and more to indicate that it is in actual fact we in the rich world who, through our life-style and our substantial emissions of carbon dioxide and other climate-affecting gases, have caused climate change in sub-Saharan Africa, as a result of which the inhabitants of that region are unable to provide themselves with enough food and water.
Mrs Kinnock has a special section on climate change in her report, emphasising our responsibility for ensuring that our carbon dioxide emissions do not affect the poorest people on earth.
Reproductive rights, information concerning legal abortion and access to contraception are, and remain, necessary features of our work designed to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
We should be more enlightened than that. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, today's debate makes us take a clear look at just how far we have still to go by 2015 in order to achieve the Millennium Goals.
Faced with what is at stake, the European Union must play its political role fully in order to strengthen the means for development and the effectiveness of its action on the African continent. 2015 is almost upon us.
As the leading global supplier of official development aid, the European Union has the means to help the countries of the South to achieve stability and to benefit from economic, social and human development.
This requirement means mobilising all those involved.
One can, therefore, note the commitments made during the very disappointing G8 summit, which decided to allocate EUR 44 billion in aid for the fight against the pandemics in Africa and which reaffirmed the commitment of 2005.
In the 30 seconds I have left I want to address, in particular, the trade aspect of all of this: paragraphs 83 and 89 are particularly interesting.
The health programmes being conducted in 21 African countries account for EUR 396 million, with an additional amount of EUR 62 million earmarked for the coming months.
A word on climate change in answer to one honourable Member: I fully share your concern about the threat posed by climate change to developing countries and to their efforts to achieve the Millennium Goals.
I believe that issues relating to climate change should be incorporated into development cooperation.
The decision to conclude the economic partnership agreements before the end of 2007 was taken jointly by the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries.
This is a question to which we shall return, but it is undoubtedly due to the debate that was launched here in this House, particularly by Mrs Kinnock and others, that the Commission, its partners and the other interested parties have come up with far more flexible proposals that take more account of reality.
That said, Mrs Kinnock, you are undoubtedly correct.
I may add that, in my view, there is a risk that challenging these rules would trigger a discussion on the eligibility of other financial contributions which, as far as I am concerned, have nothing to do with development policies.
I must say to you in all honesty, however - because I hear you very clearly, and I know that almost everyone shares this point of view and that, moreover, when we listen to the statements made by governments, ministers, prime ministers, this message is one of the threads that runs through all of them - that these aims are far from having been achieved in practice.
I can tell you today that, for the operational programming of the tenth European Development Fund, I would put the number of Member States that have decided to take part in joint programming at about ten, and even they will not take part in all the programming arrangements.
The objective is not to know who is doing what but to know who does what best.
