Last year he was convicted by a first-degree Greek court to serve an unconscionably severe sentence in prison in Greece.
Over the last year in Poland a further 114 000 men have lost their jobs.
If the Parliament was not free, you would not even have been able to make that speech. (Applause) (SL) On 2 April, this House adopted a resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism by a large majority.
On the contrary, there are some people who want to elevate Tito to the status of a hero and name a street in the Slovenian capital after him, despite the fact that he was responsible for mass killings after the war.
In my country at the moment the so-called UK Independence Party - the party that Mr Mote was elected for - has posters across the country claiming that the European Union costs us EUR 400 million per day in membership.
It is a rather small budget, quite small when compared to the huge economic benefits, which amount to some EUR 2 000 per family in my country - an enormous benefit, well worth the price of membership, well worth the benefit of mentioning.
Just within the last few days we have heard, astonishingly, Israel threatening the European Union and saying that if Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner continues refusing to upgrade the Israel-EU Association Agreement, then European influence will be diminished, undermined, and we will have no role to play in the peace process.
Thank you very much, Mr Pannella.
The People's Republic of China (PRC) has consistently blocked this move since 1971, when it replaced Taiwan in the United Nations.
Unfortunately, this time, Mr President - although you were in fact here in the days of Otto von Habsburg and Altiero Spinelli, who encouraged our Parliament to make a real stand against the Council's demands by refusing to issue opinions - well, Mr President, this time we have both witnessed this Parliament content to behave like a 'taxi parliament' when faced with the desire to impose non-parliamentary timelines on us - and you did impose them - in relation to the failed Lisbon project.
Thank you very much, Mr Pannella.
