Lisbon Strategy - Broad Economic Policy Guidelines for 2008-2010 (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the Council and Commission statements on the Lisbon Strategy, followed by the report by Mrs Starkevičiūtė, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Integrated Guidelines for Growth and Jobs (Part: broad guidelines for the economic policies of the Member States and the Community): Launching the new cycle (2008-2010) President-in-Office. - (SL) I am very pleased to be taking part in this session, in which the European Parliament is debating the start of the next phase of the Lisbon strategy for growth and employment.
The signing of the Treaty of Lisbon concludes an era in which we were greatly occupied with our own internal and sometimes political shape.
Europe is now considerably better equipped to open itself up to the world, and the Lisbon strategy provides the tools for Europe to help in the shaping of world trends as well.
The present moment is characterised by at least four of these trends.
When Europe launched the Lisbon strategy in 2000, globalisation was mainly understood to be a competition between Europe, the USA and Japan.
Since then, new and important players have entered the world stage and are giving us cause to reflect anew on the contribution that Europe can make to this global world and where its true competitive advantages lie.
Only once in the past have we witnessed a revolution in mass communication; that was 500 years ago when cheap paper and print came along, forming the foundation of European supremacy.
In May 2007, Parliament adopted a declaration on the third industrial revolution and hydrogen economy, thereby demonstrating Europe's support for the leaders in this field.
The red thread of these trends is the growing importance of the creative potential of the people and their values.
That is why Europe has an ambition to be a co-designer of, and leader in, these four trends.
European ideas about development are framed by the Lisbon strategy for growth and employment.
Structural reforms have improved the foundations of the European economy.
The Commission did good work in preparing the Lisbon package published in December.
In the end, colleagues from most Member States agreed that we could improve on some formulations, but putting forward the actual guidelines for discussion would initiate a long period of harmonisation and slow down the transition to the new phase, although the final result would be very similar to what is in front of us now.
The ECOFIN Council unanimously adopted the decision not to modify the broad economic guidelines.
What are being modified are the explanatory texts, that is to say the context in which the guidelines are set.
The European Council will adopt the specific recommendations of the Member States relating to their progress in the implementation of the national reform programmes.
Allow me to briefly address each of these four areas.
It should be possible to improve coordination between European research and development policies and national policies.
It is necessary to increase the transparency of financial markets, improve legislation and reduce administrative burdens.
Flexible security makes it possible to seek dynamically for a balance between the economy, which requires an efficient labour market, and the security that means that people will quickly find new employment.
We must therefore provide lifelong education and other support.
Ladies and gentlemen, we need a decisive push for the new phase of the Lisbon strategy, in order to make Europe a more dynamic, creative and enterprising knowledge-based society, which cares for people and the environment.
We urgently need to reflect on the strategic framework of European development after 2010 and the possible convergence of the Lisbon strategy and the Strategy for Sustainable Development.
This century may become the century of Europe because the world will be dominated by European values and creativity, that is to say those two elements by which world trends are essentially shaped.
Therefore, we must not forget these deeply human starting points when we consider the economic and social future of our Union, that is to say our strategy for growth and employment.
It is about our response to the economic, social and environmental challenges of our time.
European integration, which has brought together 27 countries and almost 500 million people, is our great strategic strength.
The internal market is the foundation stone of our prosperity, and the common currency is a precious political and economic asset.
At times of global mobility, the question of how secure jobs are in the European Union and how we can guarantee more jobs, and well-paid jobs, in the future is the real social issue of the age.
Let me repeat: the social issue of our time is the question of whether we shall have, and retain in the long term, a sufficient number of high-quality jobs.
The resolution of this key issue is at the heart of the revised Lisbon strategy, our partnership for growth and employment.
These have been good years for growth and employment.
That still frightens many people, especially those who fear that they will be left behind by these changes and join the losers in the globalisation process.
This is another reason why it is important that the partnership for growth and employment should be even more firmly rooted within our societies.
We believe we have found a strategy which, unlike the original Lisbon strategy dating from 2000, is realistic and will deliver the desired results.
That is also the aim of the Commission's proposal for the next three years.
For example, in the next three years there is a particular need to place greater emphasis on the social dimension of our partnership for growth and employment.
This is the only way we can ensure that those who lose their jobs are not condemned, along with their families, to live on the fringes of society in permanent unemployment and poverty.
Let me make that crystal-clear, particularly in the light of some recent events.
The European Research Area must become a reality.
If we do not succeed in keeping research and development activities in Europe, we shall not manage to keep jobs in Europe either.
We know that we must continue to strengthen the internal market.
We need to release the full potential of the vast majority of our businesses, by which I mean the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises that employ two thirds of the entire European labour force.
We need a strong European industrial sector to take up the baton, for we are firmly convinced that a leading European role in the realms of energy efficiency, new technology and economical use of resources would not only be good for the environment but would also boost employment.
Responsible policies designed to combat climate change are not based on a deindustrialisation of Europe but on the viability of Europe as an industrial location, and on industries in Europe which produce without harming the environment and which export environmental protection.
To this end, we need a great joint effort on the part of the European Union and the Member States.
Three years ago, with the integrated guidelines, we established a reliable set of reference points with which European and national reforms can be aligned.
It reflects the overarching priorities of the Lisbon strategy for growth and employment.
If we look back over the past three years we can agree with the report's analysis of the fruits being produced by the Lisbon Strategy in this new phase following the review of 2005.
A significant proportion of that employment is related to the reforms which are coming out of the Lisbon Strategy, the way in which reforms are viewed in the labour market and other areas of economic activity as set out in the Lisbon Strategy and the national reform programmes adopted three years ago.
Reforms have been introduced to improve the sustainability of social protection systems and public accounts in many European countries and there has of course been a heightening of awareness of the need for us to take care of the environment in our model for growth.
The strategy for growth and jobs which has been in operation since 2005 is bearing fruit.
Therefore we essentially agree with the report being debated this evening: we must continue to move forward in the direction it sets out.
Nonetheless it is clear that account must be taken of changes in the situation - whether they be significant changes in the situation regarding energy and the environment, or the need to make countering climate change our top priority, new challenges, experience and obviously the economic climate and the economic situation we have been experiencing in recent months.
We must make best use of the room for manoeuvre gained through the sound reforms and sound policies of recent years; we must exploit the margin which this time of uncertainty is offering us now that the fiscal positions of our economies in most of our countries have improved.
We can allow the automatic stabilisers to stop working in most of our economies now that there is less growth because of the volatile pressures in the financial markets or the sharp slow-down in the United States.
We are in a better position than in 2001 to cope with a significant slow-down in economic activity, thanks to policies based on the Integrated Guidelines in our strategy.
When, in view of the pressures in the financial markets, we have drawn comparisons between the situation of the European economies and that of the economy of the United States, many of us have over the last weeks and months noted the advantage which the European economies have because of our sound economic foundations.
Those sound economic foundations have been strengthened thanks to the policies set out in these guidelines, both with regard to the operation of Economic and Monetary Union, and to the many structural reforms which are part of the Lisbon Strategy.
In particular, there are some priorities for the near future which are also evident and are pointed up in the analyses in Mrs Starkevičiūtė's report; it is now a priority for us to strengthen progress in financial integration.
Financial integration is an instrument available to us to enable us to bolster our capacity to contend with a situation such as the one we are experiencing now.
In the light of all this I am sure that we will work together, that we are going to work together productively with Parliament; this should strengthen the consensus on the basic aspects of our strategy and messages so as to encourage economic and social agents to participate actively in this reform process too so that the reforms are not something imposed from above but rather grow from the ground up and are refined through social dialogue.
The European institutions of Council, Parliament and Commission must work together productively so that not only they but also our Member States can develop and as part of their national reform programmes implement the objectives on which we are in agreement this evening.
However, I have always found it rather difficult to understand its main priorities.
This Commission document comprises some 300 pages, which are divided into separate chapters, each of them defining their own priority objectives.
Altogether we find 24 frameworks for the European Union to follow in order to achieve successful implementation of its economic policy and strategy.
We would not like to appear to be lagging behind the European Commission, so Parliament has adopted three different resolutions on these 24 frameworks, following three different procedures.
Apparently, this is our contribution to curtailing bureaucracy.
I appreciate the European Council's view that every new strategy should create added value.
The Lisbon Strategy's sole priority should be the wellbeing of citizens.
However, the Central Bank's ability to meet inflation targets is limited, as is its potential to meet inflation pressure and global challenges from outside the European Union.
Our first objective should be to consolidate managing institutions and reduce management expenditure.
The role of the financial sector should be set out and clearly defined in the Lisbon Strategy.
Researchers have put forward various suggestions for solving these problems.
Last week in Brussels we got together with members of the national parliaments to review progress on the Strategy, and on one thing we were very quick to agree: the new approach which focuses on growth and jobs, not forgetting the dimension of sustainability, is bearing fruit.
In all Member States and in all areas there is still plenty of room for improvement and a need for it.
We have a lot to learn from one another and we must also make better use of opportunities at the regional level.
So we shall wholeheartedly support the joint resolution on the Lisbon Strategy.
Greater investment in research and innovation and effective protection for intellectual property - these are crucial if we are to develop our economy in the future and create quality jobs.
Thirdly, the labour market must be reformed, flexibility and job security must go hand in hand with each other and we must invest more in people's skills.
We really must make sure that this crisis does not derail our efforts to promote growth and jobs.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Madam President, the application, albeit imperfect, of the Lisbon Strategy has enabled the European Union to move forward in many areas.
The Minister, Mr Turk, and Commissioners Verheugen and Almunia have just made this clear.
Even if the subprime crisis started in the USA, bankers, insurers and fund managers in Europe have been just as greedy, this being the main driving force in the financial world.
At the same time 1% of the population owns more than 15% of the available wealth in Europe.
We will not accept this Cold-War style niet from the Commission about the Guidelines.
The document guiding our actions also needs to adapt to the new European and international situation. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (BG) Dear representatives of the European Council, dear representatives of the European Commission, dear colleagues, Three years ago, the re-launched Lisbon Strategy clearly emphasized on the need for sustainable economic growth, and more and better-quality jobs.
Today, national reforms move at good pace, the European economy scores steady growth rates, while unemployment rates are at their lowest since 1998.
Notwithstanding the good results, much greater effort is needed against the backdrop of the gorwing global competition to achieve a dynamic and competitive economy based on knowledge and innovation.
It is the response to the globalization challenges, making it possible for the European Union to take the lead in economic growth, social and environmental prosperity, technological development and modernisation.
It is the attainment of these objectives that needs redoubled efforts in the years to come.
Liberals and Democrats for Europe recognise the development of new structures for the management of the Strategy over the last three years, with better allocation of responsibilities between the Community and the Member States.
Bulgaria and Romania have been fully integrated in the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy since their accession and, in 2007, they reported the implementation of their reform plans for the first time.
Regardless of the differences existing between individual Member States, the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy has improved the growth potential of the European Union as a whole.
The business environment, which is so very important to Liberals and Demoracts, has benefitted substantially from these reforms.
WE need a comprehensive approach at the EU level to the growth and competitiveness of small and medioum-sized enterprises.
The EU Member States have committed themselves to investing 3 % of GDP in innovation, research and development by 2010.
The European Union has made big strides towards its transformation into an environmental society.
Dear colleagues, many priorities of Liberals and Democrats have been reflected in the European Parliament's Resolution on the Lisbon Strategy.
Dear colleagues, The inidcators are in place, the objectives are clearly defined.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Thank you, Madam President.
I am in no doubt that the perturbation in the financial system requires measures to re-establish stability.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the realm of climate policy, the year 2007 - and some time has already elapsed since then - is regarded as the year when the reality of climate change was officially acknowledged.
The resolution now enshrines a concept that barely conceals the potential gulf between our respective views on sustainability.
This concept which we have now incorporated thinly veils our continuing failure to take a decision.
I believe, however, that the need to alter the guidelines of the Lisbon strategy is not confined to the environmental dimension but also extends to the domain of social policy.
In our opinion, the common aim of social integration and cohesion can only be interpreted to mean, in plain and simple terms, that working people in Europe must be able to live on what they earn.
I was therefore puzzled by the squabbling between the political groups during the preparation of the Lisbon resolution on the question whether it is right or wrong to conclude agreements on minimum wages in Europe on an industry-by-industry basis.
Something I regard as a very important aspect of the resolution that will be put to the vote tomorrow - and this remark is also addressed to Mrs Figueiredo, who played a leading part in this success - is that we have managed to present joint proposals for new indicators with which progress towards achievement of the Lisbon objectives can be measured, particularly the objective of improving people's quality of life.
It becomes even more inadequate, of course, if we actually want to measure factors such as improvements in the quality of life and in the state of the environment.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL group. - (PT) In practice, eight years after the Lisbon Strategy was approved, social inequalities have widened and poverty, which afflicts around 78 million people, including 25 million low-wage earners with insecure jobs, has got worse.
Youth unemployment is twice as high as total unemployment, and includes many young higher education graduates who are unable to find work, much less work commensurate with their education, while around 6 million young people continue to leave school prematurely every year, which also threatens their future.
Policies must therefore be changed as a matter of urgency to forestall their consequences in the European Union, particularly in the most fragile economies, to avoid a deterioration in the social situation.
Our resolution therefore stresses the need to replace the 'Lisbon Strategy' with a European strategy for solidarity and sustainable development that opens new horizons for a Europe of full employment without discrimination, decent jobs with rights, better wages, economic and social cohesion and adequate protection and public and universal social security, or in short, guaranteeing greater social justice.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, over the last few months the credit crisis in the USA has shown that a purely capitalist system is unsustainable.
That became very clear in 1989.
That will only be possible if everyone who can play a part actually does so and if we work to guarantee a good living environment.
I do not think the solutions recommended by our colleagues in the GUE Group are either sufficiently informed or realistic.
Member States themselves must initiate reforms and carry them through.
Europe can certainly coordinate here, but it cannot dictate. (SK) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report in question rightly accentuates the risks of a deregulated global financial system.
It is therefore necessary to improve the rules governing competition in the energy sector as well as in transport and information systems, to gradually open up the relevant markets and to broaden and harmonise the European infrastructure. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution drafted by the Steering Group focuses on three key areas: the internal market, where we are concerned in particular with the need to close certain gaps, and I need only quote the examples of the absence of a uniform patent law and the absence of an internal market in insurance; the labour market, where we are concerned in particular with security through flexibility; and monitoring and control, where we are concerned in particular with implementing the strategy in the Member States.
This time we chose deliberately to focus not on energy and climate, because that was the key area in the past two years, and in strategic terms we have in fact achieved what we wanted to achieve with our resolutions, namely to ensure that the Commission and the Council concern themselves deeply with the subject, which is what they are doing.
In particular, we refer to the problems that still exist in regard to evaluating results and cutting back on red tape.
My Group stands by the integrated guidelines and, like the Commission, believes that we do not need to change the integrated guidelines at this point in time.
When in 2005 we in a sense revived the Lisbon Strategy, everybody assumed Lisbon was merely the capital of a Member State, Portugal.
That was not the case, for example, of Kyoto, which stands not just for a town but also for a global strategy.
We support the Commission's position that growth and jobs are the key aspect and that progress in that area is of crucial importance.
Jean-Claude Juncker, the Eurogroup Chairman, has just announced that growth will decline, that in 2008 it will no longer be 2.7%, but 1.6%, 1.7% or 1.8%.
This sounds a clear warning bell, especially because we know that the outlook in the USA was already looking gloomy at the end of 2007.
At the same time inflation is forecast at 3.2%.
We also know that poverty has not fallen in the European Union over the past five years, but that in fact more people are excluded from the affluent society.
Research and development have reached a more or less stable level, but certainly not the 3% we need for the Lisbon Strategy, only just over half of that, at an average of 1.6%, 1.7% or 1.8% - far too low to allow us to play the international role we want to play.
Surely I cannot pretend that the integrated guidelines provide me with an instrument of governance while at the same time shaping that instrument in such a way that it does not react to economic and social data in the European Union?
The Socialists support an offensive strategy, as presented in Parliament's documents, but we want real answers that help improve the lot of the people. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Member States are and remain responsible for formulating and implementing economic policy.
That means the Lisbon Strategy can only be implemented by targeted measures in the Member States.
That is precisely why the basic features of economic policy are so important.
Unfortunately, the Member States do not always implement the integrated guidelines for growth and jobs, and at times only do so rather timidly.
Rescuing private financial institutions such as Northern Rock in the UK or IKB in Germany with the help of the taxpayer's money is an unacceptable mistake in terms of the rules of economic policy.
That kind of procedure undermines people's trust in the social market economy system.
It is the State's job to support the market by passing the appropriate framework legislation, but it is the job of the market to drive the economy forward and ensure that Europe remains competitive.
Well over 12 or 13 million jobs have been created in Europe over the past number of years, which is more than has been achieved in the United States of America.
However, if we want to get enlightened social policies and have the money for enlightened social policies, we have to liberalise our economies.
And that is one of the issues that we are not addressing within individual Member States.
Similarly, innovative reform of the labour market should be guided by 'flexicurity' rules which promote competitiveness and at the same time provide adequate social security yet do not give a nod to the right in this Chamber, as my colleague Rebecca Harms said in her speech.
You said productivity has now grown.
That means we still have the same problems we had five years ago, that we had three years ago, with the Lisbon Strategy.
If profits escalate, they could also be allowed their share.
If I want money, then I as the European Union or as a Member State must also insist on more tax revenue.
That would be the right approach for a Lisbon Strategy: a radical rethinking of economic policy.
It makes no sense to talk about the European economy as a single entity.
What these countries desperately need is lower interest rates and devaluation, which cannot be delivered because they are all in the euro area.
What we are not agreed on is, for example, the fact that the Commission regards new economic migration on a huge scale as one of the most important means of achieving the Lisbon objectives.
I remember the European Commission saying a few months ago that the political crisis in Belgium would slow down the pace of the reforms needed to achieve the Lisbon objectives.
The reality is that the political crisis in Belgium was proof of the failure of the Belgian state and it is this fact of Belgium's existence that is stopping Flanders from modernising its employment law and jobs market, from reducing its social costs, simplifying and reducing its taxes precisely in order to meet these Lisbon targets.
The so-called optimism index has decreased over the last nine months by nine points, from 26 to 17.
This means that, eight years after Lisbon, European citizens do not believe that the EU can provide proper responses on these issues.
So Lisbon is still in our documents, but is certainly not in our hearts and minds.
We still have a lot to do as regards knowledge creation, knowledge management and the motivation of people as a Community.
In the 21st century, real people will be central, yet the Commission President is not here today to speak about this ... (The President cut off the speaker) Madam President, after seven years of work, the Lisbon Strategy is partly a failure.
We know that gender equality improves economic growth but we still have a lot to do in this area.
We know that the transport sector is very bad in Europe and we still have a lot to do when it comes to railways and transportation time through Europe.
We all agree that climate change can be a win-win situation, where we can solve environmental problems and where we can create new jobs.
We have already delivered decisions on this in Parliament and now we are waiting to see what the Commission and the Council will deliver in the Spring Summit.
While the GNP forecasts for 2008 and 2009 put forward by individual Member States are lower than the growth rates achieved in 2007, it appears that the reality will be even worse.
Crises on the world financial markets, rising energy and food prices, sluggish domestic demand as a result of wage dumping and social robbery, the growth of insecure employment - those are all urgent problems that need to be tackled.
What we really need is a radically different economic policy, in which the interests of the employed and the unemployed take precedence over the profit-seeking of big companies. (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, wanting a knowledge economy is a good thing, but it is not enough.
With their competitiveness already under threat from the increasing bureaucratic costs in our societies, they are being stifled by the absurd way in which the euro is managed, which generates a competitive additional income for countries that have no serious social or environmental policy whatsoever.
The model is back-to-front.
We are socialist within the EU and liberal outside it, yet what we need is greater protection from the rest of the world and greater freedom within.
Let us therefore abandon the demotivating myth of a European social strategy that guarantees prosperity for all.
I do not think anybody has mentioned this so far or complimented the Commission on actually doing this.
We now have a Community Lisbon programme with 10 priority actions.
I have to say, somewhat to my regret, that, as a member of the group, I think Parliament's resolution has gone in entirely the other direction.
I suspect the Commission will be disappointed, because I note in the Community Lisbon Strategy with its 10 priorities, which I am sure all of you have read, that one of the top demands from the Commission is as follows: 'It is essential that the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission agree on the strategic reform objectives and actions'.
Part of the problem we have is that we get piles of papers - different communications on different aspects of the strategies and revised priorities.
Last week, I participated as a rapporteur in the meeting with national parliaments.
I just want to echo what many colleagues have said: the action on Lisbon is shifting from here to the chambers of national parliaments, because that is where we need to engage them on delivering these 10 priority objectives, and that is something we need to reflect on as well.
Six million youngsters leave school without qualifications.
Proof that a strategy for growth and jobs does not automatically lead to social inclusion and worthwhile employment for all.
Secondly, not all jobs are quality jobs.
And Member States' spending on active employment policy, support and training has fallen rather than risen.
So clearly Member States have not yet grasped that a balanced flexicurity approach has to entail contracts that are both flexible and secure and that active investment in human resources is a sine qua non for preventing segmentation of the market.
We are assured that there will be a new social agenda and it is good that this should be part of the Lisbon package.
But we are looking to the European Commission to propose an ambitious social agenda, not just communications on demography, training and migration, as announced, but also initiatives for legislation to improve the quality of employment and strengthen the battle against poverty and social exclusion.
Mr President, one of the key recommendations of the European Parliament is to combat protectionism both within and outside the EU.
Our highest priority should now be the removal of protectionist barriers within the EU.
We have only two years left to become the world's most competitive economy, and to boost competitiveness and create more jobs and growth, but I am hopeful.
In Romania, my country, the average economic growth rate has been about 6% over the past five years, and the unemployment rate is down to 4%.
Opening frontiers to third-country workers is necessary, but our top priority should be to lift the EU's internal barriers first.
Workers from the 12 new Member States should be granted priority to go and work in any other EU Member State, and the transitional arrangements should be removed.
As for the environment and climate change, there are positive elements in the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, more so than in the United States and other countries.
However, if development in every country is not fully linked to environmental protection, then the results will not be systematic.
Finally, I should like to add that research and innovation cannot be merely a marketable asset; they are a public asset and should be judged first and foremost on the extent to which they serve the progress of society.
Mr President, economic competition is a key factor to the Lisbon Strategy.
The Lisbon Strategy is based on competition, competitiveness and growth and, although competition is important for any viable economy, remember that the basic mechanism of competition is that someone wins, and someone loses.
On the other hand, globally it can mean extreme poverty for the losers, but even within Europe this issue of losing is important for us to address, because there are citizens within our Union who are losing by not reaching the benefits stressed in the Strategy.
In fact, statistics are showing an enormous increase in not only those who are unemployed, especially among the youth, but also an increase in the social inequalities and levels of poverty. (PT) In 2006 the European Union recorded its highest economic growth since 2000.
In 2007 the EU grew more than the United States, and some new Member States approached or even broke the two-digit barrier.
For those who claim that the reform of the Lisbon Strategy is neo-liberal and no longer attaches importance to social issues, the answer is clear: in 2006 employment grew three times more than the average over the previous five years, in the last two years over six-and-a-half million new jobs have been created, and another five million are expected by 2009.
This should have been reflected more in the Lisbon Strategy and in the Guidelines.
Thirdly, I want to mention one aspect which Anne von Lanker, among others, has raised.
There is no contradiction between the social dimension and development for jobs and growth.
Things are also going better for the EU than for the United States, for example.
We know that the internal market and euro cooperation have created entirely new conditions for a growing Europe.
It is possibly a little jingoistic, but nevertheless: in my home country the Swedish Government has pursued a growth policy which has created almost 100 000 new jobs, partly through targeted measures to cut taxes and employers' contributions.
One proposal specifically concerned reducing employers' contributions for service undertakings in a number of sectors which are not competitive on the international market.
And we today, just like the communist planners, continue to say we must do this or that, or we must achieve such and such, without getting any nearer our targets.
And so we get stuck in the apparent contradiction between the concern of the developed countries to defend their centres of excellence - meaning, in practice, their jobs - and cohesion policy treated as an exercise in charity.
It is right to have talked about it this morning and made our expectations known to the Member States.
I would stress that our Strategy is implemented at a decentralised level, in businesses, in municipalities, in the regions.
More than 66% of all government spending goes on local and regional projects and as EPP coordinator for regional policy I know that in using the European instruments we have given things a sizeable boost since 2007 by re-prioritising in the structural funds and in regional policy.
We are talking here of the biggest European Union budget ever, more than 450 billion by 2013.
Happily our resolution makes this fact clear.
Along with social and economic cohesion this reaffirms territorial cohesion as a third objective.
But at the same time we must ensure that know-how is not exploited in a limited part of Europe only, but that it also transfers to other regions in the Member States, which must not get left behind.
In 2000 we defined a core objective through the Lisbon Strategy, which has meanwhile been revised.
The aim was that in two years from now, in 2010, Europe should be the most competitive area in the world, based on a knowledge economy that would create greater social cohesion and more and better jobs.
Now the challenges are more urgent and some conclusions are clear: firstly, convergence between the major economic policy guidelines and the Lisbon Strategy will have to be total; secondly, a balance must be struck between the stability of policy guidelines and the capacity to respond to rapid changes in circumstances, particularly in terms of climate, power, financial market development, external trade policy or the role of exchange rates; thirdly, the goals of social and spatial convergence are now one of the Strategy's greatest failures.
With Europe's ageing population it will in practice be a huge challenge to achieve the targets under the Lisbon Strategy, especially as the competitor countries and regions are forging ahead.
We might also legitimately ask if the most competitive economy was a realistic target, even such as it was originally, or one which we in Europe should aspire to at any cost, completely ignoring all other values.
Here I would just like to point out that in Europe there are 18 million unemployed and the unemployment rate amongst youth in some areas is as high as 25%.
I agree with previous speakers that, if that happens, the strategy will be rejected in practice not by governments but by the citizens of the European Union.
Mr President, the debate today shows how sensitive this matter is to the European Parliament.
The European internal market is the biggest driver of competitiveness in a global context.
Of course, then we need to concentrate on things at national level, at Member State level, and there we need much more action than we have seen lately, especially regarding the structural reforms to the labour market.
Financial services need much more attention, including at European level. (FR) Mr President, I think that this year our debate is really quite important because we are reviewing the Lisbon cycle.
The situation of the American economy is going to have an impact on the economies of all the EU Member States and the economy of the euro zone in particular, perhaps.
Also, we are going to have to take account of the legitimate new strategic targets for the environment and energy which the Heads of State and Government adopted last March.
We are therefore calling for these three elements to be officially included in the review of the Guidelines.
Mr Turk, when we saw you in Ljubljana last November, you said to us, 'Tell us what the European Parliament wants'.
If efforts could still be made to do this we would welcome it as progress in improving our ability to coordinate economic policies and therefore to apply the Guidelines.
The most immediate and important thing now is at least to ensure that the Member States comply with their own obligations.
This means monitoring the internal market, ensuring that the Member States implement and comply with decisions that have been taken, ensuring that the rules are well-founded, not too complicated and not too expensive for small and medium-sized enterprises.
This will also call for greater cooperation between authorities at local and regional level.
The EU gains its legitimacy from delivering, not least quality of life for citizens.
It calls for a stimulating entrepreneurial climate, which the Lisbon Strategy can help provide if it is implemented very deliberately.
The European Commission has stated that Spain has made good progress in implementing its national reform programme, has reached a level of employment 66% higher than the European average three years ahead of schedule, increased investment in research and development (R&amp;D) and has recorded surpluses in all budget years.
It will be necessary to address issues which have surfaced recently, such as the subprime crisis and fuel and food prices, but when we do so we must bear in mind that the our circumstances are sounder, that next year we will celebrate the tenth anniversary of the euro and that we must strengthen international economic cooperation. (FR) Mr President, we all know, and have to admit and accept, that the Lisbon Strategy has not allowed us to make the progress we had hoped.
Growth in the euro zone slowed down dramatically in the last quarter of 2007, and it is this lack of growth that lies at the root of Europe's problems.
The EU must therefore avoid shooting itself in the foot at a time when it is facing many challenges: a population that will be declining from 2020, economic pressure, a hike in energy prices, climate change and social imbalances.
We therefore need flagship measures to create a genuine dynamic and promote the development and growth of millions of SMEs for new jobs.
In the environmental field measures to bring about rapid improvements in the energy efficiency of our buildings must be given sizeable budgets, thus encouraging innovation and therefore new jobs.
Member States' public spending needs to be re-oriented and coordinated towards the priorities of the strategy in order to guarantee macroeconomic stability, sustainable growth and the achievement of full employment.
Public spending geared towards these priorities makes it possible to step up competitiveness and productivity.
In this sense, I am convinced that the European Parliament, in tomorrow's vote, will give a strong and decisive signal by calling on Member States to commit themselves to concrete and timely implementation.
Mr President, the financial crisis and the tightening of money markets has spilled over into the real economy, and presents a serious problem that needs considered action.
The euro has strengthened at a time of a weakening dollar, which is impacting further on global imbalances and European competitiveness, and all these factors are creating a very difficult monetary and fiscal policy environment.
The Berlin Wall fell in 1990 and we are still in the embryonic stages of integration.
Despite that, if we look at the success of the euro, and in general the success of the European Central Bank and its inflation targets and low interest rates, we can see that despite all these difficulties we can overcome, and we can achieve the objectives we set ourselves.
I would therefore ask the Commission to please plough ahead with its 10-point plan and to make competitiveness its byword.
Up to 12 million jobs have been created since the introduction of the euro.
This will deliver people out of poverty and out of misery. (PL) Mr President, our debate is taking place against the background of a deepening crisis on the financial markets, a slowdown in growth, and rising inflation.
It is therefore all the more important to press ahead with the structural reforms set out in the Lisbon Strategy.
To meet the challenges of globalisation we must build a knowledge-based economy and invest in education and the creation of human capital.
It is good that these two factors are reflected in the Commission's documents.
Liberating the potential of European entrepreneurs will be of great importance for economic growth and employment.
We do not know why expenditure on research and development is growing so slowly.
We do not know why labour markets still discriminate against outsiders.
We do not know why continuous education is not developing as intended.
I particularly draw attention to paragraphs 20 and 21 about the importance of small businesses, paragraphs 29 and 30 about competitiveness and the importance of the single market, and paragraphs 42 and 43 about the need to drive labour market reform.
It is essential to improve the quality of life in Europe, in the context of globalization, demographic changes and environmental challenges.
By creating new highly qualified and well-paid jobs and through sustainable economic growth, the Lisbon Strategy is also an instrument for building a new social Europe.
Social Europe should guarantee universal access to health care and social security services, access to quality public services and improve social cohesion by the efficient use of structural and cohesion funds.
Also, regional development should remain one of the priorities for the period of 2008-2010.
The 2004 the European Union's statistics regarding the innovation capacity showed that, in Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia, companies with more than 10 employees had more than 36% of the income realized from selling innovative products and services; nevertheless, now we have to invest more in the economy based on knowledge, to increase investments in research and innovation and, especially, in applied research.
This should become a priority for all the Member States.
In fact, the investments in research and innovation achieved in technological parks or universities should also be encouraged by fiscal measures bringing about the increase of private investments in research.
The Lisbon Strategy builds a Europe based on social justice and decent work.
The economic security of all the European citizens, social inclusion, the establishment of child care services, gender equality and the establishment of a social market economy will make the Union become an economic and social model in the global context. (DE) Mr President, money simply is a part of the development of Europe.
We all know about the situation of many banks in Europe - not to mention US banks - and how much the European Central Bank had to inject in order to keep the financial markets functioning.
That is why any adjustment of the basic approach until 2010 naturally also involves the necessary increased cooperation with all global market players in order to give our European financial economy more protection against further attacks from the outside, together with better rules on rating and adjusted supervision and great transparency, and restoring the banks' trust among themselves and the trust of the investors.
The US is aggressively lowering its base rates, which means money is being pumped into the financial institutions.
Europe and all global market players must fight the next wave of crises promptly and together, to ensure we are not overtaken by an absolute tsunami and that many of the endeavours to achieve the Lisbon objectives are not in vain. (EL) Mr President, I think that we should recognise three positive elements in the course of the reforms initiated by the Lisbon cycle to date: the first positive element is that even the most wary of governments have gradually begun to comply with the philosophy behind the reforms and have started to produce the first hesitant results; the second - and for this we should give the Commission credit - is that the new strategy is more focused.
I fear that the problem here is that this monitoring has degenerated into a process of exchanging letters between officials in Brussels and in the capitals of the Member States, without there being any political input.
The other thing is: the Lisbon process will only be of any use if there are sanctions attached to it, as there are in the case of excessive deficit.
From the point of view of the new Member States, I would like us to view things not only in terms of neoliberal indicators, but with a little more distance.
Even more important, however, is the question of what will happen to health promotion, or whether education will dovetail with employment, in other words whether the market will be able to use people straight away, and whether there will be more emphasis on and opportunities for vocational training?
In other words, in this context too we need to include a set of quality criteria, and not just take a knife and start hacking away.
I would very much like things to be measured in terms of GNI too, not only in terms of GDP.
Last, and most important, we need equal implementation of the four freedoms, not 'cherry picking', opening up to capital in one instance, while not opening up anything for the new Member States in terms of services.
Thank you very much. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution on relaunching the Lisbon Strategy is very much in line with the report which Parliament adopted last October, on my proposal, on the future strategy for the Single Market.
I should like first of all to thank Marianne Thyssen and Klaus-Heiner Lehne, along with all their colleagues in the Coordination Group, for having drafted a resolution which is both well balanced and in step with the political, economic and social reality in the EU.
The Single Market is what puts Europe's 500 million citizens in a position of strength in a globalised world.
Today there are new problems on the horizon for European integration, new issues to be resolved, such as protection of the environment, climate change and renewable energy sources.
Balanced growth and employment must be understood in a wider sense, not just in strictly economic terms but with regard to the social, cultural and environmental aspects.
The continuing trend towards higher energy prices, combined with the mounting threats to the climate, highlights the need to promote energy efficiency in the widest sense.
Finally, I hope the spring meeting of the European Council will adopt new guidelines for the next three years that take account of the views and opinions expressed in today's debate.
Progress in removing directives that do not serve the development of EU Member States is a basic issue. (DE) Mr President, slogans are good for the political debate, but we must not stop at slogans.
The Commission's communication on the integrated guidelines for growth and jobs, the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the five Groups on the 2008 European spring summit and the Starkevičiūtreport each sing a hymn of praise to the fifth freedom, the freedom of knowledge, which is to supplement and stand on a par with the four freedoms familiar from the past - free movement of goods, services, persons and capital.
In the past few years we have often looked into the question of whether and to what extent the European Union should have more competences in regard to the question of knowledge.
We have heard the same again and again in regard to the budget.
We need new instruments and we need new financial resources.
Let me put forward a very concrete proposal: 10% of all young people between the ages of 15 and 25 should spend six months studying in another European country.
And I fully agree with you, Commissioner, that the European Union's present strategy on the matter consists in exporting pollution and emissions and importing unemployment.
We must make the struggle against climate change into a source of development and competitiveness.
Third, the Union must develop a model of the information society and create the best conditions for promoting the establishment and development of innovative undertakings and the achievement of an economy open to new technologies and technical progress.
As I cannot believe that the Commission is unaware of the importance of these aspects of competitiveness - indeed, in the framework of globalisation, logistics represent a greater cost for industry than does labour, to say nothing of the additional challenge posed by climate change - I trust that this time the Commission will take full note of paragraphs 27 and 16, on Galileo and innovation, so that we are able both to make full use of the beneficial synergy created by the Lisbon process between the Commission and the Member States and to make progress in European plans for sustainable transport, logistics and trans-European networks, especially in the cross-border sections which are always so overlooked.
I acknowledge that this improvement is due essentially to better dialogue and better Member State participation, as we recognised last week in the joint meeting between the European Parliament and Member State Parliaments.
The Lisbon Strategy is a strategy for reform and modernisation; it needs cooperation, support and ideas from everyone working to the common end and I am truly grateful for your well-founded remarks.
This points to a spectrum of political views within the European Union.
As I have said, we were also wondering about that and we came to the conclusion that we must continue in the same direction and preserve the continuity and most of all the tempo of implementation of the Lisbon Strategy.
Other good procedural ideas have been pointed out, for example the exchange of best practices, the territorial dimension, and extension of the Lisbon Strategy beyond the framework of the Community and the Member States, possibly to lower levels.
As regards research and development, you agreed that this is precisely where Europe's future lies.
It is necessary to secure good conditions for talented people in Europe. 700 000 of the best European research engineers are abroad.
We must endeavour to attract them back, because 7 out of 10 who go to the USA remain there.
As far as the business environment is concerned, some of you advocated the internal market without protectionism, that is to say that an efficient market is what gives Europe a competitive advantage.
I like the ideas on enterprise culture, namely the promotion of enterprise, that to establish a new company or create a new job is the best thing one can do.
The fact is that we must improve many things in this area, primarily for the development of small and medium companies and their access to finances and research infrastructure.
Mrs Kauppi and Mrs Starkevičiūtgave a report on this topic.
The fact is that, as somebody remarked, if we do not introduce it, employers will resort to other forms of employment that are very flexible, but considerably less acceptable to the employee.
I think we are aware that, as someone said, it must become a 'win-win' situation for Europe.
The problem is how to get the rest of the world to join us in our efforts to convert to a low-carbon economy, although we can certainly contribute by our example.
We have an excellent interlocutor in the field of financial markets and fiscal policies.
The opinions expressed in this Parliament are varied, but it seems to me that they are pointing in the same direction as the Lisbon documents, that is to say the overall package.
Our strategy for growth and jobs, also known as the Lisbon agenda, is in fact nothing other than an attempt to compensate in the most intelligent way possible for the fact that we do not have a common economic policy in the European Union and - we are currently in the process of ratifying a new Treaty - will not have a common economic policy on the basis of the new Treaty either.
That means we should not measure the growth and jobs policy we have today by the objectives that were set out in the year 2000 and that we know cannot be achieved.
I am giving you my personal view on the subject.
What I think is important is that we should be in as good enough a position as soon as possible to achieve the social objectives we all want to achieve in Europe.
They are: a high standard of living for all our citizens, a high level of social security for all our citizens, a high environmental standard for Europe as a whole and awareness of our global responsibility.
Those are our major social objectives.
The answer is simply because in many Member States and at Community level too - as you all know - the financial priorities still lie elsewhere.
Without solid state finances in the individual Member States it will not be possible to set new investment priorities.
Those guidelines are not a political programme as such.
The guidelines, as formulated today, make it possible to do all those things that various speakers in Parliament today called for if they are implemented in practice in the national reform programmes and in the Community's Lisbon programme.
Let me just say one thing on the subject.
Member of the Commission. - (ES) Mr President, to be brief, if you are asking me to compare the economic situation today with that of three years ago when the renewed strategy under the Lisbon cycle began, I think we can put more than enough information on the table to say that we are in a better position today than we were three years ago.
There are more jobs, greater productivity, fiscal positions are healthier, there are more sustainable social protection systems and many actions are under way.
If, however, you are asking me, as a Commissioner, to draw the conclusion that there is no longer any need to do anything, my reply is clearly that there is much which needs to be done, that many things must continue to be done and that, given the current economic situation with its financial pressures, the pace must be increased.
Continuing to move forward in the same direction means that it is necessary to carry on doing things under the Lisbon Community programme, as referred to by some of you, and for which we are grateful, at the level of the Member States and regions, and in other bodies at a lower level than national governments, as Mr Fernandes said.
This is a key topic for Europe and economic and monetary union, not only for the countries in the euro zone but also for those who wish to join it in the near future.
We will not be able to tell citizens that it is necessary to address the challenges of globalisation, that it is necessary to be more competitive and that the operation of our markets must improve, if our policies do not respond to a greater degree of social inclusion which is also provided for by more competitive and more productive economies.
This is, shall we say, the link between the economic and social aspects embraced by the Lisbon Strategy from the outset, and this is more evident now than it was in 2005 or in 2000.
Finally, I agree with some of you - Mrs Berès and others - when you talked about the need for coordination of economic policies.
I undertake to discuss that aspect with you in particular as from May when the Commission will present a report and guidance based on the analysis we are carrying out on the first ten years of economic and monetary union.
rapporteur. - (LT) I would like to talk about coordination.
To my mind, if we were to implement them all, that would create an immense economic crisis within the European Union.
We are not in a position to eliminate poverty and deprivation by 2010, as foreseen in the Lisbon Strategy.
Researchers have already proved that the biggest problem within the EU is the failure to appreciate national differences and the attempt to excessively harmonise.
I do agree with Mr Verheugen that the EU policy should be one of cooperation, not dictatorship.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 20 February 2008. (The sitting was suspended at 20.00 and resumed at 21.00) Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - The aim of creating a dynamic and innovative society in Europe bringing growth and employment by 2010 will be successfully achieved only through an approach that genuinely takes into account the fight against poverty and the social dimension.
The prospect of creating new jobs in an innovative-based economy should bring developments in the fields of education and training to improve the equal integration of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged categories of the population EU-wide.
The real aim of the Lisbon strategy should in the end still be the improvement of the quality of life for our citizens and future generations; therefore, a strong social dimension is required.
in writing. - (HU) We are gradually coming to the end of the ten-year period during which the European Union was supposed to have become the most competitive economic zone in the world, with a sound social safety net and exemplary environmental indicators.
The task we set ourselves was too ambitious, and the results have been rather modest.
If, however, we take also into account the fact that the European Union has undertaken an expansion of historic proportions, reunited Europe, created a common currency and drafted common legislation on numerous matters for 27 nations, then we should by no means be disappointed in what has been achieved.
In terms of our environmental commitments, Europe in many respects continues to set an example to the world in terms of green thinking and legislation.
Many laws are just a dead letter in some Member States, and permissible environmental levels in some cases are more permissive than in many non-EU countries.
The Lisbon goals are therefore appropriate, but implementing them in the era of consolidation following the great boom of EU expansion will require a lot more effort than before.
in writing. - I welcome the efforts to fulfil the goals of the Lisbon Strategy, but I am not very convinced that fulfilling its plans is practically possible by the set deadline.
The Baltic Sea has become an internal sea of the European Union, showing stable, high economic growth.
The Baltic Sea region has the potential to become one of the most competitive regions in the world.
The Baltic Sea strategy has the potential to become a success story of Lisbon Strategy.
in writing. - (RO) The fundamental objectives of the Lisbon Strategy cannot be achieved without developing competitiveness, taking into consideration all the current global challenges (globalization, climate changes, fluctuations on the financial markets, international markets openness).
In order to increase competitiveness, the EU should accelerate its efforts to build a society based on knowledge and to continuously improve the administrative capacity.
Its human and material resources are an important source of competitiveness for all the Member States, which represents one of the main advantages that our country's accession has brought to the Union.
in writing. - (FI) The EU has many good intentions, one of the older ones being the Lisbon Strategy we are now debating and one of the more recent ones being the latest energy package.
