Nevertheless, the standard visa fee of EUR 60 does not apply to Ukrainian visa applicants.
In its Communication on strengthening the European Neighbourhood Policy, dated 4 December 2006, the Commission emphasised the importance of facilitating the issuance of visas for relations with the countries covered by the Neighbourhood Policy.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for coming and presenting the latest position of the Commission on visa issues for the Ukraine and Belarus.
The best way we can do that is to allow those citizens access into Europe not at rates which will frighten or prohibit entry by most citizens.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, first I want to thank the Commissioner for the very precise information, as ever, he has provided on this issue.
Since 1 January citizens of Ukraine have benefited from a simplified visa regime, though the majority of them feel that the position today is harder than it was before, since getting into their major target countries, Poland, Hungary and Lithuania, is now more difficult than it was previously.
But charging EUR 60 - a third of a month's salary in Belarus - for a visa flies in the face of that policy.
Put a proposal before the Council that will make it easier - in the interests of promoting democracy in Belarus - for people there to obtain visas. (LT) Madam President, whatever has been said about the cost of visas for Belarusians and Ukrainians, there is no doubt that urgent decisions should be taken on this issue and that they should be taken by the European Union.
However, negotiations on the agreement with Belarus have not even begun, because Alexander Lukashenko is not interested in offering Belarusian citizens the possibility of seeing the standard of life in the free world, especially if they find it to be much higher than that in Belarus.
The fact that Ukrainian citizens have to pay EUR 35 for a Schengen visa does not solve the problem, because only certain small groups of Ukrainian citizens qualify for the visa facilitation regime.
In Belarus EUR 60 is the monthly salary of a medical doctor under training.
I value the fact that the Commissioner mentioned Poland as the country which intends to press for lower visa fees for Belarusians.
The Agreement on visa fees for Ukrainian citizens stipulates that the Schengen states will charge EUR 35 for processing visa applications of Ukrainian citizens, and not EUR 60, which is considered to be the average cost of a visa.
