A good example is the recent granting of permission by the Council to the Burmese Foreign Minister to attend the ASEM meeting, only days after the military junta in Burma had extended the deplorable house arrest of Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi.
Another example is the fact that an arms embargo on Burma is largely ineffective, since countries like China and India are not taking part in it.
In conclusion, let me reiterate our call for the immediate release from house arrest of Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi.
It is truly outrageous and shameful that she has spent more than 11 of the last 17 years in detention in her own country.
Along with my colleagues, I particularly and principally deplore the house arrest since 30 May 2003 of Aung San Suu Kyi, the Burmese opposition member who celebrated her 62nd birthday on Tuesday and has spent eleven out of the last seventeen years in detention, mainly under house arrest.
Aung San Suu Kyi is the symbol of the Burmese opposition to the military dictatorship, and also received the Nobel prize in 1991.
I am thinking in particular of U Win Tin, a journalist who, now aged 77, has been in prison for nearly 20 years for writing a letter to the United Nations reporting the poor conditions under which political prisoners were being held.
Despite multi-party elections in 1990, which resulted in the NLD victory, the repressive military junta continues to refuse to hand over power.
author. - (ES) Madam President, as other Members have pointed out and as is pointed out time and time again in the reports by the United Nations Special Representative on Human Rights in Myanmar, Mr Paulo Sergio Pinheiro, and in the reports by the United Nations Secretary-General's Special Representative on Human Rights Defenders, Hina Jilani, the situation in Burma continues to be of concern and is deteriorating every day.
The 17-year-long plight of Aung San Suu Kyi is one which few human beings could withstand.
The military authorities in power in that country have failed to make any progress towards democracy, however.
Opposition activists are persecuted and imprisoned for long periods, as has happened in the case of Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel and Sakharov prize winner who has been detained for 17 years.
China and India should exert political and economic pressure on the Burmese regime by refusing to support the army of Burma/Myanmar.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Madam President, the subject of today's debate on human rights violations is once again the political and social situation in Burma/Myanmar.
For over 40 years, human rights have been violated in this Asian country, and thousands of individuals have been persecuted and punished for opposition activities.
On 15 May 2007 Aung San Suu Kyi's term of house arrest was extended for a further year.
This Nobel Prize winner and opposition activist has spent 11 of the last 17 years either in prison or under house arrest.
We appeal for her release and that of other political prisoners.
The Commission supports the work of Professor Paolo Sergio Pinheiro, the UN's Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Myanmar.
The European Union, in its common position, has mandated the Commission to engage the Government in a dialogue over its responsibilities to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
