It is not those who, like former German Chancellor Schröder, sing the praises of the Putin system and allow themselves to become involved in the propaganda and in the economic and nationalistic interests of that system, who are Russia's friends; no, Russia's friends support the human and civil rights of the Russian people, who have a chance of democratic development.
If we remain silent, the small seeds of democracy and the rule of law that President Yeltsin sowed and that President Putin has endangered will finally be suffocated, and that cannot be in the interest of Europe or in the interest of the Russian people. (Applause) author. - Mr President, I am talking in a personal capacity on this matter.
At the same time, more democratic reforms in the country have been instituted and the standard of living of the Russian people has been increasing steadily.
It is more than obvious that it is not possible or appropriate to deal with this significant and important issue in a time slot of 20 minutes on a Thursday afternoon, and this is the reason why my group cannot support the draft resolution and the reason why my group will abstain in the vote later on.
author. - (PL) Mr President, there has been another election in Russia, and once again many candidates were eliminated before the vote.
We must realise that nobody who treats Russia and the Russians like a normal society and a normal civilised western state can understand that country.
If not democracy, then rule of law is the key point here. 27 February: an activist of The Other Russia coalition was released from a mental hospital in the Russian city of Tver.
Roman Nikolaychik was a victim of punitive psychiatry.
Larisa Arap was held for 46 days after she published a critical article in the Murmansk Oblast.
Lev Ponomarev, the chairman of the For Human Rights movement, and Denis Bulinov, the executive director of the United Civil Front, were also among those arrested. 7 March: journalists silenced during Russian vote.
The march organised by opposition parties on 3 May at first did not receive the approval of the Moscow authorities and then ended with the arrest of the participants, including the leaders of the opposition.
The international community is entitled to expect from Russia's new president more than an assurance that democracy will continue to be built in the world's largest country, namely concrete measures such as a review of the situation of political activists who have been in prison for years.
Firstly, I would like to appeal for a serious, calm and objective debate in the European Parliament on the plight of Russian democracy and on human rights in that country.
It is not possible to hold a proper debate on all these issues this afternoon.
Once again, I would like to appeal for a serious plenary debate on the plight of democracy and human rights in Russia. (PL) Mr President, as it turns out, the democratic changes in Russia are not being accompanied by an improvement in fundamental civil rights, especially the rights of the opposition.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is closely following developments in the wake of the demonstrations in Moscow and St Petersburg on 3 March: we are doing so not only via our delegation in Moscow but also through direct contacts with Member States.
As the European Union statement following the Russian presidential election pointed out, we have a common interest in furthering our ties and we hope that our partnership will be consolidated and developed constructively under the presidency of Dmitri Medvedev.
We have learned this from our own experience in the European Union and it is a message that we shall doggedly continue - as neighbours and partners - to convey to our Russian friends both on a day-to-day basis and in discussions about the shape of our future relations.
The vote will take place at the end of the debate.
Otherwise, we will end up in the same situation as the Council of Europe, which has further postponed its own report on Russia until a more appropriate moment.
