This involves the REWE, SPAR, METRO and Kaufland supermarkets, which are not taking delivery of Hungarian products in the wake of a boycott by an Austrian animal rights organisation.
Thank you for your attention. (BG) Mr President, esteemed colleagues, a National Emergency Call 112 System will go into operation in Bulgaria as from 30 September 2008 in implementation of Directive 2002/22/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council.
The technical solution of the Bulgarian 112 system uses state-of-the-art technologies and allows calling line identification.
Under the European neighbourhood policy, the EU will provide Belarus with financial aid to the tune of EUR 20 million for the period 2007-2010.
The most recent occurrence was a tragic accident on 11 August that I would describe as criminal.
Three temporary workers died while testing a lifeboat, and 16 workers were injured.
Hatred of Christianity should be countered in the same way as other extreme forms of intolerance. (PT) Mr President, António Guerreiro, Fernando González, Gerardo Hernández, Ramón Labañino and René González, five Cuban nationals who merely defended their homeland and their fellow countrymen to ensure that they ceased to be victims of terrorist acts promoted and organised by Miami-based groups, have been unjustly imprisoned in the United States since 12 September 1998, almost 10 years ago.
Elizabeth Palmeiros, Ramón Labañino's wife, has been waiting over two years for a visa.
António Guerreiro has had no visits from his family for over a year and a half, and Fernando González has been in the same position for over a year.
The US authorities have prevented Adriana Perez from visiting her husband, Gerardo Hernández, since 12 September 1998, while Olga Salanueva has been unable to visit her husband, René González, since August 2000.
On 15 September the founding meeting of the European Institute of Innovation and Technology was held in Budapest.
Just think of the fact that 12 Nobel Prize winners were Hungarian scientists who participated actively in crucial inventions of the 20th century.
I would like to draw your attention to the unprecedented political consensus reached on this matter in Hungary.
The perplexing thing is that neither the prime minister nor the representatives of the coalition parties are protesting about this, nor are they condemning this damaging and dangerous trend. (BG) Mr President, esteemed colleagues, I would like to turn your attention to the latest in a series of scandals that have erupted in Bulgaria in connection with the EUR 49 million spent by the Ministry of Interior on the use of special surveillance means.
It turns out that after enough money to pay for 15 reconnaissance planes has been spent, the only thing that Bulgarian policemen can say is to report that they were unable to see who planted a bomb in a clandestine brothel in the centre of the capital city.
The US Government's decision to bail out the largest insurance company with a loan of USD 85 billion, the nationalisation of two of the leading mortgage groups, and the bankruptcy of the fourth largest investment bank have created a climate of panic in the United States and considerable anxiety among European citizens.
This is because in a globalised economic environment, it is very likely that the crisis will reach Europe - if it has not already done so - and will hit the banking system and the incomes of European citizens.
lastly, what policy does the European Central Bank intend to follow in order to support European financial institutions? (EL) Mr President, on 26 September the EU celebrates its linguistic diversity.
This is an opportunity to strengthen the teaching of the languages of European migrant workers. (SK) The third consecutive political crisis in Ukraine was probably the reason why the historic second EU-Ukraine Summit that took place in Paris at the beginning of September did not reach more ambitious conclusions concerning the Russia-Georgia conflict.
I personally come from a family which endured 40 years of exile - the same as the duration of Francoism - and if we learned anything at all it was that no political objective was worth the life of a single human being.
For six years, nearly 20 political organisations, within the framework of the forum for representatives from the Carpathian Basin, have debated peaceful opportunities for the enforcement of interests, and they continue to do so: identity, mother tongue, economic relations and autonomy.
Thank you. (EL) Mr President, the Commission wishes to help combat the problem of rising food prices in developing countries and intends to fund those countries to the tune of EUR 1 billion.
