Any shareholdings I have ever had have always been declared in the declaration of interests, and they have never stopped me from criticising some wind-power projects.
Only in that way can we generate the growth which is so badly needed to help citizens right across countries of the European Union.
That is why I voted against this budget.
European military engagement contributed to the prevention of a situation similar to the one in Rwanda.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - I voted in favour of this very reluctantly.
I have thereby decided to support the rapporteur and vote in favour of this report.
The motion for a resolution that is being debated concerns European financing for the period 2010-2013 for the decommissioning of the Kozloduy nuclear power plant in Bulgaria and the mobilisation of the Flexibility Instrument for this purpose, thus honouring a commitment made to Bulgaria during its accession process.
It also concerns additional financing under the Flexibility Instrument for the second phase of the European Economic Recovery Plan (EERP) in the area of energy, since this plan had not yet been adequately financed.
I do not deny that nuclear energy can form part of a well-balanced European energy basket and that its use may lessen our external dependence in this field, but I believe the European Union cannot avoid sharing in the effort to close down that obsolete nuclear facility while also ensuring that economic recovery projects deserve adequate funding.
That created additional pressure on subheading 1a, considerably affecting the dynamics of the negotiations on the 2010 budget and jeopardising Parliament's political priorities.
The additional financing needs in 2011-2013, totalling EUR 225 million, must be addressed in a mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework.
The use of this fund is based on the logic behind the energy strand of the European economic recovery plan.
in writing. - The recovery plan has been one of the Commission's responses to the economic crisis that has plagued Europe in recent years.
The European Economic Recovery Plan (EERP), to which the sum of EUR 5 billion was allocated by Parliament in March 2009, is divided into trans-European energy projects and projects to develop broadband Internet in rural areas.
During the conciliation meeting of 18 November, an agreement was reached by Parliament, the Council and the Commission on financing for the second year (2010) of the EERP, to the sum of EUR 2.4 billion.
This financing, for energy and broadband Internet projects, requires a review of the multiannual financial framework for 2007-2013.
I also endorse the need to extend the 2007-2013 MFF to the years 2015-2016.
The energy strand of the European Economic Recovery Plan contains some striking proposals.
These include the creation of a specific 2020 fund, the increase in state requirements concerning the environmental performance of goods, and the incentive to construct energy-efficient buildings.
The decommissioning of the first-generation Kozloduy nuclear power plant in Bulgaria, for its part, fulfils an urgent requirement.
I particularly welcome the agreement with the Council, which will provide extra aid to the value of EUR 300 million to dairy farmers.
One of the demands the Parliament made at the talks about budget 2010 was that a dairy fund worth EUR 300 million would be provided to deal with the dairy crisis.
Although the Commission agreed with the proposal initially, it wanted to put only EUR 280 million into that fund.
I also welcome the support provided in the budget for the Special Olympic Games organisation and for their request regarding funding for the European Special Olympic Games in Warsaw in 2010 and for the World Special Olympic Games in Athens in 2011.
EUR 6 million has been allocated to the Special Olympic Games, with a provision for further funding to be provided in 2011.
in writing. - (FR) I voted, unenthusiastically, for the European budget for the financial year 2010 so as not to jeopardise the funding of the second section of the European recovery plan (energy infrastructure and broadband Internet), the launch of a new European initiative to promote micro-credit (amounting to EUR 25 million in 2010), or emergency aid for the milk sector (an additional EUR 300 million).
The outcome of the vote on the 2010 budget marks an important step in the drafting and application of joint norms and measures required to regulate the areas of energy, technology, agriculture and infrastructure.
I welcome the allocation of EUR 300 million, although only EUR 280 million had been allocated initially, as immediate aid intended for dairy producers who are facing a collapse in prices, leading to insecurity.
Similarly, the Council's rejection of Parliament's amendment proposing to increase the aid granted to people most in need, at a time of unprecedented economic and social crisis, is highly regrettable, when 2010 has been declared the 'European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion'.
On the other hand, the European Council's announcement, last Friday, of the willingness of the EU and its Member States to contribute to the financing and prompt implementation of EUR 2.4 billion per year from 2010 to 2012 to help developing countries combat climate change is along the right lines.
The plan is an important step in our joint efforts to enable the EU to recover from the financial and economic crisis.
I reiterate that allocating the necessary funds so that small and medium-sized enterprises, which are among the main victims of the crisis, can receive support to help them weather this crisis is essential, and the Structural and Cohesion Funds are crucially important for national economic growth.
I regret, however, that only EUR 300 million, which I regard as too little, has been allocated for the creation of a fund for the dairy farming sector.
This is a budget that will help to fight unemployment and kick-start the economy.
Parliament is prioritising the European Economic Recovery Plan, with financing of EUR 2.4 billion for the coming year.
I welcome the granting of EUR 300 million of additional support to the dairy sector, but I advocate creating a budget heading to establish a permanent fund for this sector.
I also consider it very important that the current multiannual financial framework for 2007-2013 be revised and extended to the 2015-2016 financial years, as we proposed in this budget.
I would point out that the fight against climate change is an EU priority that is not sufficiently addressed in this budget.
Under heading 5, we have a margin of EUR 72 million, which will be used preferentially for financing additional expenditure directly attributable to the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I therefore voted in favour.
We voted against this report, which 'welcomes the overall agreement on Budget 2010', because this is a Community budget that already reflects the priorities set in the Treaty of Lisbon for a European Union that is increasingly neoliberal and militaristic and less and less concerned with economic and social cohesion.
In the midst of an economic and social crisis that is having terrible effects on employment and people's living conditions, it is unacceptable for the Community draft budget to have EUR 11 billion less in payments than was projected in the financial perspective.
Especially significant are the agreements concerning means for realisation of the European Economic Recovery Plan, including projects in the field of energy, for which EUR 1 980 million has been reserved.
A sum of EUR 420 million will be allocated to increasing the availability of broadband Internet, which will contribute to realisation of the principles of the Lisbon Strategy.
Costs related to the European Council and the President are estimated at EUR 23.5 million and will be met with savings from 2009, whereas costs associated with establishment of the External Action Service may exceed even the EUR 72 million which is currently in the budget reserve for 2010.
The funds in the reserve may turn out to be insufficient, and then it will be essential to make a correction to the budget.
It was somewhat unenthusiastically that I voted in favour of the 2010 budget, since it is no match for the challenges that we have to face, not only in this context of serious economic and social crisis, but also in view of the fight against climate change.
I am particularly pleased that, although this is the last budget negotiated on the basis of the Treaty of Nice and although, on this basis, the European Parliament has no formal decision-making authority on agricultural spending, we have succeeded in negotiating a budgetary item of EUR 300 million to support dairy farmers.
The 2010 EU budget respects the previous commitments assumed at European level with regard to the European Economic Recovery Plan.
For example, the commitments made by the President of the European Commission at the end of 2008 were retained and innovative measures were also introduced, such as the Preparatory Action - Erasmus for young entrepreneurs.
In addition, good prospects are being created for dealing with the matter of the borders in the eastern part of the European Union, as well as for the Black Sea Basin area, given that resources have been allocated for preparatory action aimed at environmental monitoring of the Black Sea Basin and for a common European framework programme for developing this region.
This fund is purely and simply about putting a socialist slant on the senseless relocations of large groups such as Ford, Nokia and Dell.
The sum of EUR 300 million has also been approved for the textile sector, something that Parliament had been demanding for a long time.
The pilot projects to halt desertification and to preserve jobs are also extremely relevant in these times of economic crisis.
in writing. - (ES) This budget will not help to resolve the economic, social and environmental problems facing the European Union which have been aggravated by the crisis.
I am sure that the new plan will provide a renewed impetus for economic growth, competitiveness, cohesion and job protection in Europe, at the same time showing that the EU budget is a tool aimed at putting European citizens first and which can provide specific responses so as to be instrumental in helping to overcome the recent economic crisis that has affected our continent.
The allocation of EUR 300 million to overcome the crisis in the milk sector is also very effective.
This represents an additional EUR 20 million compared with the Council recommendation, which we can only welcome.
This block contains intervention and support measures that we oppose, including various stockpiling measures - such as for alcohol - and extensive EU support for the wine sector.
It acknowledges that all countries in the Union are facing growing challenges in relation to policies covered by this heading, and urges the Member States to make use of the increase in funding for freedom, security and justice relative to the 2009 budget so that they can together face these and any new challenges that may arise by promoting a common immigration policy that is as inclusive as possible but grounded in absolute respect for human rights.
in writing. - I welcome the outcome of this vote on the 2010 budget.
Of particular importance is the EUR 300 million which will be allocated to the dairy sector following the recent crisis.
The Council finally agreed to the European Parliament's request for this amount, having previously argued for EUR 280 million.
There is also significant funding being allocated to the second stage of the Economic Recovery Plan - EUR 2.4 billion - which includes vital support for energy (including renewable energy) projects and infrastructure, as well as EUR 420 million to provide broadband access in rural areas.
The vote on the European Union budget is an annual institutional landmark whereby the commitment to Community programmes is confirmed and Parliament's role is emphasised.
I welcome the conclusion of the second phase of funding for the European Economic Recovery Plan for 2009 and 2010, since economic and employment recovery are major concerns for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) in the current crisis.
I voted in favour of the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2010 as modified by the Council (all sections) and for the Letters of Amendment to the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2010.
The 2010 EU budget provides considerable sums for the commitments made through the European Economic Recovery Plan, such as power networks (EUR 1 175 million), the European offshore wind power network (EUR 208 million) and capture and geological storage of carbon (EUR 523.2 million).
I am pleased that EUR 20 million has been reserved for the Baltic Sea Strategy.
I am thinking of the support for the Special Olympics, which will be held in Warsaw and Athens, grants for young people from countries included in the programme of the European Neighbourhood Policy and establishment of the Bronisław Geremek Chair of European Civilisation at the College of Europe in Natolin.
I gave my full support to the resolution tabled by my colleague, Mr Cashman, in order to call on the Commission and the Council to review the rules on access to European institutional documents, in accordance with the clauses on transparency laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon.
It is vitally important to make European action more transparent and to permit the broadest possible access to European institutional documents in order to give European citizens a greater understanding of how the Union works.
It is therefore essential to find a balance on this subject.
in writing. - (FR) I voted resolutely in favour of the ambitious European Parliament resolution on access to documents for the citizens.
The right of citizens to access European institutional documents, in any form, is now enshrined in Article 42 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The resolution presented to us goes far beyond the transparency required by citizens and, therefore, I have voted against it.
Any measures aimed at improving conditions in these countries are very important.
I have voted in favour of the joint resolution on Belarus, because it gives a balanced presentation of the situation and highlights both the positive aspects and progress made and the democratic deficit in many areas.
The resolution on Belarus is an important signal from the European Union and from Europe.
We cannot ease sanctions against Belarus if there is no noticeable progress in the direction of democratisation of the country.
The European Parliament, which is composed of Members from 27 Member States, is an expression of democracy and cooperation.
The only measures which we can and will support are democratic measures, because they are the foundation of the European Union.
in writing. - (LT) I voted for the resolution on Belarus with some doubt, because in the European Parliament, documents on Belarus are adopted too often and are thus devalued.
In order for there to be a fundamental improvement in relations between the European Union, its Member States and Belarus, Belarus must steer towards reforms and democratisation.
In Lithuania, 39 towns and regions are cooperating productively with Belarusian towns and regions, exchanging experience and participating in joint projects.
This sexual violence is becoming widespread and is today being perpetrated not only by the warring parties but also by civilians.
However, this zero tolerance policy must not only be ambitious - every single perpetrator of the atrocities, without exception, will have to answer for his actions - but must also be applied in practice.
Even if these phenomena have their origins in the European decolonisation process and the way the borders were drawn, that cannot release African leaders and decision makers from their responsibilities or from calling on civil society in those countries to take decisive control of their own destinies.
It is therefore very important to urge all parties in this conflict to cease hostilities so that the people of those regions can once again live in a climate of peace.
This joint motion for a resolution on the Democratic Republic of Congo reflects the complicated situation in this African country.
It is important that this issue is resolved.
It must ensure that the March 2009 agreements on the ceasefire are respected effectively and in good faith.
