Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 30 March 2000.
Nothing has been done although there was an instant reaction from the Commission when the fact that 12 million people are under threat of famine in Ethiopia came to public attention.
I have been in this House since 1984, and rarely have I seen such neglect - such wilful neglect - by the European Union in dealing with a famine of this kind that we knew was on our doorstep.
It is a great shame that every time an issue like this is raised with Commissioner Nielson, or raised with the Commission, he passes it off as if it did not matter - as if he did not believe this was happening.
Commissioner Nielson must come to this House and explain his use of PR men and spin doctors in this disgraceful display of neglect.
Mr Andrews, there is of course no need to start a debate on the subject.
I should just like to point out that in a few moments the House will be voting on whether to add another item to the 'Human Rights' section and one of the proposals made by two groups is specifically to do with the problem of the famine in Ethiopia.
Madam President, as many of us know, last Friday saw the inauguration in Vienna of the Monitoring Centre for Racism, Xenophobia and Antisemitism.
Some members of staff of the European Parliament both here and in Brussels, when they try to enforce European Parliament rules - in other words, no smoking in no-smoking areas or any of the other European Parliament rules - are sworn at and abused by some Members of Parliament.
Thank you, Mr Seppänen.
Madam President, at least three times I went searching for our Finnish colleague to assure him, as I was assured in the last plenary part-session, that he would be handed a card that would enable him to not just hear, but to see Finnish television in Parliament.
In the College of Quaestors we have also discussed - because we too are concerned - robberies that are taking place within Parliament.
Thank you, Mrs Banotti.
Our plans, therefore, remain unchanged, and this means that if, on Friday, the necessary 209 Members are not present, then the vote will not take place.
Thank you, Mr Miller.
Mr van Velzen, you will have the opportunity to make your comments in just a moment, as we are about to move on to the agenda.
Agenda The next item is the examination of the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
Sittings in Strasbourg from 10 to 14 April 2000: Relating to Tuesday: The Council has informed us that it did not wish to make a statement on Iraq at the present time.
This being the case, I had a request from the Group of the Party of European Socialists to bring forward the Council and Commission statements on the Turkish situation, which are currently scheduled for Wednesday 12 April.
Mr van Velzen, the Council is indeed in attendance on Wednesday, I am assured.
We shall then be able to withdraw our proposal under item I.
In other words, Mr Haarder, you would like us to move directly to the proposal to replace item IV 'World forum on education' with an item on 'Iraq' , which you tabled in case your first proposal was not adopted.
Madam President, I should be glad if we could vote on item IV before I decide about that.
Madam President, since we now have Ethiopia, which we wanted to add, elsewhere on the agenda, I would like to ask the mover of the motion whether he would agree to adding Zimbabwe as a fifth point.
I then received five proposals to add a fifth sub-item to the 'Human Rights' section.
Madam President, I would like to be clear that if we have agreed that Zimbabwe would be the fifth point then there is no point in voting in any other points because we already have five points on the agenda.
Mr Elles, first of all, I am going to suggest that we enter Zimbabwe as the fifth sub-item in the 'Human Rights' section, since I believe that is in line with what we have just agreed.
Madam President, I would like to speak in favour of adopting a resolution in connection with the oral question to the Commission on the consequences of last December' s storms.
Do you mean after the oral question on the storms?
Madam President, in 1996 I had the great honour of representing the UK Government at the World Congress, which was held in Stockholm, Sweden, under United Nations auspices, on the subject of the sexual exploitation of children.
In our report we have entered a definition which we hope will be acceptable internationally.
We can only deal with this matter if we deal with it in an international fashion.
We are faced with a difficult task, not only in regard to the definition which we have decided to offer, but also because so many countries have different attitudes as to what, for instance, is a child.
I wish to offer my thanks, as rapporteur, to all those who have been concerned, not only on my own committee - the Committee on Citizen's Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs - but also on the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and on the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport as well.
In my own committee this report was adopted with 27 votes in favour and one abstention.
The initiative of the Republic of Austria with a view to adopting a Council Decision to combat child pornography on the Internet will place an obligation on the Member States, and obligation is the crucial word here, to take measures to combat child pornography on the Internet.
Parents are powerless in the face of this phenomenon because they cannot keep up with this technological progress.
We must not, therefore, simply act in a preventative fashion; we must offer long-term help to those children affected. - (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the need has grown over the last ten years for a policy for children, based on the 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which has been ratified by all Member States.
The attention that has been paid to this issue has increased considerably in all Member States.
The evolution of the Internet, its incredibly rapid development and its importance today raise the question of its use for these reprehensible purposes.
The problem of crime on the Internet cannot be resolved by any state in isolation.
I would like to congratulate Mr Kirkhope on his report.
All the proposed measures are suitable and necessary to effectively combat child pornography.
The existence of these networks confirms the need for a common judicial area.
The common judicial area does exist with Europol, Schengen and Eurodac.
For all these reasons I think the European Union must make combating this form of crime a priority.
The legitimately and ultimately repressive message of this report will only be heard and be useful if, at the same time, we clearly reassert the basis of a life-enhancing culture, a culture which respects life, applicable to all people in all places, and if, at Member State and Union level, we provide the practical resources necessary to achieve this.
The first phenomenon is the boom in pornography in general, and the second is, obviously, the exploitation of children for sexual purposes.
The Internet, Minitel, the post are nothing more than the medium.
This matter has preoccupied us for a long time, too long in my opinion.
However, I share the view of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport that we should have fixed the age limit at 18 and I hope that the initiatives will lead to the highest possible age limit being set in all Member States.
Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Member States of the EU are so resolutely and actively supporting this Austrian proposal and not just taking refuge in soundbites and clichés.
My fourth point is that the register of persons who have been convicted of the distribution of child pornography or of the sexual abuse of children will hopefully be implemented across Europe as quickly as possible and that access will be available to all Member States and Europol.
I would also like to appeal to the Member States, in the interests of the most vulnerable members of society, to implement as quickly and efficiently as possible the measures proposed by the rapporteur in his excellent report and by the Austrian initiative.
As has already been stressed, the aim is to intensify actions to prevent and combat the sexual abuse of children, with particular reference to the production, possession and distribution of child pornography through the Internet.
The Austrian initiative to reintroduce the draft joint action to combat child pornography on the Internet, on which Parliament has already delivered a favourable opinion, is welcomed by the Commission.
The Commission has been closely involved in international activities and initiatives addressing this issue, such as the International Conference on combating child pornography on the Internet, which was held from 29 September to 1 October 1999 in Vienna.
The Commission has long been concerned about child pornography on the Net.
The Council and Parliament adopted it on 25 January 1999.
It is also involved in the current negotiations on a draft convention on cyber crime in the framework of the Council of Europe that will address the specific problem of paedo-pornography on the Internet.
The Commission fully supports the position expressed in the draft report that the subject of child pornography on the Internet should involve the approximation of the laws and regulations of the Member States.
The Commission will participate fully in the discussions that will take place in the Council with a view to adopting this draft decision in order to see whether further action should and would be needed.
The debate is closed.
But encounters between people from different cultures are not always simple, and they should therefore be helped along, just as refugees should be given support to begin new lives in their new locations.
The European Refugee Fund is a first and very modest attempt to distribute resources in proportion to the tasks which individual Member States promise to undertake.
We are talking about EUR 26 million to cover the fixed expenses of the current work, distributed among 15 Member States.
All in all, however, the European Refugee Fund is, in fact, to be regarded as a start.
The Commission is obviously on the right track.
However, the Committee on Budgets is raising two objections.
The second objection is more extensive.
Asylum-seekers are not a burden but a responsibility.
A proposed amendment from our committee requires that all measures under this fund should be based on an approach designed to prevent any outbreak of xenophobia, racism, discrimination or inequality.
Not to take such an approach would be short-sighted, as others have already pointed out.
Needless to say, the values will depend on the influx of asylum seekers in each country, the number of people granted refugee status, obviously in accordance with the Geneva Convention, and the number of displaced persons received.
In this respect, Amendment No 19 deals with refugees, while Amendment No 21 focuses on displaced persons.
The Fund should help to balance up the differences between Member States in the acceptance and integration of persons in need of protection.
They campaigned against Denmark' s joining the single currency, which we are to vote on in September, and they have been on the "no" side in four out of the five previous Danish referenda.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great relief that we welcomed the proposed Council decision on the creation of a European Refugee Fund.
The report shows the extent to which parliamentary activity can be beneficial to Europe.
Finally, in conclusion, I should like once again to stress the ever more insistent need for Member States to arrive quickly at common legislation in matters of asylum.
Mr President, allow me first of all to emphasise that, in the referendum on the Edinburgh Agreement in 1993, the Danish people declined to participate in EU cooperation on legal issues, and Denmark is not, therefore, bound by any legal obligations to allow the EU to decide which refugees are to be received by Denmark.
And one cannot in all decency receive money from the EU if one will not also allow the EU to decide which refugees are to be allocated to which countries.
Since 1997, we have been trying to carry out coherent work in this respect, and we have had some successes.
However, in order to be fully successful, we need a legal basis to ensure the continuity of the work on improving the reception, the integration, or, where they wish it, the satisfactory return of the asylum seekers and refugees present in the European Union.
Those are three different areas of work.
The Member States have a major role to play in this respect and must make considerable efforts.
However, as she herself did, I would like to point out a few problems which, in our opinion, are still important and which need to be remedied.
In practice, the countries which take in the greatest number of refugees will probably receive the most funds.
The proposal is to establish a permanent European Fund distributing appropriations to assist Member States in managing their countries' usual flow of refugees, genuine or not.
In such conditions, the risk of things spiralling out of control and of financial abuse is very great indeed, Mr President, and the report itself even implies as much when it states that the planned appropriations, even though they still amount to EUR 36 million, are much less than the potential demand.
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group considers that there is just one solution if we want to halt this risk: for each Member State to retain financial responsibility for the reception of refugees, and for European solidarity to be kept only for exceptional tragic circumstances. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many of us have repeatedly called for the European Refugee Fund to be established.
What must in one case be met with policies of support for integration must, in others, in the interests of the refugees themselves, be met with policies of support for a return to the country or region which they were forced to flee.
You know better than I do that the proposed Council decision on this Fund was adopted by the Commission on 14 December 1999.
The Fund is a single instrument combining support for Member State actions on the reception, integration and voluntary repatriation of refugees and displaced persons, which were previously dealt with in joint actions and pilot projects on the basis of appropriations allocated annually to the Community budget on the initiative of the European Parliament.
I think that adopting this Fund contribute to showing that, in this area, the European Union as such can provide added value for the efforts of each individual Member State.
The Commission has already pointed out to the Parliament' s Committee on Budgets that it intends to propose, in its preliminary draft budget for 2001, the financial means to maintain the Fund for the next five years.
In other words, the Commission will propose increasing the EUR 36 million for the year 2000 to EUR 45 million for the following years, thus taking the overall allocation for the five years to EUR 216 million.
The European Refugee Fund will be able to cofinance Member State actions up to 50%, a level which can be increased to 75% for Member States benefiting from the Cohesion Fund.
Together with my fellow Commissioner, Michaele Schreyer, I have already initiated discussions on the ways of utilising, in the event of an emergency, the maximum possible resources suited to the needs of the situation.
In this area, however, what worries me more than the figures - because, unfortunately or fortunately, the necessary funds cannot be provided to respond to emergencies such as Kosovo - and what we are looking for is some financial and also administrative mechanism sufficiently perfected to fulfil needs efficiently in an emergency situation.
As regards amendments, the Commission has taken note of all the proposed amendments and can accept, conditional upon some formal reworking, in some cases, the principles behind a number of them which aim to make the objectives of the European Refugee Fund clearer in the introduction, or to make some terms more precise.
One particular case is the mention, in the introduction, of the importance of NGO activities, and there are some useful clarifications, such as transparency in the project selection process, or the need to promote the long-term continuity of projects.
In this decision it is important to avoid anything which might add to their workload and slow the process down, without allowing for the fact that the amounts involved are not vast and that if this decision for the year 2000 is adopted this year, that will not leave much time to prepare cofinancing requests.
The Commission proposes to take on board some of the ideas put forward in the amendments in terms of defining the practical arrangements for the implementation of this instrument and for the dialogue to be entered into with the relevant national bodies.
The Fund is intended to contribute to balancing Member State efforts.
In conclusion, Mr President, the Commission is delighted to see the European Parliament support this initiative.
Thank you very much, Mr Vitorino.
The debate is closed.
I am very aware of the fact that any amendments to the Council common position are likely to carry a real risk that the directive will be lost in conciliation, since the directive was, and continues to be, a very delicate compromise.
So the question for us as Members of the European Parliament is whether the proposed amendments are absolutely necessary compared to the potential risk that we do not get the supervisory framework at all.
Amendments Nos 1 and 2 add the words "at par value" to the report.
These additional words are not absolutely necessary as Article 3 sets out the terms for redeemability.
In this latter case the additional words would add nothing and be misleading to the consumer.
Adding the words "at par value" to Article 3(1) may mislead the consumer since it is always possible to deduct the charges that are strictly necessary to carry out that operation.
According to the common position Member States may allow their competent authorities to waive the application of some or all of the provisions of the proposed directive.
The waiver is possible in cases where the total amount of e-money issued is limited and where the e-money issued is accepted as a means of payments by only a limited number of undertakings.
For example, the waiver could be used for university campus payment cards or for local transport systems.
The Council was able to agree its common position only because it felt that a directive, which included a waiver but tightened regulation and permitted competition in a single market, was better than no directive at all.
Should the recommendation be adopted here without any amendments, I would ask that the Commission and the Council make use of what is in the directive and submit to Parliament a brief report on the consequences of the directives with any amendments which might be necessary.
Mr President, electronic money does not yet have the same importance in the European Union as e-commerce, e-business, e-Europe.
I think that electronic money will gain in importance, not just in commerce but also for consumers, particularly as the safety precautions on the Internet are regarded as inadequate and many are therefore hesitant to choose this option.
It is, of course, also important to consider the role of the European Central Bank - controlling the amount of money in circulation, for example.
For this reason I cannot support the new wording of Article 8c.
I think that we must do everything possible to increase consumer confidence in the electronic money age and not to build consumer foundations which have no stability.
Mr President, it is very regrettable that this common position, which has been put together with such care by the Council and which paid due respect to the Parliament's views at first reading, is now in the process of unravelling.
The concerns, particularly about the waiver, are misguided precisely because it would be very limited: it would be limited to only EUR 150 on any particular card.
Therefore, in the years before the ECB took charge of euro-zone monetary policy, the Bundesbank itself was not able to respect the growth of its money supply targets.
That is very regrettable.
There are a lot of safeguards that the Commission has put in here that the Council has carefully discussed and I very much hope that we will fully support the Council common position on this matter.
Mr President, as from January 1999, the euro has been the new currency for most of the European Union.
The conclusion of that survey clearly demonstrated that costs for consumers of transferring money from one country to another in Europe are still too high.
I do not think that it will be helped by the amendments being proposed inside this Parliament today and indeed in our committee.
May I also express the appreciation of the European Commission for the continuing support from this Parliament for the e-money initiative and, indeed, for all the Commission's e-commerce initiatives.
The Commission has noticed the high level of cooperation between Parliament, Council and Commission in reaching an early agreement on the e-money proposals.
The provision on redeemability, which was proposed by this Parliament at the first reading - a first reading which took place almost a year ago - and was accepted by the Council, is clear.
On this basis, and for this reason, I cannot regrettably accept the first two amendments.
Amendments Nos 3 and 4 propose substantially to limit the circumstances in which Member States may waive the application of some or all of the provisions of the directive to certain limited electronic money schemes; here I am concerned because of a misunderstanding on the waiver provisions.
These provisions are optional, they are limited in their application to specific identifiable schemes and they are on a case by case basis.
As stated by Mr Skinner, under the e-money procedure the customer first pays in his money and then gets the equivalent amount of electronic money.
Therefore considerations of monetary supply or monetary stability - as one Member put it, e-money as a vector of credit - simply do not apply.
Regrettably, therefore, I cannot accept Amendments Nos 3 or 4.
Turning to Amendment No 5, which amends the text so as to prohibit Member States from waiving the redeemability requirement but does not limit in any other way the provisions of Article 8 allowing Member States to waive the provisions of the directive in respect of certain limited schemes, the Commission's view of this amendment is somewhat less unfriendly than it is regarding Amendments Nos 1 to 4.
Animal nutrition inspections The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0084/2000) on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive 95/53/EC fixing the principles governing the organisation of official inspections in the field of animal nutrition 10804/1/1999 - C5-0273/1999 - 1998/0301(COD) (Rapporteur: Mr Staes) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, practice has shown that scandals and crises can have a cleansing effect and can help improve legislation.
In Flanders, where I come from, we now have what I would term, without hesitation, the strictest national hormone legislation in Europe following a whole series of attacks on meat inspectors and the murder of the devoted veterinary surgeon, Karel Van Noppen.
As early as 16 December of that same year, Parliament assented to this proposal without tabling one single amendment.
After the Treaty of Amsterdam came into effect, the Commission immediately changed the legal basis of 100 A to 152.
This legislation offers us various procedures for transferring the powers of the Council to the Commission.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is now submitting four amendments in plenary to Mr Staes' s report.
The Council is then obliged, within 30 days, to process these measures, to validate them and to legitimise or, if necessary, reject them.
Europe and the internal market can only exist if they are also accepted by the citizens and the consumers.
Mr President, the rapporteur said in his introduction that crises have a cleansing effect.
I therefore hope that, tomorrow, we will actually slap the Council of Ministers in the face by unanimously affirming the rapporteur' s four amendments.
The Council does not therefore see what we have seen, which is that as a follow-up to European legislation it is necessary to have structures to monitor and take fast action in the event of a problem.
I particularly appreciate the good collaboration with Parliament in this case.
In 1998, the detection of dioxin in some raw materials imported into the Community showed the need for a legal basis to permit the Commission when confronted by a serious risk to public health to adopt safeguard measures on products from third countries.
The proposal also extends the legal basis to carry out on-the-spot inspections, both in Member States and in third countries.
The Commission, although not opposed to most of the amendments made by the Council, strongly rejected the Council amendment concerning the safeguard procedure.
Council has denied the possibility for the Commission to take immediate action in emergency cases without consulting Member States beforehand.
The possibility for the Commission situations to react quickly in emergency cases even before consulting Member States is a landmark question.
The discussion in the present case constitutes an important precedent for the future.
In the recent proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council adopted on 21 March, the Commission introduced the same safeguard clause concerning feedingstuffs produced within the European Union.
Consequently, this question will also be relevant for several measures on feedingstuffs which are of vital importance and which are announced in the White Paper on food safety.
For all these reasons, I can fully accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, and 4 by which Parliament reintroduces the original provision on safeguard procedures.
A survey of the current situation shows that 307 additives are authorised within the European Union.
Not reducing the list, but extending it a little further since the Commission has made nine proposals, either to add certain additives to the list or to extend the uses of some already authorised additives.
As for the risks to the consumer, apparently these are not very significant, but the Scientific Committees which have looked into the matter do consider that the laxative effect of this additive is likely to combine with other problems of the same type.
E467 is problematic in terms of assessing its harmlessness, because it contains extremely dangerous impurities.
Finally, three other additives are proposed as propellants.
I think it is important, Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to reverse the trend in the current legislation on additives.
The use of E 467 - I will not attempt to pronounce the full word - as proposed by the Commission, seems to meet this requirement.
Mr President, our foodstuffs - and this also applies to entirely fresh produce, for example the peeled carrots we heard mentioned today - are nowadays doctored in all kinds of ways with colouring agents, sweeteners, flavour enhancers and preservatives, in fact with every possible type of substance.
And all in order to disguise the products' natural characteristics.
I think that Community policy in relation to the use of additives has developed in a quite irresponsible way.
It is a problem which Mr Lannoye also mentioned in his intervention, namely the question of adding nitrates and nitrites to meat products.
I hope that Commissioner Byrne, who has assumed responsibility for this area, will examine the question of added amounts of nitrates and nitrites.
Mr President, the report is concerned with supplementing a list of permitted additives with additional foodstuff additives, other than colouring agents and flavourings.
The Commission only offers talk of the precautionary principle, whereas Mr Lannoye has shown in his report that it is also about implementing it in practice and actually making the precautionary principle a keynote.
As is well known, there are three prior conditions which must be fulfilled if additives are to be included on the positive list.
In addition to what Mr Lund has said about nitrites and nitrates, I would mention that, in the course of the last part-session, I asked the Commission if the newly discovered scientific facts about these two substances' effects on health had caused the Commission to review its position.
Ethylhydroxyethylcellulose has, however, been used for more than 20 years in Sweden and Finland, and I think also in Norway, as a binding agent in gluten-free bread and pastries.
However, I maintain that in reality the opposite may be true.
He has done a service to the committee and also to this House by pointing out that this procedure appears to be almost always one-way.
We need to hear from the Commission on two points of principle: the first is whether the procedures themselves need review as the Commission spokesman suggested in the debate in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy; secondly, whether there is a more efficacious way of removing additives as well as bringing them into effect.
It seems to us that the list is getting larger and that the burden of proof must remain with those, be they in Member States, in the Commission or in the Scientific Committees, who want us to adapt these things.
I am prepared to accept that some of these are harmless.
We all want to look again at this issue and see why they have been chosen and whether we might now hold back any clearance of them, at least until the review which is suggested has been carried through.
We would prefer to strike out recital 5 and we shall so vote.
Finally, as regards Amendment No 2 in the name of my Group, this is purely a drafting amendment to remove references to the codecision procedure.
The rapporteur rightly wonders if the additives added to our foodstuffs are really necessary and, more especially, if they are really harmless.
Approved additives are safe and present no risk to public health.
Food additives are only permitted if it is demonstrated that there is a technological need for them and consumers are not misled and will benefit from having a choice of new products with better quality.
Several of the additives now proposed for use have been temporarily authorised by some Member States.
Provided that the opinions of the Scientific Committee are respected, technological need is demonstrated and consumers are not misled, Community legislation should recognise the experience of the Member States in the use of these additives.
The amendments proposed do not sufficiently take into account the opinions of the Scientific Committee for Food and the technological need that exists in some Member States.
As to the first amendment, the application of the precautionary principle is not appropriate as has been mentioned by a number of speakers this evening.
The Commission does not believe that Amendments Nos 2 and 6 are necessary or appropriate in respect of this directive.
The Commission is sponsoring this directive on the basis of the well-established criteria that the additives in question are safe, as evaluated by the Scientific Committee for Food, that there is a technological need and that consumers are not misled and will benefit from having a choice of more products with better quality.
However, it is my own belief that such an amendment could be appropriate in Framework Directive 89/107 of 21 December 1998, and that document is referred to in the annex to the White Paper at entry No 42.
First of all, in relation to sodium alginate, a number of speakers mentioned the fact that this particular proposal would have the effect of misleading consumers because it was designed for the purpose of keeping the carrots fresh.
I would have strong reserves about approaching a particular problem in that way and therefore we should give full regard to the opinions of Scientific Committees.
Mr Whitehead asked me if we should give some consideration to a more effective way of removing additives.
Not only Mr Whitehead but also some other speakers made reference to this.
I would ask you, therefore, to be a little more circumspect before rejecting all the amendments out of hand, since I can also claim to have made a scientific study of the situation.
