Cultural industries in Europe (debate) The next item is the report by Guy Bono, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on cultural industries in Europe.
In this report, at the level of the Member States I recommend private/public funding as well as the promotion of a regulatory and fiscal framework that favours cultural industries, and more specifically the application of tax credits and reduced rates of VAT to all cultural products, including online works.
Thirdly, this report proposes that culture be better incorporated into the European Union's external policies because - and I want to stress this - what makes Europe so rich is its culture or rather, as I should have said, the diversity of its culture.
On this subject, I strongly oppose the position of some Member States whose repressive measures are dictated by industries incapable of changing their economic model in line with the needs imposed by the information society.
Rather than criminalising consumers, we need to set up new economic models that strike a balance between the ability to access cultural activities and content, cultural diversity and genuine remuneration for those who hold intellectual property rights.
I would like to add that it defines our Community much more than business or geography.
I would like to underline just three specific ideas or items from your report, because there are many and I will not comment on all of them.
And we are increasingly including cultural elements both in our development cooperation and in our bilateral relations with emerging economies.
Third, I agree with you that full attention has to be paid to implementing Article 151 fully in EU policies.
The Commission will support all these efforts, in particular with a study to better understand the links between culture, creativity and innovation, as well as another study on how to have an environment conducive to the development of creative and cultural industries, including support for small and medium-sized enterprises and risk-taking.
The results of these initiatives will feed into a Green Paper on cultural and creative industries, which the Commission plans to publish in 2009.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, new technologies are gaining ever greater weight in Europe's cultural industry.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rigid debate between the concept of culture as purely an end in itself on the one hand and the total 'marketisation' of culture on the other is forced open by the Bono report.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, Europe has a rich and diverse cultural heritage and one which enriches our lives, not just aesthetically but economically.
It shows higher growth than the economy in general and over five million people are employed in it.
Briefly, my proposal emphasises the positive role which the Internet has played in culture and democracy, but it also rejects the idea of banning individual citizens from access to the Internet.
In addition, cultural industries and creators, including SMEs, due to their dual cultural and economic roles, contribute both to promoting cultural diversity and to creating new jobs and possibilities for economic development and, given that they are part of one of the most dynamic sectors our economy, aid for the creative sector should be seen as an investment.
Modern European culture only began when Dante and Petrarch began writing in Italian.
The reason for the development of European civilisation has always been the spread of human individuality, its spiritual progress and the fact that peoples have made use of this to enrich the content of their own collective life. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, culture is a particularly strong and economic factor for us all, and we have seen that it generates multi-billion amounts in Europe, that millions of employees have a part in it and that many small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, are active in this field and are becoming very creatively and passionately active in the population.
Madam President, I would very much like to thank Mr Bono for this report, which highlights the important role of the creative and cultural industries and, particularly, the increasing part they play in our economy.
London is diverse in culture and thriving in its creativity and, as the cultural industries represent a significant sector of London's economy, I very much welcome the recommendations to support their sustainability and growth.
The report emphasises the role of culture in Community politics, and also the role of cultural education in the development of personality and a sense of identity.
They are an important source of job creation in creative areas that contribute significantly to a more competitive European Union.
The calls to support cultural and creative industries through better qualification, education and training systems, in particular by seeking to provide students at all levels of education in cultural and artistic disciplines with professional training, reflect this situation.
Culture is about more than money but it is important to see it as a creative asset, as something that creates jobs and helps to develop the economy.
I believe, like many of you here today, that we must achieve a balance between accessing culture and its accessibility, communication and cultural opportunities on the one hand, and protecting intellectual property rights on the other hand.
The permission for a merger between Sony and BMG granted by the Commission totally contradicts the European policy to support SMEs in the music industry, which create more jobs than the large companies and represent 99% of the market players and 80% of innovation in this sector.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 10 April 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - Culture and creativity play a central role in promoting European citizenship.
In 2004 3.1% of the EU active population was working in this sector.
The relationship between cultural activities and the economy in Malta and Gozo can be assessed by a recent 2007 study made by the National Statistics Office involving a total of 5086 participants enrolled in 34 dance schools.
These dance schools employed 109 persons and generated a financial surplus of nearly 400 000 Euro.
in writing. - My region, the West Midlands, is leading the way in developing creative industries, with more than one in ten now employed in the sector.
The EU must support creativity for more innovation and entrepreneurship.
in writing. - As the production of material goods is increasingly mechanised and outsourced, more people in Europe engage their talents in producing cultural goods.
The KEA study commissioned by the European Commission significantly underestimates the contribution of cultural industries to our economy and society.
Pop culture carries cultural and social messages.
