&#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to talk about our agenda.
I believe that it would have been appropriate for our House to have given its opinion on that subject. &#160;&#160; Mrs&#160;Berès, this is not a point of order.
I appreciate that you wish to talk about this issue, but if you have risen on a point of order, I am afraid that the Presidency must inform you that this is not one and that unfortunately I cannot allow you to carry on speaking. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the right to freedom of expression and respect for religious beliefs. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the controversy we have seen in recent weeks over the caricatures that appeared in a Danish newspaper undoubtedly represents a most regrettable development, in that it touches on something the EU Member States and the EU itself have been striving for over many years: mutual trust and constructive cooperation among the various religious communities in our countries.
The trust and goodwill seen in all the Member States and also expressed by the institutions of the European Union in recent years seem to have been badly shaken.
EU representations and other Member State institutions in various countries have been attacked and damaged.
This is a deeply regrettable development, which must prompt us to ask ourselves what has gone wrong and what can be done to prevent such events in future.
A number of principles of our co-existence are at stake and should be discussed in conjunction with this issue.
The Council Presidency has been exercising its own political responsibility since the very start of these events.
As early as 30&#160;January, the Council assured Denmark, Sweden and all the other countries concerned of its complete solidarity, whilst the Ministers for Foreign Affairs in the Council also emphasised the importance of freedom of the press and freedom of expression, which represent a cornerstone of the values championed by the European Union.
Freedom of expression is an important asset, one we must defend and, indeed, for which we have fought long in our societies throughout European history.
The joint statement by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Secretary General of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy of 7&#160;February was very important in this regard, putting particular emphasis on responsible conduct where people’s religious convictions are concerned as well as on freedom of expression, which entails responsibility – a personal responsibility – on the part of the press.
The statement of 7&#160;February I referred to also rejects and condemns violent attacks and calls for dialogue.
On 8&#160;February, Ursula Plassnik, Austrian Minister for Foreign Affairs and President of the General Affairs and External Relations Council, had a telephone conversation with Abdullah Gül, Turkish Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs.
Our involvement of Turkey in the endeavours to calm the situation has been a conscious decision, as that country is particularly well placed to play a very active, constructive role in promoting dialogue between Europe and the Islamic world.
Austria has also, therefore, invited the High Level Group on the alliance of civilisations – which is under the auspices of the United Nations – to hold its next meeting in Austria.
Austrian Chancellor Schüssel, President of the European Council, issued a statement, also on 8&#160;February, expressing his consternation at images on the website of an Islamic emigrants’ organisation in Antwerp and at the call by the Iranian newspaper for a Holocaust-cartoon contest.
As you know, the High Representative for the CFSP, Javier Solana, is currently in the Middle East.
On 13&#160;February, he met with the Secretary General of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu, to discuss the possibility of a targeted dialogue between Europe and the Islamic world.
The Secretary General and the High Representative will continue this discussion with the Secretary General of the League of Arab States and with representatives of Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Jordan, the Palestinian Authority and Israel.
The Council, and also individual Member States, will actively promote the dialogue with the Islamic world and continue along this path of dialogue between civilisations, and between religious communities.
The possibility of enhanced dialogue between the EU and the Islamic world will be an important topic at the next General Affairs and External Relations Council on 27 and 28&#160;February.
I have already emphasised the importance to EU values of freedom of expression and freedom of the press, and on no account should this hard-won freedom from censorship be put at risk.
The Court has also stated, however, that this freedom of expression must of course be subject to limits; that is, where the feelings – particularly religious feelings – of others could be offended.
The EU’s political leadership must now take the form of our conveying credibly that freedom of expression and respect for other cultures and religions do not contradict each other, but rather complement and are compatible with each other.
We must communicate to our Muslim fellow citizens in the EU that this Union is a good place, where they and the adherents of other religions are respected and can feel at home, and where they have the opportunity of democratic participation.
It is important that our response to this challenge be based, in particular, on the trust that has been successfully built up in all Member States in the past years, both among religious communities and between politicians and religious communities.
I should like to draw the House’s attention to a number of activities that have taken place in my own country, Austria, as this situation very much calls for Member States, too, to assume their responsibilities; and, of course, the Council is also dependent on the activities of the individual Member States in its role as spokesperson on its own behalf and that of the EU as a whole.
One of the most important conversations Austria’s leading representatives have held in recent days in an attempt to defuse the situation is the one that took place on 7&#160;February between Foreign Minister Plassnik and Anas Schakfeh, President of the Islamic Communities of Austria.
In recent months, Austria has seen some very important events, such as a major conference on the subject of ‘Islam in a pluralist society’, attended by large numbers of religious and political leaders: the President of Afghanistan, the President of Iraq, the former President of Iran, religious dignitaries from all religious communities.
Two days ago, the Austrian Chancellor invited all the leaders of the large state-recognised religious communities in Austria to a meeting, at which all participants were unanimous in emphasising that peaceful coexistence, and peaceful – including critical – dialogue, is the only way to prevent developments of the kind seen in recent weeks.
The cartoons have aggrieved many Muslims all over the world.
I share the views expressed by Prime Minister Rasmussen, where he made clear that his government respects Islam as one of the world’s major religions and that it has no intention of insulting Muslims and does not support activities in this sense.
Therefore the Commission condemns, in the strongest possible terms, the violence perpetrated against our office in Gaza, and against the missions of the Member States, in particular those of Denmark.
A trade boycott is not an appropriate way of addressing the issue, either: it would hurt the economic interests of all parties and could damage the growing trading links between the European Union and the countries concerned.
Let us be clear: a boycott of Danish goods is by definition a boycott of European goods.
I want here today to send my solidarity to the people of Denmark as well; a people who rightly enjoy the reputation of being amongst the most open and tolerant not just in Europe, but in the world.
Our European society is based on respect for the individual person’s life and freedom, equality of rights between men and women, freedom of speech, and a clear distinction between politics and religion.
Freedom of speech and freedom of the press is the basis not only of the possibility to publish an opinion or a cartoon, but also to criticise it.
They are defined and enforced by the law and legal systems of the Member States of the European Union.
Just as Europe respects freedom of speech, so it must – and does – respect freedom of religion.
Religious freedom is a fundamental right of individuals and communities; it entails respect for the integrity of all religious convictions and all ways in which they are exercised.
Muslims are and must be able to practise their faith in the same way as the adherents of other religions and convictions practise theirs.
The European Union and its Member States have for a long time promoted dialogue between different communities both within the European Union and with neighbouring Muslim countries, and in other parts of the world.
Let the best of our values win against the worst of prejudices. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is following the controversy over the caricatures with great concern.
Therefore, our plea today goes out, in particular, to representatives of the media in Europe, in Iran, in other Islamic countries; it goes out to those who seek to inflate the caricature row to a matter of political principle.
This order must show respect for the beliefs and religious sensitivities of others, whilst at the same time enabling a peaceful, constructive dialogue on the things that divide us both superficially and deep down at the heart of our being, of our values, experiences and feelings.
Firstly, because we need to start with the young people, we should set up a committee of experts to examine school books in Europe and in the Islamic world to see the kind of words and values that are being attributed to each other and disseminated by this means.
We, or rather the Islamic world, have become agitated over a number of caricatures in a European – Danish – newspaper and other newspapers; but this is only one instance of hundreds – not to say thousands – of caricatures, including those in the Islamic world making fun of our – Christian – values and our convictions.
This has to stop: both here and in the countries of the Islamic world.
Secondly, I was among those Members who participated in the Euro-Mediterranean Conference in Barcelona.
We should use the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly to bring together elected politicians and representatives of civil society from Europe and our partner countries for regular dialogue and targeted discussions within the framework of the Barcelona process.
The Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly could thus be a pivotal forum for the dialogue between cultures.
In this sense, we of course stand in solidarity with Denmark, and this debate should send out a signal of tolerance and understanding, albeit based on reciprocity and recognition of the truth.
Only then will we be on the path towards a good future based on dialogue between cultures. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President; Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council; Mr&#160;Barroso, President of the Commission; Mr&#160;Schulz, our group chairman, has asked me to talk today on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, and that is something that I am pleased to do where this matter is concerned.
It has been terrible and shocking to see people killed, my own country’s and other countries’ flags burned, ambassadors attacked and boycotts implemented, causing large numbers of innocent people to lose their jobs.
We have led the way in international solidarity and in economic and political aid to poor peoples around the world.
It is absolutely crucial that the violence we see should not get completely out of hand.
That violence must stop now, and I should like, personally and on behalf of my country, to thank Mr&#160;Barroso for the clear signal he has sent out today in Parliament and for the solidarity he has shown with my country and with all those countries that have been attacked.
An attack on one Member State is an attack on the European Union as a whole.
European values are based on respect for peoples and religions.
The whole of our bloody history has taught us the wisdom of mutual understanding, dignity and co-existence.
Freedom of expression must therefore go hand in hand with respect for other peoples.
I should like to use my freedom of expression today to criticise and clearly repudiate the cartoons of the prophet Muhammad that appeared in a Danish newspaper a few months ago.
I also know that many people in Europe cannot understand why the Danish Prime Minister refused to meet ambassadors from the Arab world.
We cannot, however, change what has happened.
Most important of all is the fact that the Danish Government subsequently used its freedom of expression clearly to express respect for other peoples and their religions, not least Islam.
We want to send a clear signal today: we are determined to ignore new provocations, which cannot be used by extremists in Europe and in the Muslim world to inflame violence and intolerance and create new myths about each other.
And no, it is not a clash between religions or civilisations.
However, Muslims should recognise that the global tensions have merely increased support for far-right, anti-immigration parties and have been abused by extremists in and outside Europe.
Such a move would contravene the constitutional basis of many liberal democracies and is an invitation to criminalise freedom of thought on a global scale.
Nobody is denying that Muslims have a right to feel offended by these drawings, just as Sikhs, Jews, Christians or believers of any sort have a right to take umbrage at the press.
It is self-evident that, after 9/11 and the bombings in Madrid and London, greater care must be taken to ensure that relations between different communities remain as harmonious as possible.
Before I close in Danish, I just want to thank personally the President of the Commission, Mr Barroso, and my colleagues here in this Chamber for showing their solidarity.
If we begin to compromise our freedom of expression and, at the same time, suspend our right to subject all religions to critical analysis, the fundamental right to think and to express ourselves freely will be restricted. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Hannah Arendt described freedom as being disturbing and painful, saying that men may even flee from it, as it can sometimes be difficult and unpleasant.
Muslims are entitled to hold demonstrations in protest – we respect that – in the same way as members of the Jewish community demonstrated against a play by Rainer Werner Fassbinder.
If we were to show immigrants more respect in this world, if our laws were to show them more respect, they would have the opportunity to discuss our freedoms differently.
First of all, there is the issue of freedom of expression, clearly the touchstone of democracy and also the touchstone of the existence of a secular public space to which we quite rightly attach great importance.
These principles must not be compromised, but at the same time let us agree that the defence of these principles must not allow for insults, generalisations or stigmatisation, let alone justify them.
We are constantly saying that we all live in the same world, a world that is getting smaller, in which everything is interdependent and of which neither Europe, the West in general, or any other region, is the centre.
We must therefore strive to create a kind of global public spirit.
As the great Palestinian poet, Mahmoud Darwish, stresses in a more general sense: 'Arabs and Muslims have the impression of being pushed outside of history'.
The Danish Prime Minister has rightly refused to take responsibility for the content in our newspapers, but when 11&#160;Arab ambassadors ask for a meeting, it is a duty for a prime minister to meet them.
Several people have been killed.
My group warned against making fundamental rights a part of EU law.
Muslims may use the Danish courts in the same way as all other citizens.
If it is not enough, go to the European Court of Human Rights here in Strasbourg.
A third world war can be started by a little cartoon, as the First World War was started when a young student shot Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo.
It is on this planet that we must all live. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, when discussing the right to freedom and freedom of expression, one of the Supreme Court judges in the United States, Oliver Wendell Holmes, said that there are no absolute rights; rights can be restricted.
One of the difficulties we face in our discussions is the justifiable desire to ensure that the press and media in Europe have freedom of expression, the freedom to poke fun, the freedom to satirise, the freedom, in some cases, to insult people.
I do not think anybody in this house could in any way condone the violent reaction in certain countries in the Middle East to the publication of those cartoons and caricatures.
Respect for human dignity is as important a right in any democracy as the right to freedom of expression.
President Barroso rightly said that Europe stands in solidarity with our Danish colleagues, because a boycott of Danish goods is a boycott of all European goods.
We must ensure that we can help our colleagues in the Danish Government withstand the pressure they are being put under by voices in the media to go back on their present position.
In 50 years’ time he will be feted for that; it is one of the bulwarks of democracy.
To ask the question is to answer it, and it is therefore high time we stopped beating about the bush and asked Muslims who live in Europe and who, by the way, enjoy freedom of religion, the free expression of opinion and all the blessings of social security, quite rightly so, to take themselves less seriously and to realise that democracy is about differences of opinion and sometimes clashing viewpoints.
We have left this issue unaddressed for far too long, because we were tolerant or even perhaps complacent.
Let the European countries where laws inimical to liberty are already in place to curb the free expression of political opinion – Belgium for example – take the initiative to abolish these laws which muzzle people and thereby send a strong message to anyone who combats freedom.
It is time we mustered the courage to say this, certainly now Prime Minister Erdogan has been arrogant enough to seek to impose restrictions on the free expression of opinion.
I should also like to emphasise that the Council naturally considers it very important that all the institutions of the EU – the Commission and Parliament as well as the Council – agree on this and speak the same language; I consider that most important.
The debate that we have held here today will also make the Council’s job easier in future.
On behalf of the Council, I wish to reiterate what I said in my introductory statement – which has also been said by the President of the Commission and also very many speakers: any attack on a Member State of the EU, any boycott against a Member State of the EU, is an attack on the EU, and we of course stand in solidarity with Denmark.
This I say also on behalf of the Council.
I could not agree more with Mr&#160;Rasmussen on the importance of dialogue between civilisations and on the need for the dialogue to be open, critical and respectful: that seems to me to be most important.
I am aware that, over the years and decades, institutions such as the Council of Europe have made repeated attempts to draw up a code of conduct; all of which have failed.
In the same spirit shown by today’s debate, the Council will continue to work on improving understanding between civilisations and between religious communities, but will also speak in plain terms when it comes to rejecting violence, and when it comes to condemning the use of violence or boycotts against Member States of the EU.
We must show solidarity on this. &#160;&#160; To end the debate, I have received six motions for resolutions(1) in accordance with Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 10 a.m. &#160;&#160; – I voted in favour of this resolution because I defend freedom of speech as a European and universal value and because I condemn violence as an expression of indignation, regardless of its target, and that includes European interests and embassies.
I also voted in favour because the second paragraph of the resolution condemns incitement to religious hatred and the dissemination of racist and xenophobic attitudes.
If it is to promote freedom of expression and the most basic human rights, Parliament must categorically distance itself from islamophobia and must condemn any attempts to correlate Islam and its believers with terrorism.
My vote for this resolution was also an expression of my solidarity with the people of Denmark.
I do not, however, approve of the complacent, arrogant attitude of the Fogh Rassmussen Government, which I hold jointly responsible for the fact that extremist reactionary forces, both in the West and in the Islamic world, have made capital from the incident by invoking the ‘clash of civilisations’. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the confrontation between Iran and the international community. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, in this Council statement on the confrontation between Iran and the international community, I should like to comment on the following issues: firstly, the nuclear issue, secondly, relations between the EU and Iran and, thirdly, the recent violence in Tehran.
The resolution of the Iranian nuclear issue is a key concern for the international community, which has serious doubts about the peaceful nature of Iran’s nuclear programme.
Over recent years, the EU has spared no effort to find a solution by negotiation and to urge Iran to adopt confidence-building measures with regard to its nuclear programme.
The adoption by the IAEA Board of Governors of its resolution of 4&#160;February bringing the matter to the attention of the Security Council of the United Nations gave a clear signal to Iran.
The large majority by which the resolution was adopted demonstrates that Europe’s deep concern about Iran’s nuclear programme is shared by the international community as a whole.
The EU is by no means calling into question Iran’s right to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
The cause of this conflict lies in Iran’s failure to take sufficient action to date to build the necessary confidence in the peaceful nature of its nuclear programme.
On the contrary, over the last 18&#160;years, Iran has failed to declare a substantial part of its very extensive nuclear programme to the IAEA, and is still refusing to provide it with important information concerning, in particular, the extent of development of its uranium-enrichment technology and the field of ‘weaponisation’ – that is, the militarisation of its nuclear programme.
The EU’s objective is still to achieve a solution to the matter by negotiation.
Yet this requires that Iran show sufficient willingness to be cooperative and open, in particular towards the IAEA, and to take urgently needed confidence-building measures such as suspending sensitive nuclear activities.
The Russian proposal to build a Russian-Iranian uranium-enrichment facility on Russian soil as an alternative to enrichment in Iran is an important contribution and has the full support of the EU.
Let me reiterate quite clearly that the EU remains committed to a diplomatic solution to the Iranian nuclear issue, in which the IAEA must play a key role.
On the subject of relations between the EU and Iran, the EU still regards the human-rights situation in Iran with great concern.
The situation is worsening, and the Iranian authorities are not taking any tangible action to reform legislation or official practices.
The EU will continue to voice its human-rights concerns, both directly to the Iranian Government and in public statements and international forums.
The statements made by the Iranian President on Israel have been unambiguously and strongly condemned by the EU and the international community as a whole.
We note with concern that the Iranian President recently met some of the leaders of such groups in Syria, and we call on Iran to end such contacts.
In addition, we call for it to join the international consensus on the necessity of a two-state solution to the Middle East conflict.
Statements such as this are completely unacceptable and, furthermore, are totally at odds with the efforts of the numerous political and religious leaders who are specifically working on all sides to promote a dialogue between the cultures that is characterised by mutual respect, particularly following the events of recent days.
The EU’s relations with Iran will depend on progress made on all of the issues of concern: the nuclear issue and other concerns in connection with weapons of mass destruction, human rights, the fight against terrorism and the country’s position on the Middle East.
The EU Presidency has condemned these attacks and called on Iran to meet its obligations with regard to the protection laid down in the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961.
That is why, as a result of the vote of the International Atomic Energy Agency Board in Vienna on 4&#160;February, Iran’s nuclear dossier is now to be reported to the United Nations Security Council.
That is unacceptable news, although Iran expected to continue cooperating with the IAEA on the basis of the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
If Iran returns to a suspension of its enrichment activities and accepts the Russian proposal, the Security Council track may not prove necessary.
The United Nations Security Council will revert to the issue in the light of Mr&#160;El&#160;Baradei’s report and the next meeting of the IAEA Board starting on 6&#160;March.
If and when the situation calls for that, we must be able to re-engage Iran through a series of EU and Community instruments.
It is about Iran’s failure to build the necessary confidence in the exclusively peaceful nature of its nuclear programme.
Indeed, Iran has the right to develop research, production and the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
I should like to say a few words about President Ahmadinejad’s statements on issues that affect regional stability and international relations.
With regard to human rights, you may recall that on 12&#160;December the General Affairs and External Relations Council found the situation grave enough to adopt conclusions on the state of EU-Iran human rights dialogue.
Stating what is for me a fundamental requirement vis-à-vis Iran, the European Union reaffirmed that greater respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in Iran is essential if there is to be progress in EU-Iran relations.
The list of human rights concerns in Iran remains worryingly long.
The Commission looks forward to a continued exchange with Parliament regarding the matter of Iran.
The situation is critical, but the long-term objective continues to be, despite everything, that deeper and broader relations should be established with a country that is an important regional and international player. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I should like to declare our full support for the policy of the international community on Iran, as revealed in the resolution of the IAEA Board of Governors of 4&#160;February, the position of the EU General Affairs Council of 30&#160;January, and the statement issued by the EU-3 together with the USA, Russia and China in London.
In the government of my home country, too, Chancellor&#160;Merkel and Minister for Foreign Affairs Steinmeier are together resolutely following this course.
Parliament’s resolution today will make that clear.
Those who believe that our unconditional desire for peace alone will induce our opposite numbers to change course and see the light are doing our natural yearning for peace a disservice.
The country does not operate a single … &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I should have been surprised if it did not.
In my speech I shall try to add some further questions from the point of view of my group.
All the values that President Ahmadinejad stands for are the opposite of those we stand for, and I should welcome a debate on values with these people.
We should hold a calm, self-confident debate, and see whether there are others in the region besides President Ahmadinejad with whom we can hold dialogue.
Solving this caricature conflict is also central to solving the problems of the region as a whole, therefore.
The actions of one aggressive Head of State of one country do not in any way reflect the views of the vast majority of peace-loving Muslims around the world, with whom we have to cooperate.
We should support this proposal.
We must reinforce our diplomatic options step by step.
The international community should do everything in its power to make it clear to Iran that failure to return to the negotiating table by 6&#160;March will automatically trigger a referral to the Security Council.
The non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and of weapons of mass destruction is in the balance.
The stability of the entire region is at risk, as is the effectiveness of the International Atomic Agency itself.
Even if the conference reviewing the non-proliferation treaty fails, which would be very regrettable indeed, even then the permanent members of the UN Security Council, including China and Russia, and the others – you are familiar with them – together with the European Union, appear today to be of one mind in seeking to prevent proliferation in a peaceful manner, and that is indeed cause for modest satisfaction.
It is now up to Iran, in full transparency and renewed cooperation with the Agency, to convince the world that it only has peaceful objectives in mind &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we have to recognise that this situation is escalating.
I would also say, however, in view of the difficult negotiations over recent days, that the military option has been discussed, and I ask those who have this in the back of their minds to think it through.
I expect them to define how they propose to deal with a military escalation, and tell us whether the way they do so will enable us to achieve our objectives, namely preventing Iran developing nuclear weapons and ensuring Israel’s existence.
The vital issue of world peace is to be decided by the United Nations and no one else, and we should not forestall them. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, there is nothing whatsoever to recommend the Tehran theocracy.
It is an ignorant and arrogant regime, as proved by the statements made by its President on the holocaust; not even Le Pen would plumb such depths.
This is a reactionary and fundamentalist regime that violates human rights on a daily basis, a dangerous and reckless regime that is staking its survival on uranium enrichment, thus edging it nearer to the club of countries with nuclear weapons.
Let us be absolutely clear: Europe must do everything, short of waging war, to prevent Tehran from having nuclear weapons.
Europe has an alternative to escalating the dispute: it can and must turn what is currently a problem into an extraordinary opportunity for the human race and for the Iranian people.
The United States, which is a signatory to the Treaty, has an opportunity to reverse the underlying military approach in negotiations with Iran.
On the one hand, we hear from the Supreme Leader Khamenei very reassuring words about the use of weapons of mass destruction being prohibited in Islam; it is in line with this that Iranian leaders claim to pursue the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
This might be true if Iran were a normal state, but it is not.
It is a dictatorship that has openly challenged the right of one of its neighbours to exist.
This will be difficult to achieve, since Russia is seeking to profit from Iran’s nuclear programme and is selling weapons to Iran, as is China, while India is planning to build a gas pipeline from that country.
If the UN Security Council is not equal to the task, if we fail to change Iran's policy through a programme of economic and financial sanctions, we should not be surprised to see fighter planes in the skies above Natanz or Isfahan at some point in the future. &#160;&#160; – There was something touching in the way the Austrian Secretary of State stumbled through the script presented to him on the subject of Iran and its atomic energy programme.
It shows how far removed from these issues representatives of the Austrian Government have become in the first decade of the third millennium.
Combining the two, the obvious course of action would actually be to take initiatives, to say that we need an even wider perspective on this conflict than that indicated by the previous speakers.
China naturally rejects further nuclear proliferation and is also worried by its own home-grown Islamist threats.
Only Syria, Cuba and Venezuela rejected the proposal.
I ridicule the appeasing statement by the United Kingdom Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, who claims that military action is inconceivable, whereas his boss, Prime Minister Tony Blair, rightly refuses to rule it out. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to remind Members of certain fundamental mistakes made by many people during the Iraq affair when assessing the intentions of Saddam’s regime regarding weapons of mass destruction.
While it may not be perfect, the IAEA is the only means of monitoring any nuclear programme in Iran.
We have the time to negotiate, we have solid political and legal grounds to request that Iran comply fully with the NPT and there is a political and social opposition in Iran that is far from toothless, but, if we want to create the conditions for security and stability in the Middle East, we, as Europeans, must make it clear to all sides that international rights and obligations are the same for everyone.
This also means that our American friends must change the political paradigm with Iran, acknowledging that their past approaches have been ineffective and that they need to adopt a more collaborative policy in order to safeguard everybody’s interests in this crucial part of the world. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the situation in Iran provides genuine grounds for concern.
Not only is the human rights situation deplorable, but the regime also mocks the world community by violating international principles and ignoring the IAEA’s demands.
The idea of Iran acquiring nuclear weapons is, of course, incredibly frightening, especially in the light of its statements about, and threats against, Israel and in terms of what such a development would mean for the rest of the region.
The disturbances surrounding the cartoons of Muhammad also appear perfectly to suit the regime in Tehran, and there are many indications that it is precisely Tehran that is fomenting the disturbances.
It is time for the EU to formulate a very clear strategy in relation to Iran.
This strategy should, however, also include preparing possible sanctions decided on in the UN Security Council. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it appears that our strategy against the Iranian regime has largely failed.
Nowadays in Iran we are seeing the worst phase of the theocratic regime: executions are continuing, human rights are at their worst in Iranian history; the mixture of religion and politics is heavier than in any other part of the world and the government is mobilising its own people and other peoples in the Middle East against democracy.
Iranian leaders could be tempted to say that if Israel does not stop its nuclear programme, then Iran has the right to develop its own.
We have to be aware of the fact that when we are taking about the Iranian regime we are also talking about Syria and Lebanon, the future of the peace process in Israel and Palestine, theocracy and democracy, human rights and universal values. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the joint motion for a resolution is very problematic.
The historical comparison drawn by Angela Merkel, too, is completely unacceptable.
The use of nuclear energy in itself is problematic.
The unspeakable comments by the Iranian President on Israel and the human rights violations in the country must not be exploited for the purposes of a policy of war against Iran. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we need to debate in order to see what we fear: nuclear weapons or the person in possession of nuclear weapons?
The story of David and Goliath is repeating itself.
Threats always lead in the wrong direction.
We must make an effort, because we are the more civilised. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, it has been clear for some time that the Iranian nuclear issue would be considered at the UN Security Council.
It is obvious, however, that tensions between Iran and the international community have only increased.
Ladies and gentlemen, recent months were a time for the consolidation of international action.
Now, not just the International Atomic Energy Agency but all five permanent members of the UN Security Council unanimously acknowledge that Iran’s nuclear programme is not of a peaceful nature.
Certainly, it is not the European Parliament that will decide on the further course of events, but we must stress that the inability of the states to agree on joint action at the 2005 review conference of the NPT (Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons) only gave rise to an obsession among Iran’s leadership.
Ladies and gentlemen, while the Iranian nuclear issues are considered at the UN Security Council, in this situation the European Parliament and national parliaments must again and again highlight the need for unity among the international community.
Let us remember that any doubts or lack of conviction provide strength to the Iranian regime, encourage the fanatics and play into their hands. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we must remember firstly that it is Europe that has sold this nuclear technology to Iran.
Thirdly, returning to nuclear weapons, is it not shocking that our international community has allowed several countries to the east and the west of Iran to acquire nuclear weapons without reacting in any way?
This is essential to our credibility. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Vice-President of the Commission, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, we must not let the fundamentalists and those abusing the opportunities that freedom in Europe presents destroy our capacity for dialogue.
I believe that that is a crucial starting point, as, too, is ensuring that a president such as this is unable to win through in Iran, and that the many, well-educated, young people who wish to live a decent life have prospects; and for that reason we have to maintain this capacity for dialogue, in order to support internal reform process here, too.
The international community must be resolute when it comes to breaches of the law – irrespective of whether these occur in the context of freedom of expression – or when it comes to ensuring that Iran abides by the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the rules that have been agreed.
For this reason, it is important that we ensure this dialogue helps to build a more peaceful world, that we do not now let ourselves be talked into taking steps that render it impossible to use this escalation ladder for peaceful purposes, and also that, in the process, we do not lapse into automatism from which there is no escape. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, we are unfortunately having to realise that the situation in Iran is escalating, and that is certainly not the right way for it to go about assuming a responsible role in the future of the international peace process, particularly in the Middle East, as Iran always likes to see it.
I do sympathise with a country’s desire for scientific and technological progress for the benefit of its citizens – it must be given this option – but a field as double-edged as nuclear research requires a common effort by the international community; it is unacceptable for any parties to go it alone.
The fact is that the political situation in the region is not as stable as we would wish upon the people living there.
For that reason, we would call on all the countries of that region to enter into a process of dialogue.
Regional stability and security cannot be achieved through outside intervention, and power games must not be allowed to result in doors being closed to us, so that we no longer know what is happening behind them.
We should not give fundamentalism or fanaticism any chance. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is estimated that Iran could have nuclear weapons within three to ten years, although the point of no return in stopping that development could be reached much sooner.
The world became used to the nuclear stand-off between the democratic west and the communist east during the Cold War, but in that confrontation, disaster was avoided because ultimately both sides were rational.
The religious fundamentalists of Iran are not rational.
In this situation all the options are dangerous but the most dangerous option is doing nothing at all. &#160;&#160; Mr President, that everyone is agreed that we cannot accept a regime of religious maniacs having weapons of mass destruction at their disposal is not something we have learned only today, so from that point of view this debate is superfluous.
Allow me in this minute to draw your attention to the hypocrisy which Europe and the US display in matters such as these in order to pursue .
If we are shocked today – as we rightly are – by Teheran’s barbaric execution of minors, at the same time as it plays a leading role in the smear campaign against Denmark, should we not also question the human rights situation in the large Islamic country Saudi Arabia, which is claimed to be the USA’s major ally and hence ours too?
We sit here talking and talking while Iran goes ahead with the obvious production of nuclear weapons.
If we are to find a solution, therefore, we must understand the causes of Iran’s behaviour.
Iran ruled the Middle East in ancient times, and for five hundred years in medieval times.
The country is convinced of its position as the leading power in the Middle East, and is producing nuclear weapons in order to secure this position.
We must, however, be clear, firm and principled in our attitude towards totalitarian regimes. &#160;&#160; (Mr President, there is no greater sin in politics than the sin of naïvety.
A one-minute speech such as this can only appeal to the emotions and the imagination.
Of course we disagree with the autocratic model of governance in Iran, we condemn the violations of human rights, but we must all acknowledge that the Iranian people put their new political leadership into place with democratic procedures.
The second finding is that Iran has an inalienable right to develop a nuclear programme for peaceful purposes.
There can be no solution outside the search for a political and diplomatic solution through dialogue, negotiation and respect for international law.
Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the European Union has every interest in preventing the repetition of a new Iraq in the area. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we need to put a stop to the activity of uranium enrichment, which lacks sufficient transparency.
The behaviour of the Iranian authorities towards the International Atomic Energy Agency has made it impossible to build the trust needed between Iran and the international community.
Iran considers itself to be invincible and unassailable on the economic, industrial, financial and energy fronts, and we therefore fear that any negotiation is destined to fail.
We need to explain that it will not be possible to pursue a dialogue between our Parliament and the Iranian Government if the latter does not establish an equivalent parliamentary delegation.
We must therefore request an ongoing dialogue with all of the political forces in Iran, on both the ruling and the opposition sides, and show solidarity towards Israel with regard to the continual attacks it is under, by committing the European Union to guarantee security within the Middle East.
We therefore call on Members to vote against&#160;... &#160;&#160; I&#160;believe that sensible and peaceful thinking people the entire world over do not have a problem with Iran itself.
I&#160;therefore believe that it is important to distinguish between these two elements and not to identify the president with the whole country.
Unfortunately, it has been true throughout our history that such sick minds have repeatedly managed to bring war not only to their nations and countries, but often also to whole regions and twice even to the entire world.
Against this backdrop, the citizens expect the EU to guarantee their security and to be a stabilising factor on the world stage.
It is primarily up to those who have been given the task of leading the negotiations with Iran to dispel the citizens’ fears, in spite of the risk – clearly a calculated risk – that Iran will not want to heed the international community’s legitimate demands.
Mr President, simply referring the case to the United Nations and the Security Council is not, to my mind, sufficient.
We must not allow the current difficulties and these politically sensitive times to lead to rifts, when what is at stake is something as fundamental as our global security.
This is the key question to which we must respond.
Let us hope that this particularly difficult time will enable the Union to show that it has the means at its disposal to play a role on a world scale, something that this House has often demanded.
We hope that it succeeds in doing so. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, the word most often used in this morning’s debates has been the word ‘dialogue’; dialogue between cultures, between civilisations and, I may say, even between the European Union and Iran.
Relations between the Union and Iran have in recent years been based on a three-tier approach, comprising trade cooperation, political dialogue and dialogue on human rights.
I firmly believe, despite the numerous disappointments and setbacks of recent weeks and months, that this approach is still applicable and still valid.
I am also convinced that it is not in the interests of the citizens of Iran, the Iranians themselves, that their country should become a kind of black hole within the international community.
I therefore support the dialogue mentioned earlier with the reformist groups within Iran and in the surrounding region. &#160;&#160; Mr President, personally speaking, I feel bound to point out the link between the comments by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad calling for Israel to be wiped from the map and Iran’s decision to resume its uranium processing activities.
The debate on the Middle East here in Parliament and in the media has, more often than not, been focused on Iraq and the election in Palestine.
At the same time, human rights are being violated, a state of affairs discussed by many of the previous speakers.
More time must be given to human rights issues, and we should act significantly more vigorously than I think we are doing at present.
Diplomatic solutions must be preferred to an escalation of violence and other outrages.
In modern conflicts, it is always civilians, women and children who, more than anyone else, are injured and violated.
This must be put an end to now, while there is still time. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as this debate has also shown, the resolution of the Iranian nuclear issue remains a central concern of the EU and of the international community in general; for doubts as to the peaceful nature of this nuclear programme are indeed justified.
We believe that the Russian proposal to build a Russian-Iranian uranium-enrichment facility on Russian soil would be a good alternative to enrichment in Iran: this solution has the full support of the EU.
Some have said that Austria should take the initiative, but I am, of course, speaking here in my capacity as representative of the Council, and as such I represent the position held by the Council as a whole, irrespective of any national positions.
I should like to remind the House that, since 1975, Iran has been a party, without reservation, to both the UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the UN International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights.
Finally, I should like to confirm that I share the opinion expressed by Mr&#160;Brok and others that we must of course continue the dialogue with the forces in Iran who are favourably disposed to peaceful coexistence and to compliance with the country’s obligations.
It must be made quite clear, however, that we must not allow this dialogue to be abused, and so we have to be very careful in our choice of dialogue partners.
Nevertheless, there is still an opportunity for dialogue and for a diplomatic solution.
Many Members have said so, the last of whom being Mrs&#160;Běnová.
Those in this Chamber who questioned the role played by the Security Council are indirectly questioning the role that we all assign to it.
The Security Council represents the home of international legitimacy.
Mr&#160;President, Europe is faced with the choice between, on the one hand, working to achieve peace and regional stability – as I believe is our duty – and, on the other, pretending that nothing is going on, with the danger of an aggressive nuclear power arising in the region.
It is not a conflict that is under way, but a different approach to rights, values and democracy.
The debate is closed.
Iranian society seems to be drowned in silence.
Therefore, the dialogue must continue and must be tightened up.
We are not faced with a clash of civilisations, but rather with a different attitude towards human rights, freedom and democracy.
We must encourage a more careful and respectful attitude towards every fragment of humankind, because only in that way will it be possible to triumph over hatred and violence. &#160;&#160; The next item is the vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should just like to protest against the fact that this motion for a resolution is only available in English, since all the other language versions had to be pulped on account of errors.
Furthermore, this licence will lead in particular to improvements in terms of the safety of air traffic management and ensure that the training of future controllers is harmonised at a high level of competence.
It is no coincidence that the majority in Parliament rejected the proposed amendment tabled by our group, which urged ‘a peaceful political solution to the dispute over Iran’s nuclear programmes’, reiterated ‘its opposition to any military action or threat of the use of force’, and stressed that ‘an escalation of the dispute would exacerbate the crisis in the region’.
Instead of supporting measures aimed at diffusing international tensions, the majority in Parliament supports the idea of the UN Security Council taking control of the situation.
Many people have fled the country and among those who have stayed on, it is mainly women and young people who are desperate for change.
This completely removes any prospect of real change, human rights or democracy.
Europe would do better to ensure that various organisations of Iranians in exile, who advocate domestic change, could operate within the law. &#160;&#160; . – Τhe joint motion for a resolution on Iran by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and the Union for Europe of the Nations Group is firing up tension and endeavouring to prepare public opinion to accept the new war being prepared by the imperialists on the pretext of the nuclear threat.
At the same time, they are trying to obstruct other countries as well from developing technology and not being dependent on major imperialist countries.
Irrespective of the responsibilities of the government of Iran, the peoples must not and will not accept the imperialist plans against Iran and other countries in the area.
The people of Iran alone have the jurisdiction to resolve any serious political issues which exist in Iran. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Republic of Austria, it is a great honour for me to welcome you to our Parliament.
We are all pleased to have you here amongst us as President of the country holding the Presidency of the Council of the Union.
Before you took on the Presidency of your country, many Members of this Parliament including myself, and some who have greeted you in the aisles had the opportunity to meet you during your long career as a distinguished parliamentarian and President of the Austrian Parliament.
In all of your duties you have demonstrated your undeniable commitment to Europe, to European values, to Austria’s cause in Europe and to Europe’s cause in the world.
Your visit to the European Parliament today offers us the opportunity to express the great respect we feel for you and pay homage to your considerable personal achievements, and those of your country, and its special place in the history and culture of Europe, as well as Austria’s contribution to the recent development of the Union and the debate on its future.
In a short space of time, the Austrian Presidency has shown that it is perfectly aware of the circumstances in which it is taking up the Presidency of the Council of the Union and of the need to restore the citizens’ faith in the European project, promoting integration and consolidating enlargement, and more specifically, ensuring that we make optimum use of the period of reflection we are in so that, at the end of it, we can revitalise the process of creating a constitution.
Austria was on the periphery of the Union of 15, but now it is at the heart of the Europe of 25, which will soon be a Europe of 27 or more.
A few days ago, a Member of your House with whom I am well-acquainted – she is herself from Austria – advised me, in my speech before your House today, not to spend too much time on introductory commonplaces, for you often welcome to this rostrum Heads of State or Government from the widest variety of countries as guest speakers, and you are more interested in politics than in being paid compliments.
For me, then – and I assume for most of us – the year 1989 and the months before and after the fall of the Berlin Wall were something of a political miracle.
Ever since then, I have believed in the possibility of political miracles, or at least in the possibility of that what at first sight appears to be a difficult or even hopeless endeavour being, in fact, accomplished.
Alongside the principles underlying the European project as conceived by its founding fathers, namely the idea of peace and the ideal of personal and economic freedom of movement in the largest possible European area, for millions of people who had to live with all of four decades of Communist dictatorship after the end of the Second World War, it opened up the prospect of being able to lead a life in democracy and freedom after all.
It was therefore inevitable that, after the collapse of Communism and the enlargement of the European Union from 12 to 15 Member States – which was indeed to Austria’s benefit – the topic of another, new round of enlargement, which was also seen as a kind of reunification of Europe, would appear on the agenda.
For the European project of the future we are therefore obliged to draw meaningful political borders – which do not have to be eternal – and, across these borders and through intensive cooperation with the neighbouring countries, to develop partnerships – something that can be summed up under the heading of ‘wider Europe’.
It is to be hoped that everybody now realises that an EU of 25 plus cannot work ideally, or perhaps not even satisfactorily, with the structures of the EU of 12.
It was a willingness to compromise that eventually made it possible for all governments and your Parliament, too, to reach agreement on a text which, while not doing all we would wish it to do, is or would be important and useful for the European project as a whole.
The negative outcome of the referendums held in two EU Member States has not only brought matters to a halt for the moment but has also put a huge damper on the pro-Europe mood – and moods do play an essential role in politics.
We are now in a phase of reflection, but this reflection must be made visible and audible in order to give people the opportunity to agree with or oppose the ideas presented.
My personal reflection leads me to the conviction that it would be a mistake to meekly allow the project of a Constitutional Treaty to perish and, in effect, to escort it to the cemetery.
The Austrian EU Council Presidency is committed to making an effective contribution and to preparing the ground for this.
If this idea were generally welcomed in Europe it would of course also be necessary to reach agreement on the technicalities involved, for example, on how the decision to mount an EU-wide referendum of this kind might be taken.
The term ‘human capita’ has always struck me as a rather dubious one.
The two legs that Europe needs in order to stand upright are a sound economy and a sound social symmetry.
I also believe – and find this reflected in your House’s debate – that it is important to find viable answers to the question of opportunities for control and enforcement capabilities.
At the beginning of Austria’s Presidency Salzburg hosted a large discussion on Europe entitled ‘Sound of Europe’, also alluding to the 250th anniversary of the birth of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, with the stage occupied first by politicians, and then by the performers.
It has been pointed out time and again that Europe is more and more able to keep pace with the United States in economic terms but that in military terms – as they say – it is a dwarf, although I find the latter less irritating that its social inequalities.
What holds true for art also applies to science and education.
The Dresden Manifesto prepared by young students from a large number of European countries also included another demand: it called for the establishment of a common house for European contemporary history that would report objectively on the history of the 20th century and on Europe today and to give a detailed account of the European project.
I am sharing – albeit briefly – the content of this manifesto with you today not only to demonstrate to these young people that their requests and concerns are taken seriously by being presented to this highest European forum but also because education and research – as you are all aware – are factors of production of very special quality.
The very real utopia of European peace and the utopia of a sustainable and ecologically responsible economic order need to be supplemented by a cultural utopia and an educational utopia with the elaboration of very specific goals and their implementation as a priority consideration.
It is exactly four weeks since Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel addressed the European Parliament and presented the objectives of the Austrian EU Presidency.
I do not intend to repeat what was said then but would only like to add that there have been a lot of activities and developments in these four weeks.
This relates for instance to the Balkan priority set by the Austrian Presidency, but also to the progress made with respect to the preparations for the EU-Latin America/Caribbean Summit which will be held in Vienna in the middle of May 2006.
I regard respect for religious feelings and for what people regard as holy in the truest sense of the word, as an important factor in the coexistence of people and peoples, rather than as an intolerable restriction on a fundamental right.
If billions of people are to live together in peace on one planet, then respect for the values of others and mutual consideration are not luxury items to be discarded at will.
I respect and hold in high regard those Muslims, in particular, who, in Austria and elsewhere, have made their protest in a clear but peaceful manner.
The willingness and the honest intention to further intensify dialogue between cultures, religions, civilisations and people remains a priority in this context.
It is for that reason that we have the right and the duty to strengthen the confidence that we will succeed in our endeavour of shaping both the ‘old’ and the ‘new’ Europe into the Europe of the future.
I am very grateful to you for having given me the opportunity to speak up for this before Europe’s highest parliamentary forum and to offer you Austria’s services, and my own, in this cause. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like briefly to thank you for what you have said.
The beginning of negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement between the European Union and Bosnia-Herzegovina testifies to what has been successfully achieved over the past ten years, one important example of which was evident at the end of 2005, when the and the Bosnia-Herzegovina Federation merged their defence ministries, transferring all defence functions and staff to a single defence ministry for the whole state, which was without doubt a milestone in the country’s development.
The European EUFOR Mission, ‘Althea’, works closely together with these new joint structures and continues to move defence reform forwards.
There are yet more examples of how this state is moving forward in terms of its integrity and acceptance of responsibility for itself, one of which I shall mention being the introduction of VAT throughout the state with effect from 1 January this year.
It is tasked with providing even more proactive support to the police in their contribution to the fight against organised crime, and that is of relevance to our own Member States in view of the fact that organised crime in our neighbourhood does, of course, have an impact on us.
Although the negotiations that were started last year and resumed at the beginning of this one have now been adjourned , with the leaders of the parties unable, for the present, to agree on a complete package, it has to be said that progress has been achieved, and we can expect it to bear tangible fruit in the future.
In particular, I would remind your House of the progress made as regards human rights and the reinforcement of the position of the Chairman of the State’s Council of Ministers, which does give cause for a certain optimism.
This reform process, which includes reform of the constitution, is a process rather than an event at a single point in time, and we must all take a realistic view of it; after all, there are many things that are difficult to do in a democracy in an election year, particularly if the desired objective is fundamental reform.
In its conclusions in January, the Council affirmed that it welcomed the discussions on constitutional reform and the progress achieved thus far.
The theme running through all these efforts, and also the role played by the international community and the European Union, is the need for the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina to accept more responsibility, and one can sum that up in the word ‘ownership’.
Another important issue that will occupy us in 2006 is the future of the High Representative and the presence of the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
We should be glad that this is in line with the declared objectives of the new High Representative, Mr Schwarz-Schilling, who took over from Lord Ashdown at the end of January, and who has said that, as High Representative, he wants to adopt more the role of a ‘facilitator’ and make the country more European, and make less use of the powers possessed by the High Representative as such, which he will have to use less and less as the reform process goes on.
The initiation of these negotiations, and with them of the negotiations on treaty relationships with the European Union, constitutes an important step in the Bosnia-Herzegovina’s movement closer to the European Union.
It is vital that such reforms should involve progress being made in the most diverse areas, that is to say in combating corruption, in reinforcing public administration, in full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia – the last being particularly important for all the countries in the region affected by it.
So what is the prognosis now?
This fundamental affirmation that the future for these countries lies within the European Union was reinforced and confirmed by the June 2005 European Council.
Progress in this pre-accession stage will of course be dependent on the fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria and of the conditions included in the stabilisation and association process.
It is intended that the EU’s objectives in this respect should be reaffirmed on the occasion of the forthcoming informal meeting of EU and Western Balkans foreign ministers in Salzburg on 10/11 March, when agreement should also be reached on how and by what means the EU can deepen its involvement in the region.
This meeting should provide a good opportunity to agree on practical measures to promote stability, security and prosperity in the Western Balkans through the region’s progressive incorporation into the European structures, with the Commission communication to which I referred earlier serving as the principal basis for this.
I very much look forward to working together with the Presidency, the Council and Parliament to achieve the next important steps to bring the western Balkans closer to the European Union.
Last November the country started to negotiate a stabilisation and association agreement with the European Union.
A new High Representative/EU Special Representative, Mr Christian Schwarz-Schilling, has succeeded Lord Ashdown in Sarajevo.
Mr Schwarz-Schilling will make less use of the executive powers and leave more tasks in the hands of BiH politicians.
Before I outline some recent developments and our policy goals, let me apologise in advance if I have to leave the House before the end of the debate today.
Last November in Sarajevo we officially opened the negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement.
The first real negotiating round took place at the end of January 2006.
It went very well and our Bosnian partners had prepared themselves thoroughly.
The Commission’s working hypothesis is that negotiations will take about one year.
In order to avoid any misconceptions, let me make it clear that there is no short cut: full cooperation is a necessary condition to conclude a stabilisation and association agreement and to make progress in negotiations.
It is fair to say that the international community has played an important role in supporting the reforms in the country.
We are ready to support this process fully.
The more the country is able to demonstrate maturity and political ownership, the less the international community will need to intervene.
I met recently with the new HR/EUSR, Mr Schwarz-Schilling, who shares this view on a new role for the international community and the use of the Bonn powers.
The reform of the ‘Dayton Constitution’ is another important challenge before the Bosnian political leaders.
The country needs a constitution that ensures full compatibility with the European Convention on Human Rights; allows effective decision-making and efficient governance; and makes the government structure less costly for ordinary citizens and taxpayers.
In other words, it is necessary for the country to develop a democratic, functional and affordable multi-ethnic state in order better to serve all its citizens and to support the reforms that EU integration entails and necessitates.
Therefore, I welcome the recent efforts by the leading political parties and political leaders to find practical and workable solutions to these very important challenges.
Constitutional evolution has to be a consensus-driven process with the leaders of Bosnia and Herzegovina clearly in the driver’s seat.
But we need to underline that the European Union clearly has a big stake in this process.
In other words, Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to make sure that its constitutional provisions guarantee full and effective implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement and thus pave the way for the country’s road towards Europe.
The President-in-Office spoke of acceptance of responsibility, and that will be increasingly in evidence.
I have to say, though – and I am addressing the Commissioner when I say this – that he will need support from the Commission, particularly involving it helping with the creation of jobs, setting in motion the real agriculture policy that the region has long been waiting for, and real attention on its part to the development of rural areas, for a free trade zone is of no use to the country unless it can produce its own food.
Negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement are progressing well, and in that we rejoice; a delegation from the European Parliament will be travelling to Banja Luka this summer to discuss progress with our opposite numbers there.
Ten years after the massacre in Srebrenica and the cessation of hostilities with the signing of the Dayton Accord, it is high time that the constitution of the country was modified and that the kind of state, cantonal and local administrative structures were restored that will help rather than hinder Bosnia in the adoption and implementation of the laws and practices that we are familiar with in the European Union.
The reduction in the military presence in Bosnia and the transfer of the control of the mission from NATO to the EU is clear and convincing evidence of progress in this direction.
Just as Serbia and Montenegro has until the end of the month to find and extradite Mladić, so Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Republika Srbska to be precise, must extradite Karadžić – this is a prerequisite for forgiveness and reconciliation.
We must be aware that the road to the European Union will demand more than anything else improved multilateral relations and respect between all neighbours.
Christian, orthodox and islamic civilisations lived in peaceful coexistence in Bosnia and Hercegovina.
Perhaps this will bring us down to earth and perhaps we will then amend the visa regime more easily and with greater urgency. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, it is indeed a good thing that this House is so determined and consistent in giving its attention to the problems and concerns of the Western Balkans.
Ten years on from the Dayton Accord, there is a desperate need for change in the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the country’s status, and so we are glad to hear that the newly-appointed High Representative, Mr Schwarz-Schilling, believes that his most important task is to make his own role redundant.
It is possible for democracy to put down roots and develop in the long term only – and Mr Winkler emphasised this today – if it is underpinned by being owned by those who live in a given place.
The best solution for sustainable peace and conciliation between the three nations is probably a federal structure such as that in Belgium or Switzerland.
That is why my group argues in favour of solutions from the bottom up, in which the outside world does not try to know better, but helps in the reconstruction, conciliation and transfer of knowledge of good administrative practice.
What Mr Winkler and Mr Rehn have said fills me with confidence that this viewpoint is being taken into consideration.
We feel, though, that the emphasis in the proposed resolution is too much on a different type of approach which fits in with the regrettably widespread opinion in Europe that, since the 1992-1995 war, Bosnia-Herzegovina has remained a violent and intolerant chaos for which an external solution must be found with military means and administrative interventions until such time as a strong leader appears.
That is why my group makes its vote for the compromise resolution conditional on the approval of our two amendments in which we speak out in favour of the ability of the nations in question to decide for themselves and against continuing external military interference. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the day will come when Bosnia and Herzegovina will be in the European Union.
It is hard to imagine when this might happen, but it is equally hard to imagine a Union without Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Similarly, we ought to be joined one day by such countries as Ukraine, Belarus, Armenia and Georgia.
For now, let us by all means offer Bosnia and Herzegovina a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, without any guarantee of membership.
I would propose that after Bulgaria and Romania, countries should be admitted with the agreement of EU citizens, subject to their near-100% backing. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, thank you for making it possible for my intervention to be delayed until now; my apologies to the presidency of the Council, and to the Commissioner, but I have come straight from a meeting of the Conference of Presidents with the President of Austria.
The situation in south-eastern Europe is a precarious one: negotiations have begun with Croatia; Macedonia is a candidate, although negotiations have not yet started, and Kosovo remains a problem.
That being so, it is indeed important that we should not close our eyes to the problems that remain in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or forget that they are there.
Not only is it not up to the job of getting Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European Union, but it is also not up to the job of solving the present problems in the country itself, for spending some 50% of the country’s money on maintaining its institutions cannot be described as making any real contribution to its political and economic development.
One pressing problem is, of course, the overall state of the country’s economic development, with its lack of jobs and of investment, one of the consequences of which is that many young and educated people leave, so that its future elite, its future leaders, irrespective of their ethnic origin, are not there.
This makes it an absolute necessity that this cooperation by all the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, irrespective of their ethnic origin, and involving the international community, should result in a new constitution and in institutional reform, so that ethnicity should be replaced as a criterion by the personal qualities and professional expertise of the persons who are to be elected to shoulder political responsibility. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in order to understand why the situation in Bosnia is so complicated today and why we need constitutional reform in Bosnia, we must understand the background.
Everyone who experienced the war in Bosnia or who followed the events in the Balkans during the Nineties knows that the Dayton Agreement had one task, namely that of bringing the war to an end.
The ethnic dimension has become, and remains, more important than the civic dimension.
I am absolutely convinced that, just as when the Dayton Agreement was concluded, Bosnia must receive the practical help it needs from the international community.
This excellent resolution may be the first step in the EU’s strong commitment to this work. &#160;&#160; I believe that Bosnia is currently at a very sensitive point, which could be described as a transition from a period when its main aspiration was peace to a period when its main aspiration is development.
I personally do not believe that Bosnia can become a developed and secure state in the future if the decision-making processes in that country are not simplified.
These highly complex decision-making processes have been and still are to a large extent geared to preserving peace and to fostering cooperation between the three national communities.
But if Bosnia wants to make genuine progress, its political decision-making must be simplified root and branch and must be made more transparent and, of course, more democratic, with greater power for the central authorities and a reduced presence on the part of the representatives of the international community.
I believe that all of this is required if the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina are to feel more self-confident, more than you may feel today on the streets of their country if you visit it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I strongly welcome the trip by President Barroso and Commissioner Rehn as a visible demonstration of our commitment to the western Balkans’ EU future.
The door is open, and we want Bosnia to come through. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to reiterate, for the House’s benefit, the reasons why my group initiated this debate.
In January of this year, there was a very serious situation when, this very stage having been reached, an American think-tank tried to push this change through suddenly without European involvement.
This was at a time when Paddy Ashdown’s mandate had already ended and Mr&#160;Schwarz-Schilling’s had not yet begun.
I am optimistic that Mr&#160;Schwarz-Schilling, as High Representative, will have the interests of the people of Bosnia-Herzegovina at heart and will take their own responsibility seriously in ensuring that our political objective has a chance of being achieved.
The country is at present an unequal federation, and unworkable in the long term, with the Bosnian/Croat Federation dominated by the Bosnians, the Serbs and their , and the Croats of Herzegovina, who keep themselves to themselves, but the ones who really are marginalised are those Bosnian Croats who can scarcely find a place for themselves in this scheme of things.
What is urgently needed is for the reform of the constitution to bring about a symmetrical federation of all three ethnic groups, and it must at the same time prune the cantons and the bureaucratic superstructures that make it impossible for the country to be run efficiently.
The second significant aspect is one that I have already mentioned, namely the faith communities and the absolutely fundamental part that they play in the country.
When Bosnia became Austrian, the Austrians set up a public body for Muslims, and it is worth noting that it still exists in Austria today, making Austria the only EU country in which there is a representative organisation for Muslims that Muslims themselves accept as such.
EU support along this path has been and will continue to be particularly significant.
I hope that both the EU and the leaders of Bosnia and Herzegovina will seize the prospect of a stability and association agreement to turn their country into a grown-up state, on the road to EU membership. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the 10 years that have passed since the Dayton peace accords were signed have brought peace to Bosnia and Herzegovina but have not resolved major political and social problems.
Positive factors, such as relatively good economic growth and reforms in police, defence and taxation matters, should not obscure the fact that without fundamental constitutional reforms, it is difficult to be positive about the future for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are counting on a better future with close relations with the European Union.
We cannot allow this prospect to be threatened by internal political or ethnic strife.
I would also like to wish the Austrian Presidency every success in resolving the complex problems of the Balkans.
Today, more than sixty years later, the wounds of that civil war are still healing in certain towns and corners of Spain, a war which, from an ethnic point of view, cannot be compared to the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina and was very much easier to explain.
But it is clear that Dayton cannot be the definitive solution and we must therefore clearly support the constitutional transformation in order to resolve all of the loose ends that Dayton left outstanding, which may have made sense at the time as a temporary solution, but which clearly do not contribute to creating a common political project.
Ten years after Dayton we now also want to see more of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The European Union has offered Bosnia and Herzegovina the credible prospect of full membership and real progress but this is increasingly dependent on political will and the quality of decision-making in Bosnia and Herzegovina itself.
Tragic experience has shown that progress cannot be guaranteed if any of the constituent elements of Bosnia and Herzegovina are excluded or disempowered, but can only take place on the basis of respect for the dignity of all identities and all entities.
Progress will be all the more rapid if European standards of respect for diversity and a readiness to find common denominators are enforced at the earliest possible opportunity.
When we today criticise the structures set up by Dayton, we should not forget that Dayton was the starting point for peace, and for that we must be grateful, that we must acknowledge – even if, of course, we must now admit that those structures are not ideal.
We in the European Union must ensure that this mistrust is diminished and we must do what we can to help that happen.
We must do something to support them, such as making it easier for them to travel abroad, and part of the package that the European Union will put together for them will of course consist in making it easier to obtain visas.
I would also like to thank you for this excellent debate, which shows the commitment of the European Parliament and the Presidency to our common policy in the western Balkans and its European perspective.
We should all be satisfied with the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement, which has got off to a very good start with Bosnia and Herzegovina, although we have to recognise that there are still many challenges for the country to tackle.
Many of you have stressed the need for economic development and I fully share that view.
In our pre-accession assistance we are already moving from reconstruction to economic development.
In the communication we are proposing the setting-up of a regional free trade agreement to replace the current 31&#160;bilateral free trade agreements, in order to encourage trade and investment and thus production and job creation in the area.
To show my personal commitment and that of the Commission and President Barroso, this week I shall be flying to Zagreb and later to Sarajevo. &#160;&#160; – I have received six motions for a resolution(1) in accordance with Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The Council has recently again had cause to consider the issue of Belarus, and we noted with concern that President Lukashenko’s regime is acting in an ever more repressive manner, becoming more and more isolated, not least of its own volition.
The General Affairs and Foreign Relations Council last discussed Belarus on 30 January, and the ministers agreed on new conclusions, which carry the clear message that the OSCE’s ability to perform its electoral observation mission everywhere and without hindrance must be ensured.
The Council also warned of the possibility of further restrictive measures being taken against persons in positions of responsibility if the presidential election did not meet accepted international standards.
They also referred to the intention of the High Representative, Mr Javier Solana, to appoint a close collaborator as his point of contact for Belarus.
Considerable efforts have been made to get our message across in the run-up to the elections and to ensure that it is heard clearly.
He also met with Mr Solana, with Mr Barroso, the President of the Commission, and with Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner.
Although we wish to maintain normal and friendly relations with it, that is not possible under present circumstances.
The Council will not turn a blind eye to the continuing violations of human rights and civil liberties, and it will continue to give voice to its concerns about the deteriorating conditions in Belarus.
Even though the election result is probably a foregone conclusion, we must make a joint effort to maintain the European Union’s presence and influence in Belarus.
She has been intensely engaged in developing the Commission’s activities on Belarus since we took office and I am convinced she will not miss the opportunity to discuss Belarus with the Russian Foreign Minister at their meeting that is being held in Vienna today.
On behalf of Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner and the Commission I am pleased to have this opportunity to exchange views with you on the situation in Belarus in the run-up to the 19&#160;March presidential election and on the Commission’s work to support democratisation and to support civil society.
Let me start by saying a few words on the overall situation in Belarus.
The Commission is still deeply concerned about the absence of democracy and the lack of respect for human rights in Belarus.
The European Union’s opinion and reaction will be based on this mission’s report.
In terms of the European Union’s response, you are well aware of the unequivocal message that the European Union conveyed to Belarus and reiterated in the General Affairs and External Relations Council of 30&#160;January: the European Union has stressed the importance it attaches to a democratic election process and has also clearly voiced its resolve to issue targeted sanctions in the event that these elections prove to be fraudulent.
To balance this message with a positive note, the European Union has repeated its offer to have closer relations with Belarus, provided that we see convincing progress towards democracy.
Let me now turn to the Commission’s specific action and underline that the Commission has made good on its pledge to raise its role in Belarus.
Faced with growing repression and restrictions by the Government of Belarus on foreign assistance to non-governmental bodies, the Commission has stepped up and speeded up such assistance to Belarus.
We have thus shifted part of our support to NGOs located outside Belarus.
The EUR&#160;2.2&#160;million we granted last December to the European Humanitarian University in exile, as well as our support to independent media, are vibrant examples of this novel approach.
The project will allow the broadcasting of specific TV and radio programmes as from February, well ahead of the elections.
In addition, the Commission has decided to open a delegation in Minsk but unfortunately the Belarusian authorities have not yet given their agreement.
Pending progress on this front, we will post a chargé d’affaires to Kiev who will travel frequently to Minsk.
Finally, last Monday the Commission brought together all international donors to Belarus in order to plan ahead.
In conclusion, let me emphasise that the democratic process in Belarus is likely to be a long process that will eventually succeed only with the support of the population.
This is why we must continue our efforts to raise awareness among the Belarusian population at large through support to civil society and facilitation of contacts between the people.
As Belarus stands at the crossroads, it is more crucial than ever that we all pool our efforts to implement a common strategy and be ready to react to developments in Belarus as they take place.
The Commission remains committed to doing its part. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, 19&#160;March marks the Belarus presidential election, in which there is still a chance that the country will assume its rightful place in the European family of democracies and conduct a free and fair election.
However, in reality, the chances are very small, as President Lukashenko, since his election in 1994, has turned his country into a self-isolated police state and a sham democracy.
The already poor human rights situation has deteriorated further since the passing of the anti-revolutionary law, aimed at suppressing protests, and many opposition leaders are jailed on spurious offences of corruption or, in some cases, simply made to disappear, presumably murdered.
Russia also needs to be reminded that, as it bankrolls the regime with very cheap gas at USD&#160;50 per 1&#160;000&#160;m3, it should support democracy there, being a full member of the Council of Europe.
We must continue to draw attention to these blatant violations of our democratic values in one of the EU’s neighbouring countries.
Whilst that is, on the one hand, a good sign, in that it is the consequence of our consistently critical stance towards the regime in Belarus, we must also, on the other, ask ourselves why the European Parliament could not simply take part in the OSCE mission as the EU’s official representation.
Finally, despite the deteriorated circumstances – four years ago, I took part in the observation and I think the situation now is even worse than it was then – we must make every effort, and above all, not refrain from doing anything, to support the opposition which managed to put forward a joint candidate this time round.
I hope that Parliament, with today’s statement, will in any event give the opposition and candidate Alexander Milinkevich a moral boost. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I agree with what previous speakers have said.
Hope that the presidential elections will lead to a new beginning and eventually to democracy is ebbing by the day, and, every day, President Lukashenko devises new ways of oppressing the opposition and those among his country’s people who claim the right to think differently.
We should keep a careful eye on what the people of Belarus do in a small way to express their desire for freedom and democracy.
We are well aware of how close relations are between Belarus and Moscow, and the importance of the development of this small country for its large neighbour.
The European Union’s strategy towards Belarus is therefore, in the final analysis, also a strategy towards Russia. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, as usual, I only have a few words in which to express my disagreement with what the Council and the Commission have just said.
I find it rather facile, as in other cases, to reproach a sovereign country for not conforming in every way to the models we have prescribed in order to recognise one government or another, in reality according to whether or not it suits us for any other reason.
If we are being asked today to condemn the Minsk authorities, it is not for the good of the Belarusian people, but simply so that we can blindly act as an accomplice in a United States strategy aimed at restricting Russian power as much as possible, by depriving it of its most natural historical and geographical alliances.
Our monitoring of human rights in Belarus should be based on Parliament’s annual Report on Human Rights in the World and on information provided by the special Commission and Council representative for Belarusian affairs.
The latest Commission competition has raised the doubts that are set out in the most recent question to the Commission tabled today. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Belarus is a special country, the last dictatorship in Europe.
If the elections on 19 March turn out to be rigged, the people will wait until they can have free elections at some future date.
Let Belarus choose freely between its incumbent president and Alexander Milinkevich. &#160;&#160; In Slovakia, for forty years after what became known as the Victorious February of 1948, we experienced a regime similar to the current one in Belarus.
The state machinery controlled by the communist party not only suppressed every manifestation of resistance, but also all expressions and signs of a free democratic society and the rule of law.
We note with concern that the Belarus authorities are stepping up repressive measures against civil society.
On 6 February 2006, the Supreme Court of Belarus moved to disband yet another non-governmental organisation, the Belarus Union of Youth and Children’s Associations.
According to my contacts with representatives of Belarus democratic forces, broadcasts in the Russian language might have a negative effect.
Now, before the elections, the objective of European institutions should be to take joint action towards the achievement of concrete democratic changes in that country. &#160;&#160; – Thank you, Mr President.
It is a message addressed to a people who, as the facts make clear, is being denied the freedom to choose its leaders.
It should be noted that, during the last few months, the European Union has made huge progress in taking practical steps to benefit the people of Belarus.
On behalf of the Bureau of the Delegation for Relations with Belarus, I would thank the Council and the Commission, but there is more still to be done.
We now have to show strong support for the people of Belarus, especially its young people.
The authorities who want to curtail freedom know that young people are the main protagonists of change.
The authorities have even closed down RADA, which represents youngsters from Belarus in the European Youth Forum.
We again extend our support to the people, and in particular the young people, of Belarus, and we promise to be with them at their moment of trial. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there are surely not very many people who believe that the presidential elections in Belarus on 19&#160;March will live up to even the most elementary democratic ground rules.
President Lukashenko will do everything to defend his position and consolidate his dictatorship.
The opposition has been deprived of equal opportunities to send out its political messages, and the election campaign by the candidate for the united opposition, Mr&#160;Milinkevich, is shaping up to be a very difficult one.
We must do everything to support the democratic forces in Belarus in the run-up to the election.
The situation in Belarus is becoming worse and worse.
The conditions for a democratic election are unfortunately very poor.
Critical, independent media have very little room for manoeuvre.
In this situation, we must do everything we can to support the forces of democracy and make efforts to bring about both a fair election and extensive election monitoring.
For that to happen, democracy is required. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, a free flow of information from Europe is vital in supporting democracy in Belarus.
I would like to emphasise that, firstly, the resources we have allocated to radio broadcasts to Belarus have to date not had the desired effect.
The decision by the European Commission to award a EUR&#160;2 million contract to the German/Russian consortium for broadcasting to Belarus, knowing that the Russian television station already has generous contracts with the Belarus Government, and also that broadcasts take place in Russian, is in my opinion an unacceptable waste of money.
Secondly, the European Union must support the democratic press of Belarus.
Finally, I would also like to urge the European Commission and the Council to call more insistently for the immediate release of Mikhail Marinich, the opposition leader being detained on political grounds. &#160;&#160; – The situation in Belarus, with just over a month remaining until the elections, leaves little hope that the Presidential Elections in this country will be democratic, free or fair.
Apparently, the President's opponents are useless scoundrels, while the West does not understand the situation in Belarus and seeks to destabilise the country, but will be unable to do so because Belarus has President Lukashenko.
The presence of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe during the presidential election is of the highest importance.
The situation of citizens of Belarus concerning the independence of the media and freedom of expression is gradually getting worse, which is why we strongly support the establishment of radio network broadcasting from Poland, Lithuania and possibly Ukraine.
Furthermore, the actions taken by the Government of Belarus against the Union of Poles in Belarus and the Roma minority, as well as the decision to ban the reformed evangelical church, are examples of the lack of respect for minority rights, as well as freedom of association and belief. &#160;&#160; – Besides bad news from Minsk, there is also good news from Vilnius.
At the same time we have received some bad news from Minsk.
This youth organisation had already won international recognition and was developing relations between young people in Belarus and many European youth organisations.
That is what the European Union is doing, and I am grateful to your House for its commitment to this and for the clear affirmations that have emerged from this debate.
Perhaps I might be permitted to say, in response to Mrs&#160;Schroedter’s intervention, that it certainly is arguable that the instruments available have not, to date, been used in an effective way.
This is something we are endeavouring to improve, and with that in mind, I would like to say that the creation of the European Neighbourhood Policy as a new foreign aid instrument will improve matters; that is what we want to work towards, so that the more efficient use of resources may be guaranteed.
It goes without saying that the order of business for this important meeting includes Belarus, for it is indeed important that Russia should spell out where it stands on this matter, and we all know that Russia does, of course, have a certain influence on what goes on there.
Reference has been made to the presidential elections, which would in themselves present Belarus with an opportunity to take the right road forward.
As most speakers have said, its chances of doing that are not very considerable, and the Commission and the Council will have to give some thought to how they will respond in the event of irregularities in the elections.
As I stated in my opening remarks, the Commission, for its part, has played an active role in Belarus through its support for NGOs and media organisations and action to help raise awareness among the Belarusian population in the hope that this may bring about democratic change.
The European Union has stressed the importance it attaches to a democratic election process, and we are ready to offer closer relations if and when we see convincing progress towards genuine democracy and respect for human rights.
In response to what Mr Wiersma and other Members said concerning the presidential election scheduled for 19&#160;March, the Commission regrets that the European Parliament has not been invited to observe the elections.
We will be following closely what the OSCE/ODIHR mission will be reporting on the elections.
Regarding the point raised by Ms Schroedter and other MEPs, I should like to repeat that the Commission is seeking to address the situation in a novel way through support for the European Humanitarian University in exile and for independent media.
Regarding what Ms Záborská said, I would again emphasise that a good part of the Commission strategy is to support independent media in both the Russian and Belarusian languages – in particular – to ensure that they can truly act as a catalyst for change.
With regard to Mr Pavilionis’s point, I cannot agree more that we need to support any action in favour of the youth of Belarus and, in particular, in favour of the European Humanitarian University in exile.
The EUR&#160;2&#160;million media project involves not only partners from Germany and Russia, but also a Polish radio station, a Lithuanian radio station, German and Dutch NGOs and Belarusian journalists.
All television and radio programmes will be in both Russian and Belarusian.
Television programmes aired in Russian will systematically be subtitled in Belarusian. &#160;&#160; – I have received six motions for resolutions(1) pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
More than half of our Members have signed Written Declaration&#160;69 on combating racism in football.
I thank all Members who have signed.
A similar situation exists in the field of tolls and charges for road vehicles, the imposition of which is often related to, and justified by, the costs incurred by national authorities for the construction and upkeep of the road infrastructure.
However, national provisions introducing car taxes, tolls or charges have to be in line with the general principle of the EC Treaty and, in particular, should not give rise to border-crossing formalities in trade between Member States and should respect the non-discrimination principle.
The Commission is of the opinion that, if the imposition of toll charges for road vehicles is not conditional on a decision to reduce car taxes simultaneously, and if these measures do not include any direct or indirect discrimination based on the nationality of the road vehicle, they are not contrary to Article&#160;12 of the EC treaty.
I would like to recall that the Commission gave a similar reply to an oral question during Question Time at Parliament’s December 2005 part-session.
If Germany were to introduce a toll, as referred to in the oral question, the Commission would of course examine those provisions in depth. &#160;&#160; Madam President, on the subject of the infrastructure costs directive, I should like to ask the Commissioner what the Commission is considering doing in order to further advance the principle of the internalisation of external costs.
The European Parliament confirmed the need for infrastructure charging when it adopted the report of the conclusions of the White Paper on 12&#160;January 2003.
The Commission policy on road charges and tolls is that they are an important instrument for financing investment in infrastructure, managing traffic and encouraging private-sector investment in infrastructure management.
First, in respect of television advertising, since 1989 the Television Without Frontiers directive has provided that such advertising shall not cause moral or physical detriment to minors.
In particular, television advertising shall not directly exhort minors to buy a product or service by exploiting their inexperience or credulity, directly encourage them to persuade their parents or others to purchase the goods or the services being advertised, or exploit the special trust that minors usually have in parents, teachers and in others close to them.
A proposal for an amendment to this directive, adopted by the Commission on 13&#160;December 2005, would extend these provisions to other types of audio-visual content.
In addition, the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive, which was adopted in 2005, includes similar provisions.
Can I push you a bit further on that last point you made, because up until then I was a little disappointed with what you were saying in implying that the legislation was already there.
The EU already legislates, as you outlined in your remarks, but you also implied that this legislation was the basis that could be used.
It is also quite clear that we do not want to see a situation where young people might become overweight, causing severe problems later in life, not only for their own health but also for society.
Therefore, parents and other adults who are around young people during the day have a responsibility in this area.
The agreement on the 2007-2013 perspective reached at the December 2005 European Council implies a significant reduction of around 40% of the overall amount of appropriations allocated to Heading 1a which, in addition to the transport sector, covers areas such as research, education, competitiveness and new technologies.
The Commission is therefore unable to give a precise reply to the honourable Member regarding the consequences of the reduction of the amounts contained in its original proposal for a financial perspective until the figures have been finally decided upon by interinstitutional agreements.
Those discussions are ongoing. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, thank you for your reply and your honesty, but you have not convinced me that the Commission is addressing the issue with the necessary seriousness for a sector which is so important to the completion of the internal market and the competitiveness of the European Union.
Solutions in this sector take time.
However, I am really not in a position today to give any signals at all on the ongoing discussions on the financial perspectives for the period up to 2013.
As I said in my initial response, it is a discussion that is going to take place in the interinstitutional areas that are always in these negotiations at this crucial time. &#160;&#160; I would like to ask how the reduction in funding for ‘Trans-European Networks’ projects will affect the new European Union countries, whose transport infrastructure, in particular rail transport, lags considerably behind the level of the countries of Old Europe.
As we all know, the various transport operators are perfectly willing to pay tolls, and the new infrastructure costs directive established a very narrow base on which these charges were to be levied, so let me follow up the previous question by asking whether it might not be possible to come up with a proposal for extending that and making cross-financing possible? &#160;&#160; .
Statistics on participation in the sixth Framework Programme of the European Community for research for the period 2007-2013 show that in the majority of EU Member States, including Lithuania, small and medium-sized businesses often received less funding than universities and other centres of research or institutes.
First, regarding the total budget for the Seventh Framework Programme for Research, the Commission proposal will need to be revised in the light of the developments in the financial perspective for 2007-2013.
Secondly, regarding cooperation between research organisations and enterprises, in particular SMEs, the Commission agrees that this is of crucial importance.
In Framework Programme 6, a variety of measures has been taken in order to promote SME participation in the thematic areas where they collaborate with other firms and research organisations.
The framework programmes are thus already promoting participation by SMEs and their cooperation with research organisations very actively.
With specific reference to the honourable Member’s suggestion to set a quantified target for SME participation, the Commission takes note of the fact that the Council has introduced a target of 15% SME participation as part of the partial general agreement on FP7.
I agree with the honourable Member that it is a large sum of money, because there are important challenges which are ahead of us if we are to deal with questions such as how to sustain our quality of life and remain globally competitive.
I believe it is crucial that, on the one hand, we try to stimulate the potential of Member States which are less developed, smaller and maybe do not have the potential to compete on an equal basis today.
On the other hand, we have to be aware that the European Union should be aiming for the top.
It is not allowing us to be totally in line with the major competitors, especially when we talk about the percentage of GDP invested in research and development.
It would also give us the opportunity to address some of the more risky businesses which the EIB – in line with banking logic – is not addressing.
I am sure that this is not a magical answer which will solve our problems, but I sincerely hope that it will be followed by some other financial institutions across Europe. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to ask the Commissioner precisely how he envisages this reduction in bureaucracy operating in practical terms, since we keep hearing small and medium-sized enterprises complaining that the bureaucratic hurdles – unlike those of national research support programmes – are insurmountable.
However, I am firmly convinced that, with goodwill, we can take a major step towards at least reversing the negative trend.
On the same day as we adopted the framework programme, we also adopted the special paper dealing with questions of simplification.
First of all, a new scheme on regions of knowledge provides support to research-and-development-intensive regional clusters.
The proposal for the seventh Framework Programme recognises the role of regional actors in developing the research capacity of their region and supports projects focused on regional research-driven clusters.
Activities are provided for under the strand of research infrastructure that would have important implications for some regions in Europe, and, last but not least, the Eranet and the Eranet+ activities that will also involve research players at regional level.
The fact that this is now taking one step further, including schemes targeted specifically at regions, must not allow us to forget that the framework programme has contributed to research and development in the regions in many more ways and will continue to do so.
Marie Curie fellowships will maintain support for research and development human resources, with a direct impact on regional research capacities.
In addition, they will become more efficient in using structural funds resources for research investment.
This presents a real opportunity to make progress towards the Barcelona objective of 3% of GDP investment in research and development in the context of the Lisbon strategy.
It is obvious that we must address the issue of catching up at European, national and regional levels, and that is clearly acknowledged in the proposal for the framework programme. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I thank the Commissioner for his comprehensive reply.
I would like to ask him what monitoring system has the Commission in mind to ensure that there is a balance and an equal share-out of the funding across the regions?
Being aware that we have to develop the potential of the regions, the Commission’s approach in the proposal is and always has been synergetic.
It is crucial that one reads carefully the cohesion guidelines prepared by the Commission, which try to give a clear message that the Member States, in addressing their problems in the regions, need to take into account the structural and cohesion funds which are important in this respect for catching up with the Lisbon goals.
As I said before, we also try to do that through our programmes.
It is crucial to have incentives to give those that are not on top today a lift upwards. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for having drawn attention to the fact that research can be supported via structural funds resources.
It is important that we recognise the need for the right balance between physical infrastructure on the one hand and intellectual infrastructure and other steps on the other, to stimulate innovation in regions which are today cohesion regions and less developed than the average in the European Union.
The principles in the approach to the revision were outlined at a meeting of Parliament’s Committee on Industry, Research and Energy on 26&#160;January 2006.
The framework programme aims to make European research more attractive and to create more mobility for researchers.
The purpose of my question was to communicate to you the concerns of our scientific community at the cuts planned in the funding for European science and technology.
Though it is true that we must wait until the end of the negotiations, in practice it is essential to know as soon as possible what ideas you are considering in order to adapt the Framework Programme to the smaller amount of resources and we are therefore grateful for your explanations.
It is fundamental both in order to continue our parliamentary work and in order to be able to inform our researchers, who want an end to this situation of uncertainty about the future of their research projects, which has gone on for too long already.
That is happening with or without our investment.
That is why I agree with you totally that our common endeavours are very important for Europe to benefit.
The rest is invested from the budgets of the Member States.
Private funding is even more important than public funding.
In the European Union, approximately 55% of private money is invested, compared to 45% of public money.
It is crucial that we try to stimulate not only the public but also the private sector.
Three per cent is a kind of indicator of whether we are doing things correctly.
Our horizontal policies which we are using across all our sectors are consistent and are those which are truly up to the challenges which we have to face today. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one of today’s newspapers quotes Mr Jean-Claude Juncker as saying that the Financial Perspective, the Council’s offer should not be the last word.
We have the interinstitutional talks going on and we all know the position of Parliament, which was quite definite.
I always welcomed the support from Parliament in our joint endeavours to stimulate education, research and development and innovation, the whole ‘knowledge triangle’.
I very much appreciate your support. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, in order for scientific research programmes to succeed, it is very important that businesses participate in them, both by using scientific research inventions and by funding them.
My question would be as follows: do you cooperate and in general coordinate activities between two Members of the Commission and two types of programmes? &#160;&#160; . ‘Yes, we do’ – that would be the shortest answer.
This is the first time that this kind of tool and this kind of logic have been developed at European Union level.
I believe that we are part of a process that will produce hugely important benefits.
On the basis of their views for the long-term future, where you have an idea of what research should be undertaken, to the final product and the business sector’s ideas on how to evaluate it in their work, we take this input on board when we create our cooperation activities.
In practice, that is in the major part of our programmes.
Moreover, in some areas, where we believe that this long-term, strong partnership exists, and where there is strong commitment from the companies and other actors, such as Member States, for instance, we are ready to develop what are known as ‘joint technological initiatives’, which are a new long-term tool with clear cofinancing, as a new tool, from the European Commission.
As a complement to the Commission’s reply to Written Question E-4200/05, asked previously by the honourable Member, on the issue of the goodwill ambassadors, the Commission can reassure the honourable Member that its intention during the period of reflection is to listen to citizens’ views on a range of EU issues and to draw conclusions from the debates held at all levels.
The issues discussed will be very varied and they may or may not include recommendations on the desirable level of integration at EU level, but the role of the Union will certainly be tackled and in any case the content of the database of debates will be reflected in the feedback process.
This process will start with an initial synthesis report that will be presented by the Commission to the European Council under the Austrian Presidency in order to prepare the stocktaking exercise at the June 2006 European Council.
Moreover, in the organisation of national debates the European institutions have an important role to play, but the primary responsibility rests with the Member States.
Concerning the second part of the honourable Member’s question, the Commission would like to stress that the different initiatives suggested by Plan&#160;D at European level are part of a long-term plan and are being implemented at a different pace in the 25 Member States.
The European goodwill ambassador plan is one of the measures that need to be further developed in most of the countries of the EU and in cooperation with the Member States, depending on the creativity and the proposals identified by those involved in the process.
There is no single model for every country, just as there is no standard model for the organisation of the debates in the Member States.
I believe that Europe is simply too big and there are so many misunderstandings in Europe today that none of us, even if we tried wholeheartedly, can address them properly.
I believe that any action we can take to raise awareness of what the European Union really is might bring us better results.
On a complementary basis, in order to stimulate the implementation of Plan&#160;D at a local level, EUR&#160;4.5&#160;million will be decentralised to the Commission’s representations in order to develop debates at regional and local levels and to improve synergy and coordination between national, regional and EU levels for the implementation of Plan&#160;D.
The objectives of the new network have been streamlined in order to better meet the information needs of the public.
As regards the financial mechanisms put in place to support the network, they need to comply with the EC financial regulation.
The new relays were therefore selected on the basis of a call for proposals, following the decision from the Commission, C/2004/2869.
Furthermore, Digicom is planning to launch a complementary call for proposals at the beginning of 2007 in order to open new relays in geographical areas insufficiently covered by the current network and taking into account future enlargement to Romania and Bulgaria.
Concerning the assessment of the impact of the networks, an internal assessment of the former information relays in 2003 revealed the real value of the relays as partners in the communication policy, especially at the local and regional level.
As for the new relays, starting from the second semester of 2006, an online monitoring system will be implemented in order to assess the activities of the information relays.
The contract covers the production and distribution costs of the EU programmes.
One of the selection criteria was the capacity and the will of EuroNews to develop its geographical and language coverage.
Since the contract was signed, a window has been opened in Romania and in the Romanian language; agreements have been signed in India, China and elsewhere.
EuroNews is also diversifying the various distribution technologies through which it can be received: cable, DTT, mobile phones, etc.
EuroNews is a candidate to be distributed via digital terrestrial television, Lietuvos Telekomas, and hoping for a positive answer.
In the case of Italy, it has already been possible to grant such transitional aid, corresponding to approximately EUR&#160;11 per tonne of sugar beet per production year.
The reform of the common agricultural policy (CAP reform), adopted in 2003 in accordance with the decisions in the agricultural sphere previously taken in Berlin, Gothenburg and Brussels, is now in the process of being implemented.
In the new Member States, the reform clearly lies within the budget framework for the enlarged EU, laid down in Brussels in 2002.
If, moreover, I might refer to a relatively topical example, it is clear that I have fought with all the legal means available to me against the proposal for a voluntary modulation of up to 20%, put forward by the British Presidency in connection with the negotiations concerning the next financial perspective, namely that for 2007-2013.
This principle will remain unchanged after the reform and Poland is no exception to this rule.
The restructuring fund will be set up in order to facilitate the necessary restructuring measures that should lead to lower sugar production in the less competitive regions within the European Union.
Undertakings which renounce their sugar quota will be eligible for restructuring aid over a transitional period of four years.
It should also be emphasised that, independently of the restructuring fund that we have just talked about, sugar beet growers will receive direct aid as compensation for their loss of revenue due to the reduction in prices.
They will receive this direct aid even if they stop producing sugar beet.
This is very important.
For the new Member States specifically, there will clearly be no phasing-in of the direct payment for the sugar beet compensation.
The sugar beet producers in the new Member States will receive exactly the same amount per hectare in compensation as the EU-15, which means that there is no phasing-in as there is for cereals.
During 2006-2007 and 2007-2008, the reference price for raw sugar will decrease by only 5%, while the producers of sugar beet in the European Union will see a decrease of 20% the first year, and 27.5% the following year.
It is quite clear that the different conditions for the ACP countries after the introduction of a reform within the European Union has been discussed at length before finalising the political agreement in the Council.
Therefore the decision was taken to allocate EUR&#160;40&#160;million specifically for the period from 1&#160;July until the end of this year.
For the period within the next financial perspective it has been quite clear that the Commission’s wish to allocate a significantly higher budget than the aforementioned EUR&#160;40&#160;million will be dependent on the ongoing discussions on the financial perspective for the next period.
I can only say that within the Commission proposal, a budget of EUR&#160;190&#160;million a year was in the budget and I therefore hope that there will be an understanding also in this Parliament of the need to help these ACP countries, specifically in a transitional period. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
I am talking about the fact that the collateral damage from the effects of the reform of the sugar regime has been felt by the 18 protocol countries.
I am now following that very closely.
Afterwards, Mr Michel, who is responsible for the development money, took part in a press conference with me on this because bioethanol might be an alternative for those countries that want to stop producing sugar.
But it has been important for the Commission to send a clear signal that we care about the possibilities for these sugar-producing ACP countries.
For example, we have been able to have direct contact during Council meetings on two occasions.
My intention with the communication on risk and crisis management presented in March 2005 was to launch a comprehensive debate.
I think that objective has been successfully achieved, in the Council, in the European Economic and Social Committee and now in the European Parliament.
Your contribution will be essential for the progress of our work.
I therefore take note of your position regarding the three options for new rural development measures to support risk and crisis management.
As you have noticed, however, the subject of risk and crisis management is really very complex, notably because the purpose is to adapt to a changing international trade context in respect of WTO rules.
As regards the analytical background, at the beginning of 2005 we launched a research project on risk and crisis management instruments for EU agriculture.
The work is well advanced and we should have some intermediate results in the coming year.
We are also preparing a study on the agricultural insurance systems in the various Member States and the technical issue of insurance systems in agriculture.
It is essential to describe and analyse what is done at Member State level before eventually deciding whether we need to set up permanent European instruments for insurance possibilities.
We will then have a good basis for discussion during the coming year, which will facilitate the detailed political debate that is essential before we agree on additional measures.
However, this resulted in a distribution of aid that very much favoured larger holdings to the detriment of the smaller ones.
These also resulted in partial surpluses being generated in a region of the European Union that is one of the biggest importers of foodstuffs in the world, because this state intervention had given rise to a sort of vacuum effect.
Following the reforms, we have therefore attempted to at least start to put an end to this, but the money is still being distributed in the same ratio.
This is nothing to do with large and small holdings&#160;–&#160;it is to do with the production method, in other words with where workers are actually employed.
We – and I as the rapporteur – take the view that, of the options you have listed here, we obviously need to look into the first option of insurance against natural disasters; this already occurs, but just needs to be put on a more systematic basis.
Option 2, regarding whether there is or should be a mutual fund, is an interesting consideration, but, as I said earlier, it should be made clear here too that the payments that farmers have to make to these funds must take account both of the scale of production and of the farmer's ability to pay, so that the new system does not end up once again in inequalities to the detriment of rural farming.
It is also important for farmers themselves to be involved in this insurance, in other words for there to be cofinancing from the farms, so that we do not end up with state protection, replacing one system with the other, that is to say bringing the system we have just abolished back to life under a different name.
This relates to providing basic coverage against income crises.
Natural disasters and unpredictable risks obviously always result in loss of income, in other words to economic strain.
However, we must not run the risk of this coverage against income crises taking us back to the old system of guaranteed incomes via state intervention.
It will be clear from our report just how careful we have been about this.
Nevertheless, some groups have concentrated on this area in their amendments, and have at least said that we should look into the possibility of supporting these measures and the connection with the WTO.
To that we say that the reforms dismantled the old-style intervention system, and it must not be replaced. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, everyone knows that agricultural production is vulnerable to climate conditions.
The previous speaker told us so and there is no need for us to repeat ourselves.
Everyone also knows that, under the old CAP, there was far more protectionism towards Greek farming than there is under the present common agricultural policy and I greatly fear that the next common agricultural policy will be even worse.
We consider that the insurance system, however it works, will have its pros and cons, but we consider that the participation of the European Union in financing is very, very small and I think that we should be more generous on this point.
In addition, I would like to say that particular importance needs to be attached to fruits, which are sensitive products and which have greater need for protection.
Similarly, we have seen over recent days a large rise in fuel prices which, for numerous agricultural crops, will result in a ruinous increase in costs.
We consider it particularly important for the entire system to be subject to speedy intervention.
For many years, the common agricultural policy protected farming and farmers in Europe.
While recent reform has made farmers more market-oriented, it has also forced them to shoulder the responsibility for risk management.
Non-agricultural undertakings, traders and insurance companies have created a whole portfolio of insurances, to cover even such sophisticated situations as exchange rate fluctuations or income loss due to political circumstances in the case of foreign investments.
Both the Commission’s communication and the rapporteur’s excellent report show just how far behind this issue has fallen in the European Union.
A farmer-entrepreneur running a farm on the free market after the reform and in the face of enormous competition is risking everything, without having even the insurance fallback that is available to the investor or trader.
A large or highly productive farm will be in a position to cover the cost of insurance and the cost of risk, but millions of small and family-run farms in Europe cannot afford to pay for insurance to cover their own homes, let alone their production.
Even the richest countries of the European Union are not in a position to take on this task on their own.
This means that a common and universal insurance system must be set up to include all Member States and all farmers as part of a reinsurance scheme.
The 1% from modulation proposed by the Commission will not be sufficient for a reinsurance scheme, let alone setting up a system of prevention and indemnification.
Spain has the most effective insurance system currently in place in Europe.
I therefore call on the Commission to universally apply this system as rapidly as possible and to adopt it as a standard model in the European Union.
Only then should discussions be opened with major insurance companies and national governments about an appropriate system that would be universal and compulsory, solvent and low in cost, fair and based on the principle of subsidiarity.
Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for rightly mentioning the exclusion of the new Member States from the 1% modulation, and proposing an alternative funding scheme for these countries to the Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Graefe&#160;zu&#160;Baringsdorf, for his work on the report on risk and crisis management in agriculture.
Also fresh in our memories is the huge amount of expenditure incurred by Europe as a result of infectious diseases in animals and efforts to eradicate and combat these.
Finally, I should like to say very clearly that we do not want to go back to the State aid or disguised State aid of earlier times. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Parliament’s Committee on Agriculture has a major credibility problem.
The committee takes decisions that often have only one purpose, namely to grab more money for itself and its friends.
It is depressing to see how often Members of the European Parliament, who otherwise work to bring about a green Europe and to forestall disaster where the climate is concerned, go no way towards discovering what goes on in the Committee on Agriculture.
It is nothing less than appalling that the proposal concerning aid in connection with oil can reach plenary at all.
I do not, unfortunately, believe that anything will happen until the European Parliament obtains real influence over agricultural policy and until we get rather more people with farther-reaching visions of Europe in the committee. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, risk and crisis management measures need to be introduced in the agricultural sector.
However, we all know that, even in such cases, some companies do not insure certain categories of risks because they are unprofitable.
In addition, the report accepts the incentives set by the Commission, relating mainly to reinsurance, which needs to be free or with reduced reinsurance premiums by national agencies or by introducing reinsurance premium subsidies, in order to safeguard the companies' profitability.
The debacle that Britain suffered during the foot-and-mouth outbreak in 2001, is eloquent testimony to what happens when crises are managed by the EU.
I would ask Members to reject this report, until a study has been made of the practical implications and the cost of implementing its recommendations.
I would like to take this opportunity to say, Commissioner, that fuel payments and biofuel production are of particular interest to Polish farmers.
Biofuel production will boost income and make farmers feel more secure.
More market thus also means a need for more private-sector involvement in the management of agricultural risks and crises.
The report provides some very positive proposals&#160;–&#160;an astonishing number coming from a Green rapporteur.
That is why we have to design reinsurance systems, and the European Union must also provide an aid framework that allows both private solutions and public coverage for extreme risks.
However, we must bear in mind that we cannot insure against every conceivable eventuality.
However, I should like to say to Mrs Fischer Boel that you need to put far more pressure on the Council so that future Councils of Ministers follow an integrated policy in this sector and the Agriculture and Fisheries Council does not confine itself simply to a sectoral perception of management policy, such as for example, in the fruit sector, because, as far as the fruit sector is concerned, insurance policy funds will come from the sector itself and will have nothing to do with cofinancing or financing from the fluctuation mechanism.
As you all know, we are in what I believe is the most sensitive development of the common agricultural policy, a development which is being judged by global trade itself and by the corresponding European Union agreements.
On the other hand, we have the financial framework which is being set at the negotiating table between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission with the guillotine of the common agricultural policy review clause.
Above all, however, what we have to hope for, as Parliament, is that there will be a full guarantee of farmers' incomes and of agricultural production in the European Union.
I should like to stress, for the benefit of my honourable friends worried about competitiveness, that a great many of our international commercial competitors have applied the price security index even at the level of loss of income due to changes in commercial pricing policy, a policy covered by WTO agreements.
Although the Commission has put forward a number of options for managing risks and crises, its proposals do not take account of the problems facing small and medium-sized holdings and family farming, which are under threat from an unfair common agricultural policy and from World Trade Organisation negotiations.
What is more, quite apart from urging the cofinancing of insurance premiums against natural disasters paid by farmers, the Commission is proposing to finance this from just 1% of funds from modulation, which is clearly inadequate.
What is needed, as we have been proposing, is a public insurance scheme financed by the EU, with a view to creating a better policy framework for risk management and crisis prevention, which is crucial for family farming.
As the rapporteur points out, the Commission’s proposals do not take sufficient account of the level of risk and probability of crises.
It is therefore crucial that the Commission carry out a more detailed assessment of the instruments and measures that could prevent collapses in prices, market crises, farmers’ income losses and all obstacles standing in the way of their continuing to farm.
I note, Commissioner, your willingness to take on board arguments put forward in this debate, and look forward to seeing this put into practice, both in terms of risk and crisis management in farming, and in the creation of a safety net in relation to the forthcoming reforms of common organisation of agricultural markets, in particular of wine, fruit and vegetables.
What is also needed is to provide for the possibility of granting aid for farmers to purchase fuel when the price has increased sharply. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I thank Mr&#160;Graefe zu Baringdorf for his report.
Animal diseases and natural disasters are going to happen and we must find a flexible approach to these.
The CAP reform is now moving towards offering help for farmers to help themselves.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf referred to young farmers in his report.
Had he been part of the inquiry here in the European Parliament, he would have found that was not the case.
I have to admit to you that the blame lay with the UK Government and a Prime Minister who was hell bent on calling a general election and wanted to get the disease under control.
I would have liked to put Mr Titford right on that and other points. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, recent years and in particular the past year have provided eloquent examples of the variety of risks and crises facing Europe’s farmers.
In 2005, at the same time as thousands of hectares of forest were being destroyed by fire, with the loss of human life, and when a number of parts of southern European were stricken by drought, a number of countries of Central Europe were afflicted by devastating floods.
What is more, animal diseases and the inexorable liberalisation of trade have particularly exposed farmers to fresh risks and uncertainties.
The Commission’s initiative underpinning this report is therefore a welcome one.
I also feel that this report is an important tool in a broader approach that the issue merits, not least as part of the ongoing debate on the solidarity fund, the forestry strategy that we will certainly discuss, along with the own-initiative reports on natural disasters being drawn up by various committees.
This is the best contribution it can make towards the Union being in a position to provide adequate, urgently-needed protection for its farmers, firstly to prevent the occurrence of crises and risks, but also to rectify them if it proves impossible to prevent them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the report on risk and crisis management in the agricultural sector is welcome and could not be more timely.
It deserves the protection against risks proposed by the rapporteur in this report.
For us to really manage, or in other words to reduce, the risk involved in agricultural production, we need to manage that risk.
A number of these actions have already been taken.
Together, they will make it possible to eliminate adverse phenomena and reduce production risks. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is always good to belong to one of the larger groups, because you get more time.
However, Commissioner, I am also talking about the possibility of economic development in rural areas and the fact that, when it comes to the second pillar, we are now threatened with financial exhaustion.
We should then not be surprised if many farmers who have entered these higher-value markets are prevented from pursuing this development by exhaustion and are on the point of getting out.
General agricultural policy therefore also has to fulfil a preventative function.
We can operate crisis prevention in this context, too, and I would like these preventative considerations to play a role in the legislative proposal by the Commission – which is currently in the brainstorming phase this year.
Many of the points mentioned in the report are covered by the ongoing studies that the Commission has initiated, for example, proposals 2, 5, 7, 19 and 23.
Regarding the safety-net provision – proposal 8 – the discussion in the Council has not produced a clear mandate for introducing a general safety clause in all COMs or for trying to finance this insurance out of the modulated money.
I completely agree with your rapporteur, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, that basic coverage against income reduction is not a solution.
I am positive about the content of proposals 18, 24 and 26.
I also take this opportunity to draw your attention to the review of the state aid guidelines adopted by the Commission on 8&#160;February.
The Commission proposes to include compensation for bad weather and animal and plant diseases in the present exemption regulation for state aid within the agricultural sector.
The Commission has looked into a number of options for encouraging the development of risk crisis management tools and providing an improved response in the event of a crisis.
My intention for the communication was, firstly, to have a comprehensive orientation debate in the Council and here in Parliament before tabling any legislative proposal.
The discussions we have had so far in the Council have not, as I said, produced a clear mandate to introduce a general safety clause.
Since I consider crisis and risk management an important issue for the future as well, even in the situation of an absence of a clear mandate from the Council I am prepared to examine the introduction of a crisis management provision, as I said previously, on a case-by-case basis.
There was a question about the position of the new Member States.
As we have pointed out in the communication, we could envisage identifying a comparable envelope in rural development, just as we do for the old Member States – a clear signal to the ten new Member States.
There is a strong responsibility for the farmer, but there is also a need for solidarity when crises arise.
Listening to the discussions in the European Parliament as well as in the Council, it seems to me that the approaches are fairly different.
My conclusion is, therefore, that we need to study the options carefully and discuss them before taking a final decision on the instruments to be used.
I am thinking specifically about our recent discussions on bioethanol and the possibility of taking full advantage of agriculture’s contribution to this future way of reducing our carbon dioxide emissions.
This has been an interesting discussion and I thank the rapporteur for what I consider to be a balanced approach to this very important issue. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The Commission believes that the main issues and challenges in the European forestry sector are well reflected in the draft opinion.
In particular, we appreciate the overall support given to the Commission’s proposal concerning the preparation of a European action plan for forestry.
In our view, the action plan should provide a coherent, verifiable and practical framework for the implementation of this strategy.
It could become a major instrument of coordination between Community actions and the forestry policies in the different Member States.
The ideas are very well expressed in the draft opinion and we fully share the rapporteur’s view on the need to develop the action plan in close cooperation with the Member States and the stakeholders.
I think we have already made progress in that respect.
The action plan will be based on the overall principles of the European forestry strategy, which are sustainability and subsidiarity.
There are three specific issues that I would like to highlight.
Competitiveness is a key pillar of sustainable forest management and it is of crucial importance in maintaining the multiple benefits that forestry provides to society, including employment opportunities in rural areas where there is nothing else.
Forestry can deliver a wide range of products and services to society and we should try to develop this potential in the future.
The second issue is that the forestry sector has to respond to social demands concerning the protection of the environment and the natural heritage, in accordance with the Gothenburg objectives of sustainable development.
Actively contributing to major European objectives, such as biodiversity, conservation or climate change mitigation, will offer new opportunities for forestry.
In relation to a previous discussion, the possibility of biomass for energy is a clear example of how forestry can contribute.
The last issue is the global importance of forestry for sustainable development and the need firmly to continue our support for international commitments for the protection and sustainable management of forestry worldwide.
That also involves measures to combat illegal logging and related trade in forest products.
With its own-initiative report on the EU forestry strategy, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has made an early entry into the discussion, and we want this report to take the process we have initiated further and deeper.
Which of our considerations and demands ultimately end up in the action plan is, of course, purely up to the Commission, but the quality of the cooperation&#160;–&#160;for which I am very grateful&#160;–&#160;leads us to believe that, on the essential issues, we are thinking along the same lines.
The starting point for our own-initiative report was the Council resolution of 1998 on a forestry strategy for the European Union, which offers a whole range of possibilities, but has no specific targets and no coherent structure.
Secondly: There are various definitions of forest both internationally and in each of our 25 countries, and we therefore ask the Commission to consider drafting a European definition, in order to make the European Union's measures in this domain transparent and comparable.
In addition to horizontal coordination, the exchange of information between the levels of the hierarchy within the Commission must be improved using the new Inter-Service Group.
Illegal logging outside the EU must be combated by means of appropriate coordinated international measures, and the EU can play its part in this.
Fifthly: Forests can help us to slow down the greenhouse effect and climate change, but only if we make greater use of their various products.
Sixthly: In order to promote the competitiveness of the sector, and thus employment and income in rural areas, Europe needs to address itself more effectively to such tasks as the mobilisation of timber resources, the removal of obstacles to the use of wood, overcoming structural problems in forestry, and the diversification of forest owners’ income.
Seventhly: since forestry-related research and development have a major role to play in connection with the Lisbon Strategy, key forestry research projects should therefore be included in the Seventh Framework Programme of Research.
We think that Europe's forests, unlike those in other regions of the world, are underutilised, not only with regard to timber&#160;–&#160;we use only 60% of the quantity grown&#160;–&#160;but also with regard to services that have previously been unmarketable.
We want the European forestry sector to improve its competitiveness in this way, because only a vibrant and competitive forestry sector can contribute to Lisbon and Gothenburg and thus to the wellbeing of Europeans. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, I should like to emphasise that forests are incredibly important to our continent and that they affect a very large number of people.
In Sweden, forests and forest management account for nearly 30% of the economy, and there are more than 15 million forest owners in Europe.
I know that there is great anxiety about the EU interfering in forestry issues and beginning to take decisions and about Brussels starting to meddle in this area.
I believe that the Commission is extremely clear in its statement: forestry policy should be based on subsidiarity.
On the contrary, the EU has a big responsibility, namely that of taking account of the forests in all its decision-making.
We in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety find, however, that coordination between the various proposals affecting our forests is almost non-existent.
I wish, therefore, to emphasise that, in my opinion, the Commission’s most important task in the future is to coordinate existing policy and monitor how it affects forests.
In conclusion, I should like to emphasise the importance of forest management.
As the Commission points out, EU forestry does, however, have problems being competitive in the global, open market, and that is something that has a price in terms of environmental value.
We are in favour of the forest strategy, Commissioner, but against market regulation, and that is something we want to make quite clear.
We are in favour of subsidiarity in forestry policy and are convinced that we should continue to go down that path.
Let me also say that the fairy tale of the dying forests of Europe we have been told for decades really was a fairy tale, a tale told more for political effect than for any other reason.
If there is growth of 450&#160;thousand hectares a year, then the forests are certainly not dying, but expanding.
We must never overlook the fact that forests account for 35% of EU territory, 3.5&#160;million jobs, 15 million owners and a production value of over EUR&#160;350&#160;million.
In a particularly complex international context, the Union urgently needs a fresh approach to the energy question, whereby biomass is duly brought to the fore, and this is borne out by the priority that the Commission and the Austrian Presidency have been attaching to the issue.
I therefore welcome the Commission’s communication on the implementation of the strategy and commend Mr&#160;Kindermann on his report.
Furthermore, there are a number of proposed amendments which I believe will help to improve upon and complete the report.
The fact that the report acknowledges the vulnerabilities of the forest is a welcome contribution to the ongoing debate on natural disasters.
The Commission will hopefully, therefore, adopt an integrated approach to this vitally important issue, an approach that sees the problem, as we do, as a whole.
In this way, the contributions of the various instruments now on the political agenda can help to improve the situation for Europe’s forests. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is a balanced one.
The report acknowledges that Member States vary in their definitions of what is meant by the word ‘forest’, which makes it difficult to offer a definitive assessment of important Community forestry measures.
I tabled an amendment calling on the Commission to make proposals to the Member States based, in particular, on tax arrangements and designed to encourage forest owners to plant indigenous species in order to maintain biodiversity and reduce fire risks.
The spirit of this proposal was echoed in the report, which recommends the adoption of measures for the prevention of fires and desertification, afforestation with native species, the promotion of diversity, the sustainable management of natural forests and the promotion of environmental services, particularly with a view to protecting water systems and combating erosion.
The implementation of these measures entails investments on the part of forest owners.
It sets out the priority axes for a policy that will be global, yet will cater specifically for each region, taking account of the economic, social and environmental potential of the forestry sector.
Thank you, Mr&#160;Kindermann, for your work, which I believe will secure a large majority in tomorrow’s vote. &#160;&#160; . – The undoubted need to maintain forests and to preserve their multifunctional nature requires effective management and support measures that take account of the range of forests and their specific problems.
I therefore do not accept the idea of emphasising a one-size-fits-all concept of the forest, when we know that there are internationally accepted definitions underpinning reports on, and periodical assessments of, the state of forests in Europe and the rest of the world.
Whilst we welcome an EU Action Plan for the sustainable development of forests, we do not endorse a number of the proposals put forward in the report before us.
We therefore call for a proper medium and long-term forest-fire prevention strategy, a specific regulation and a dedicated budgetary heading with a view to protecting the forests against fires, taking account of resolutions that have actually already been adopted by Parliament and of what happened to the previous specific Community regulation, which was regrettably removed by the Commission.
The Plan should include a programme for the protection of cork-oak forests, and a contribution towards the rearing of livestock and cork production, which is of vital importance for rural development across vast areas of countries in the south.
However, with forests divided to this extent among private owners, the question arises as to how economies of scale can be achieved in forest management.
I am not against private forest ownership.
In my home country, Poland, the majority of forests are state-owned, the exact figure being 82%, with 2% of this accounted for by national parks.
By comparison with other EU countries, the structure of our forests is much richer and older.
The Polish forestry model is efficient and effective.
However, what European Union aid for forests in Central Europe provides is substantial funding to train people who plant trees on their own private land, and funding for payments.
I call on the Commission and Parliament to draw on the experience of forest management in Poland.
Western Europe can learn from experience too.
The wealth of Polish forests benefits society across the entire European Union. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, what I have to say also concerns the problem facing Polish forests mentioned by the previous speaker.
Poland’s forests are a significant resource, but unlike in most EU countries, the majority – more than 80% of the total area – are state-owned.
This is the result of a long historical process and at present there are no reasons for a radical change in the structure of forest ownership in Poland.
Public opinion in Poland is largely in favour of forests continuing to be state-owned.
This is something we very much need in Poland and we trust that the Commission will demonstrate understanding of the situation. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with warm thanks to our rapporteur for his very balanced report, for he has taken a very balanced approach to the three pillars of sustainability – the economic, the ecological and the sociocultural.
The report also refers to the regional characteristics of forest management: in the South, for example, as has already been mentioned, the problems of forest fires and cork oaks; in Central Europe the high utility of the forests alongside their considerable importance for relaxation, tourism and vital protective functions, particularly in Alpine areas; and in northern Europe primarily the market orientation of timber production.
It also emphasises the importance to climate policy of wood as an energy source and building material to replace fossil fuels and building materials.
This report particularly emphasises the need to coordinate forestry-related policies at EU level and to take joint measures, agreed by vote to achieve additional effects for European forestry, whilst safeguarding subsidiarity.
It follows, then, that what we are talking about here is a European forestry strategy.
Once again, many thanks for this report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, tomorrow the European Parliament will approve the report by Mr&#160;Kindermann and, in doing so, it will be sending the Commission and the Council a clear message about the approach we want the future action plan for our forests to take.
I therefore believe that the future European forest plan must opt clearly for a policy for preserving our forests and enhancing and making the best possible use of the immense resources obtained from forest soil.
I would also like to say, however, that for a long time we Spanish Members of Parliament and many Members from countries of the South have been calling for a common forest policy to serve as an instrument for managing this heritage, which benefits the whole of the Union.
I therefore believe that we must not take the wrong approach: the protection of forests is good for the North and good for the South.
The multifunctional role of the forests must be enhanced on the basis of a common approach.
We would therefore urge you, Commissioner, to consider common regulation of what we see as an asset and a heritage for the whole of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Kindermann, has drafted an excellent report on the implementation of a European Union forestry strategy.
As we have already said, in the European Union forestry employs 3.4 million people, and the value of its output stands at EUR 350 billion.
It is therefore appropriate to undertake a comprehensive assessment of action on forests.
The tone of the report suggests that there is no desire to create new bureaucracy similar to the European Union’s agricultural policy.
The very fact that this area of policy is so fragmented makes this necessary.
We in the EU need to learn to rationalise our policies so as to be able to perform new tasks with the resources currently available, without always establishing new agencies.
I await the Commission’s new proposals with interest. &#160;&#160; Mr President, whilst thanking Mr&#160;Kindermann for his report, I would like to stress that the EU’s forestry strategy should have one single goal, namely a systematic extension of the land area covered by forests, particularly large forests.
Only in forests covering more than 500 ha can the biodiversity of plant and animal species be restored.
The afforestation policy can be implemented most effectively in the new Member States, particularly in Poland.
The evidence for this is that in 50 years Poland has increased its forests by almost 50% and the only virgin forests in the Union are in fact in Poland.
Supporting and promoting the Polish model of forest management is, in my view, desirable.
Any kind of discrimination against state-owned forestry undertakings makes no economic sense.
The conditions for preserving their multi-functional role are also diverse.
This means that forest management must be well-planned and sustainable in order to maximise a forest’s protective and social functions, which are no less important than its productive functions.
Studies and reports show that management is at its best in state-owned forests.
Unfortunately, in contrast to privately-owned forests, state-owned forests cannot rely on significant assistance from EU funds.
It is therefore necessary to reconsider whether the existing forestry strategy is appropriate, and whether state-owned forests should not also come within the scope of EU assistance.
Experience has shown that the forestry sector can help deliver the Lisbon Strategy objectives of sustainable economic development and competitiveness and the Gothenburg objectives, including the safeguarding of Europe’s natural resources.
The Commission is proposing to develop a European Action Plan for forest management that will be able to provide a consistent framework for implementing measures in the field of forestry, and in so doing help to make the most of the sector’s potential for Europe.
The Treaty establishing European Union does not, however, lay down a legal basis for a common forestry policy.
What is more, neither the sectoral Community policies on the forest, nor the Lisbon and Gothenburg strategies, have ultimately been sufficiently efficient to combat the deterioration of forests.
I wish to remind the Chamber of the tragedy of the forest fires and the drought which have laid waste to southern Europe in recent years, and which have unfortunately hit Portugal particularly badly.
I realise that some may see this situation as nothing more than a distant problem, but I should like to draw your attention to the major difficulties that the forestry sector in southern Europe is facing, and the problems endured by the citizens who depend on the sector.
A common forestry policy is, more than ever, of vital importance.
I therefore believe that the Member States should think very carefully about the environmental, social and economic benefits of introducing a common policy within the context of the future Constitution.
We Spanish Socialists identify in particular with this text because it recognises the importance of the forest sector in the European Union, on the basis of broader criteria than the purely economic and also because it highlights the need to produce a single interpretation of the concept of forest.
Furthermore, because I believe that the report by Mr&#160;Kindermann provides new elements which deserve to be taken into account, such as — and I believe this to be very important — the need to facilitate coordination and cooperation, both amongst the units of the Commission and between the units of the Commission and the Member States, and enhancing the fields of research, training and communication to the public, fields that are in line with the Spanish forest plan.
The EU forestry sector is incredibly diverse in terms of forest types, sizes, ownership structures and social-economic conditions.
Around 60% of forests are private.
The 10 new Member States have more state-owned forests than the former EU15.
Three thousand workers work in state forests, while private ones are run by just 120 officials.
Perhaps the Commission could provide some examples of good practice experience in forestry management? &#160;&#160; – (Mr President, speaking today in the debate on the EU’s forestry strategy, I would like to draw your attention to two facts I consider to be very important.
Their management, which has spanned a period of several decades, has been acknowledged in World Bank and EU reports as a veritable model of forest management.
Secondly, the European Union allocated around EUR 5&#160;billion for forestry measures from rural development funds in the period 2000-2006.
We see the EU action plan as an opportunity to improve the framework conditions for forest management in the enlarged European Union.
There are three things that we do not need: firstly, European regulation of the timber market, secondly, more bureaucracy, and thirdly, particularly in the current financial situation, I reject EU aid for communal or state forests.
It is crucial that the importance of forests in the EU be taken into account, in compliance with the subsidiarity principle, on account of the area that forests cover in the rural environment, their position in the rural economy as a complementary sector of activity to agriculture and their role in landscape planning, for example in preventing, and limiting the impact of, natural phenomena such as flooding and erosion.
There are several reasons why an EU forestry strategy would make it possible to establish sustainable development in forests.
In practice, such a reduction should encourage the development of this renewable energy source and of new outlets for the wood sector.
The draft of this report was also debated in Lithuania and was well received by the Forest Owners Association of Lithuania.
This subject is doubtless relevant to the whole of the European Union, in which 60% of forests are managed by 15&#160;million private owners and the average size of a privately-owned forest is only around 13 ha.
All of the EU Forestry Strategy is important, but today I would like to talk specifically about the eighth strategy element of the report, that is, the stimulation of competitiveness, employment and profitability in the forestry sector, and more precisely its 25th point, which states: ‘calls on the Commission and Member States to include in the EU Action Plan for Sustainable Forest Management effective action measures to avert dangers and cope with serious disasters (fires, storms, insect infestations and drought)’.
The report correctly underlines that a large part of the European Union's assistance for forest fire prevention is now obtained from rural development funds, and that it is necessary to consolidate the coordination of regional and national programmes by preparing Community strategic guidelines, which would help to coordinate preventive measures implemented by different state institutions.
Within this context I would like to draw your attention to the trial project for battling against natural disasters, which, thanks to the efforts of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we incorporated into the EU 2006 Budget.
The trial project is aimed at funding preventive measures to fight natural disasters, including forest fires and droughts.
I am confident that the funding of preventive measures is a much more effective means of implementing the Forestry Strategy than battling with the consequences of fires and droughts and awarding compensation from the EU Solidarity Fund for the caused damage. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to thank my colleague, Mr Kindermann, particularly for successfully probing into the issue of what European policy on forestry is and what it should be doing.
The chemical industry could exploit wood as a raw material, and the properties it has, in totally new ways.
All this, however, requires new research and knowledge.
I therefore suggest that we should consider establishing a top-level research unit in Europe for the forest and wood sector to address this issue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my view that the Union needs a common forestry management strategy.
I fully agree with the principles on which this strategy is based, particularly the recognition of the multifunctional nature of forests and their significance for the economy, the quality of life, environmental protection and the protection of biodiversity.
As a member of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, I also welcome the fact that the report, for which I would like to thank the rapporteur, calls for support for the production of biomass from wood.
Many parts of the report show the need to look at forestry management in the context of other common policies, such as environmental protection or energy.
In order for the strategy to be effective, however, it must also comply with the financial instruments of the EU.
In this context, I should like to point out that current regulations on financial support from the Union virtually exclude all mention of forests owned by the state or state enterprises.
I am pleased that the report states that EU support should not be made dependent on the form of ownership of forests.
European law should apply the principle that all forms of ownership are equal and enjoy the same legal protection.
It is necessary to bring about a situation where national experts in the area of forestry management will be able to view EU institutions as discussion partners. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the implementation of a common forestry strategy in our countries will as usual be linked to the provision of funding for these measures.
This will not be a problem for many countries, because most forests are public or privately-owned.
What, however, can be done in countries such as Poland where most of them are owned and managed by the state?
The number of funding applications for new forests has already exceeded the funding allocated for the purpose.
In the first year of the programme, new forest plantings amounted to about 6&#160;000&#160;ha.
This is an opportunity to change the structure of ownership, lower the cost of timber production and implement a common forestry policy in line with the Lisbon Strategy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased that the key issue of forestry is being debated in Parliament and that it is also the concern of other EU and international institutions.
The Commission submitted to Parliament a communication on the implementation of the forestry strategy to date.
It also sets out the issues to be included in the Union’s action plan for sustainable forestry management.
Its setting is general and succinct and it identifies the way forward to a true balance between the economic, environmental and social functions of forests within a model of sustainable forest management.
The Natura 2000 ecological network is in place in the European Union.
However, the success of this initiative will depend on the proper functioning of the funding mechanism for the network.
Funding for forestry-linked programmes must come from funds allocated for this purpose in the Union budget, and should not be dealt with in the context of rural development.
European taxpayers will be happier funding forestry or the environment than the common agricultural policy.
Forests cover one third of Europe and provide a whole range of environmental, social and economic benefits to the community.
Cross-sectoral relationships must be better understood and citizens of the Union better informed about the problems and needs of the forestry sector.
Our main objective should be to get forestry and the community to work together.
Secondly, the interservice group on forestry, which was established in 2002 to facilitate cooperation and coordination of forestry-related work between relevant Commission services, has proved to be an effective tool of coordination and is working very satisfactorily.
Its membership has increased and now comprises 11 Commission services.
It is very actively involved in the preparation of the action plan and will have a very important role in its implementation.
Regarding the concerns raised about the establishment of a European forest observatory, I believe that this should be discussed primarily among the Member States, which have the main responsibility for our forestry policy.
They can assess the added value of such an initiative in the light of the current structures and existing international institutions.
I am aware of the importance of the problem of forest fires in the European Union and the need to continue to prevent these situations from arising.
I had the opportunity to see the horrible consequences of these forest fires last year during a visit to Portugal.
The current Rural Development Regulation provides support to the Member States for important forest fire prevention measures, such as fire breaks, water points and preventive sylviculture, as well as for the restoration of the forestry production potential in forests that have been damaged by fires.
I should like to indicate that these actions will be continued during the period 2007–2013 under the new Rural Development Regulation, and Member States will, therefore, have the possibility to include forest fire prevention measures in their rural development programmes.
Quite a few honourable Members mentioned state-owned forests.
It is clear that the main objective for rural development is to revitalise rural areas and not to finance public authorities’ activities.
This is why the main target group of beneficiaries of the rural development measures related to forestry is the private sector, notably farmers, foresters and, under axis 3 in the rural development policy, the broader rural society.
Finally, I shall make two comments on the content of the action plan.
Firstly, the action plan will be designed in accordance with the key principles of the European Union forestry strategy.
The main responsibility for forest policy lies with the Member States, and actions at Community level will continue to be based on the principle of subsidiarity.
Concerning the specific proposals in the report, the Commission welcomes the recommendations contained in paragraphs 1, 4, 7, 11, 12, 14, 19, 20, 21, 24, 26 and 29.
There are a number of recommendations, notably paragraphs 3, 5, 6, 8, 10, 15, 16, 17, 18, 22, 23 and 30, which are addressed also to the Member States, and the Commission will discuss these specific proposals with the Member States when we elaborate further on the action plan.
Once again, I thank you for an extremely interesting and very good report and also for this engaged discussion, which has been very supportive. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. &#160;&#160; – The purpose of the forest action plan is to consolidate the core principles of the forestry strategy, namely sustainable forest management and strengthening the increasingly multifunctional role played by forests, highlighting their economic, social, cultural, recreational and environmental dimensions and complying with the subsidiarity principle.
It is right not to go down the road of setting up a common forestry policy.
That being said, we could have gone further by setting up a structure specially tasked with coordinating, on the one hand, national and Community policy and, on the other, all those working in the forestry sector.
The management of animal species goes hand in hand with the management of habitats.
Thanks to the excellent cooperation between Parliament, the Council and the Commission, our rural development regulation was adopted last autumn.
The strategic guidelines which are before you today are an essential element in taking further the process of developing national strategies and rural development programmes in the different Member States.
I would like to thank Parliament, and in particular, the rapporteur, Mrs McGuinness, for their help in bringing the opinion forward in a very timely manner.
We are still well on the way to delivering our rural development programmes on time.
Our strategic guidelines for rural development for the period 2007 to 2013 are meant to guide Member States in the development of their own national strategies and programmes.
I am convinced that our policy will offer many opportunities to make the rural development policy a success, but we will have to use it in the right way.
We must use it to help unlock the innovative capacity of our agri-food and forestry sectors and the economic, environmental and social potential of our rural areas and the people who live in them.
Secondly, by making the link with both the reform of the common agricultural policy and the necessary restructuring, the strengthening of the second pillar provides opportunities both for farmers and for jobs and growth.
I see this as a clear indication of the very broad consensus between the Commission and Parliament about the aims of our rural development policy.
Let me conclude this introduction, therefore, by expressing my agreement with the issues raised by the rapporteur in her report: the role of modernisation measures, the need for measures to help to encourage young farmers and farming families to stay in rural areas, and the importance of putting the heart back into our villages, sustainable farming and preservation of the rural heritage.
In my past life as a journalist I had the great pleasure of reporting on the many success stories of rural development, which, as you said, Commissioner, unlocked the potential of rural areas.
Rural development in action is much more interesting than the theory behind it.
However, we need to have rules, and that is why in this report we have set out strategic guidelines to allow Member States to plan their programmes from 2007 onwards.
I believe that the guidelines offer the flexibility that Member States need in order to draw up those programmes.
Some people speak of two different policies, but it is important to remember that it is a single policy with two different pillars.
Of course, rural development has a much wider remit: it provides for restructuring of rural regions and it allows for environmental protection and for measures to improve the quality of life for rural people.
We may regret that in the future, as it has implications, not just for food production, but also for the quality of our rural environment and landscape.
Once again, the priority is to ensure that these measures and this production are market led and that the measures we put in place under rural development programmes add value to these local products.
It is, in my view, a renationalisation of agriculture policy by the back door.
It now emerges that Member States who opt for this voluntary modulation can spend the money in any way they choose, without regard to the rules or indeed national cofinancing; this is regrettable.
Although the original Commission proposal contains much of value, we have concerns about certain aspects.
In that context, we emphasise the importance of the partnership principle and of the broadest possible involvement of all competent authorities and appropriate bodies in developing strategies at regional and/or national level as appropriate to the Member State concerned.
We are delighted by the extent to which the report addresses our concerns and commend its content to the Commission, recognising, with thanks to the Commissioner, that she has already touched on some of these issues in her introduction.
We commend it to the Council and to Parliament as a whole. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would very much like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;McGuiness, for her report.
As the Commissioner has already said in her introductory remarks, this report looks at the strategic guidelines as a bridge between the provisions of the Council regulation on rural development and the implementation of those provisions in the Member States in the form of national strategies and programme planning documents.
I know, Commissioner, that you are not happy with the Council's decision in December to reduce funding for rural development, but we need to finally set up the financial framework so that the programmes can be started on time in the Member States.
The Community strategic guidelines form the basis for establishing national strategies.
This is not just about creating new jobs, but also about safeguarding existing employment opportunities in agriculture and forestry and safeguarding all related industries, which are very important to the employment situation in our rural regions, so that we can achieve the goals that Mrs&#160;McGuiness talked about so decisively.
I would like to thank her for the excellent cooperation, as in the report she had taken into account all the comments of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
We all talk about the fact that rural development has been the greatest loser of the seven-year budget.
It is shocking that while all of us – both the Commission and Parliament say that rural development, the second pillar, ought to be given more money, exactly the opposite is happening.
Incidentally, as an MEP from a new Member State, I deeply regret that the rural development fund of old Member States has been decreased by 15-20%, but the rural development fund of new Member States has only been increased marginally, to a very modest extent, even though everybody had said that they would be compensated by an increase for the long, protracted phasing-in period agreed in Copenhagen.
The issues raised by Mrs&#160;Schierhuber are very important: jobs should not only be created, but also preserved.
And in this respect it is very good that the McGuinnes report supports activity diversification.
A comprehensive reform in agricultural policy has been initiated, and as a result agriculture is becoming less able to employ and sustain the population in rural areas.
The strategic guidelines are based on the EU Regulation on the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the text of which was adopted last year.
In it three axes are defined, as well as a Leader Community initiative.
The report in many respects improves on the text submitted by the Commission.
The debate on the report is nevertheless overshadowed by the Council’s terrible proposal for the EU’s financial perspective for the next seven-year term.
As a consequence, we have to wait until this issue is revisited in the finance negotiations between Parliament and the Council, and the situation is corrected as is only right and proper.
It is not just the need for general development of the countryside, but also greater self-sufficiency in energy for the EU, and other challenges, that depend on this. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I congratulate my colleague on this report.
I agree with many of the proposed amendments and with the overall direction, but I have some concerns.
Concerning diversification, not all those leaving farming and/or rural dwellers are entrepreneurs, or interested in being so.
There needs to be provision for helping people into employment and this should be reflected in the guidelines under point 3.3.
We must therefore coordinate these.
It is imperative that the guidelines highlight the need for consultation with those involved at local level in the preparation of the national guidelines and also in the subsequent preparation of rural development programmes.
Lastly, I should like to say to the Commissioner that in Ireland it is hard to take her recommendations on organic farming seriously, when she will not allow us to declare the island a GMO-free zone. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I congratulate Mrs&#160;McGuinness on her excellent report on an extremely important issue.
In recent times, the Union has tended to neglect rural and agricultural problems.
We have often heard, even in this House, that it is not worth spending nearly half of the Union’s budget on helping rural communities and farmers who account for barely 6% of society.
The strategic guidelines now hold out the hope that rural and agricultural problems will receive better treatment in the future.
Without rural development and support for farming there can be no food security, sustainable growth or effective environmental protection.
I am hopeful that the future of rural communities and farming in Europe will be well-served by the document we are debating today, particularly in the new Member States which are in greatest need of support for their rural areas. &#160;&#160; The Strategic Guidelines of the Community for the area of rural development in the 2007–2013 programme period constitute a worthwhile and necessary document.
According to the strategy, rural development should accompany the implementation of a new, market-oriented common agricultural policy, and should support the key role of the market within this policy.
The budget cuts proposed for the CAP in the Financial Perspective, however, are causing justifiable concern over the real benefits of rural development.
Further concern results from the course of negotiations in the WTO, where it appears that European farmers could be put at a disadvantage in their competition against the rest of the world.
There are also risks, however, arising from the restrictive nature of ongoing reforms, as was the case for sugar reform, as well as other reforms that are in the pipeline.
Studies also suggest that there is a risk of the rural economy being weakened because of the transition to single payments per farm, etc.
It goes without saying that the above risks are greatest in the new member countries.
For example, in my country, Slovakia, following the transition to single farm payments, agricultural output is expected to fall by a further 17%.
These are dramatic figures, since we have increased the importation of food by a half over the past two years due to the discriminatory influence of the CAP in the new Member States, and the export-import balance in Slovakia’s agricultural sector trade has deteriorated by one-third.
The worst-off are the most backward, typically rural regions that are falling behind virtually in front of our eyes.
At the same time, all of the EU resolutions have stated that our policies should be working to narrow the gap that the more backward regions are facing.
The problem of the new Member States is therefore that of a deficient rural economy resulting from the uneven effects produced by the role of the market as embodied in the CAP. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs&#160;McGuinness for the excellent work she has done in her report.
The identification of priority actions to be undertaken must not, however, result in an inflexible programming exercise and in a restriction for the Member States.
In that context, moreover, it is important to foster accompanying measures that facilitate innovation, research and development.
Quality must be understood not only as food safety and consumer protection, but also as value added to the competitiveness of businesses and as the expression of local traditions and of the cultural heritage of rural communities.
Lastly, we must welcome the crucial aspect of bringing the experience gained through Leader to the system of local governance, building on the best practices of earlier programming exercises. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, having analysed the report by Mrs&#160;McGuinness, whom I wish to commend for her work, I should like to highlight certain points.
Local conditions must be improved and supported, in particular by strengthening existing knowledge-exchange networks, or setting up new ones, and by improving the living conditions of rural communities.
This would boost relations with the stakeholders on the ground. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on her report and her excellent cooperation.
Personally, I am adamant that the rural economy, SMEs and rural networks should play a real and meaningful role in achieving the Lisbon goals.
In its own right, it must contribute to increased prosperity in rural areas.
In that context, I agree fully with the rapporteur that funding for rural development should not involve robbing the first pillar to pay for the second pillar.
Rural development should stand on its own two feet.
I am happy about the inclusion of my amendment on the necessity to ensure consultation, cooperation and, where appropriate, compensation for farmers when their activities are restricted owing to the enhancement of landscapes and habitats.
Finally, I have one minor quibble with the rapporteur when she says that agriculture must remain central to the economies of rural areas.
That has a life of its own and needs an adequate fund of its own; hence my disappointment at the cut in the budget for rural development. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the European Parliament I represent Poland, which is home to six of the ten poorest regions in the Union.
Five of these regions are located in the eastern Poland.
The additional funds in excess of EUR 800 million earmarked in the 2007-2013 budget for eastern Poland are not a solution to the backwardness of this region.
The support we need must be at least equal to the aid given by the Union to marginal and sparsely-populated regions in the old Member States.
As well as financial assistance, eastern Poland, which includes the poorest Lubelszczyzna region, needs a stable agricultural policy and protection for its farmers.
It is high time that provision was made for its development. &#160;&#160; Mr President, funding for rural development is a key issue.
Nor must we lose sight of the fact that the core and single most important component for the development of rural regions is the maintenance of sustainable agriculture at the very heart of their economies.
The future of the rural economy depends on the success or otherwise of our future policy from 2007 to 2013.
This can be a help, but on its own is no panacea for all the problems facing the rural dweller.
If we are to achieve anything in this, we must be adventurous and innovative; we must encourage the development of more small and medium-sized enterprises and more micro-industries in rural areas.
If a farmer, his son or his daughter has an opportunity or an idea to develop their farm or to diversify, they should be encouraged to do so and to expand and not be forced into the nearest town or village.
The way forward for rural development is one of vision and confidence; above all, we must look to the future! &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner and the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;McGuinness, the report that we are debating today contains the guidelines to be followed by the Member States in drawing up the national strategic plans.
Mr&#160;Castiglione said something very clear: that the actions mentioned in its annex will provide a guide that will allow criteria to be unified, and this unification of criteria is going to promote the harmonious application of the new rural development Regulation, but it is also going to enable each Member State to take its own decisions on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity.
This consideration is necessary in order to curb the processes of erosion and desertification, which lead to the kind of disasters that have been mentioned here this evening, such as forest fires and floods.
Furthermore, this care of the soil will allow us to maintain good agricultural and environmental conditions.
With regard to the need to establish services to maintain the population and to receive new inhabitants, we Spanish socialists agree that this may be the case and, furthermore, we agree that a fair proportion of the Structural Funds should be allocated to these areas in order to guarantee the balance between the development of rural areas and that of urban areas which is so necessary.
It is clear, Commissioner, that good investment in infrastructures would contribute to an improvement in the quality of life of these areas and to countering depopulation.
I live in a rural area, I have been Mayoress in a rural area and I can tell you that nothing could be more necessary or more motivating for the inhabitants of these areas. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work and on her excellent report.
I welcomed and approved, among other things, the emphasis given to young farmers, micro-businesses and crafts.
Indeed, rural development must not ignore the specific characteristics of the various regions, the strategic positions of local actors who set the guidelines for each area or, particularly, the development model for towns, which represent the real driving force of the entire regional economy. &#160;&#160; ( Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the significance of rural development problems in the new Member States.
In Poland, rural areas became a kind of shock-absorber for the economic transformation that took place in the 1990s.
This policy must, however, go hand in hand with rational measures within the context of the common agricultural policy to stabilise traditional farm livelihoods, since only a stable livelihood on farms will enable the latter to make effective use of the support that is available from rural development funds. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, in common with all Members of this House, I agree on the objectives of the new rural development funds and on the need to strengthen the second pillar of the common agricultural policy.
The experience of the ongoing Leader programmes is a salutary lesson in the dangers of an excessively fussy, nit-picking set of guidelines.
I personally wanted to emphasise the need to take territorial cohesion into account.
The quality of life required to sustain an active population in the rural sectors entails cooperation and the joint implementation of essential financial resources.
We await the Commission’s proposals in this regard, and not solely from you, Commissioner. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I must first congratulate Mrs&#160;McGuinness on her outstanding work, and I wish to commend her for her willingness to listen and her openness.
It was also important to reaffirm the importance of rural development policy as the second pillar of the new common agricultural policy.
Nevertheless, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the financial perspective, I am dismayed to note that the sum proposed for funding rural development policy, some EUR&#160;20&#160;billion, represents a sharp drop in relation to the Commission’s proposal.
The solution put forward by the Council to address this significant reduction is the optional supplementary modulation transfer of up to 20% from the first to the second pillar, and this is left entirely to the discretion of the individual Member States.
As with the EAFRD funds and the funds based on mandatory modulation, there must be national cofinancing and compliance with rules on minimum spending per axis and integration with national strategic plans. &#160;&#160; Each region has its own natural features, so every country needs to make its own strategic plan for rural development.
However, the Community’s strategic guidelines should provide some general support and guidance for individual countries in this respect.
The countryside is one of the key factors in preserving the cultural, ethnological and natural heritage through which our lives are enriched.
This demands greater investment in education, a reduction in the bureaucracy involved in new investments and the provision of an appropriate infrastructure.
There is still very poor provision of social security for women, and it is equally unacceptable that mothers employed on farms still do not have the same rights and benefits as women employed in other sectors.
The complete achievement of its goals would not only benefit the development of rural areas, but would also boost the entire economy of the European Community and contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of all citizens.
Efficient rural development programmes not only improve competitiveness and provide a solid support for sustainable development, but also strengthen social cohesion and the healthy development of all social strata.
This particularly applies to new Member States, whose productivity has not caught up yet with that of the old Member States.
The involvement of private capital is indispensable to the execution of programmes and to the consistent implementation of structure change and modernisation.
The creative utilisation of alternative resources and supporting a wide range of training opportunities are also crucial to the implementation of truly equal opportunities between men and women, and, by expanding the labour market, they are crucial to the involvement of as many women as possible in the process of solving rural development tasks.
This involves know-how, new ways of delivering win-win environmental services and the creation of more and better job opportunities.
The diversification of economic activities, the protection of the rural cultural heritage and investment in infrastructure for local services are preconditions for improving the quality of life in rural areas, and help to counter rural depopulation.
It is already obvious today that funding for the third axis, namely that of improving the quality of life in rural areas and the diversification of the rural economy, falls short of what is required.
First of all, regarding the economics, it is quite clear that the outcome of the financial perspectives has not been very encouraging to many of us.
The rural development policy has a role in bridging the digital divide.
It is quite clear that if we enter into this discussion on voluntary modulation, which is not even cofinanced by Member States, that will be the first step towards a re-nationalisation of European agricultural policy, so that farmers in the different Member States will have completely different competitive possibilities.
I have very much enjoyed listening to the debate. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
