EU response to the world financial crisis: follow-up of the informal European Council from 7 November and of the G20 Summit from 15 November 2008 - Commission's legislative and work programme for 2009 (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the EU response to the world financial crisis and the Commission's legislative and work programme for 2009.
Several Member States have already entered into recession, and, in 2009, economic growth could, at best, remain at zero in the European Union.
Public authorities within the Member States are making every effort to ensure continuity in the financing of businesses and households facing the growing risk of credit restrictions.
Europe and its international partners are therefore facing the worst financial crisis since 1929 and they must face up to an economic slowdown on an exceptional scale.
As you know, since our last debate on 8 October, the Council Presidency has pursued only one objective and held only one conviction: the essential unity of Europeans in the face of the global financial crisis.
Faced with the threat of a real breakdown in the European financial system, the French Presidency has succeeded in promoting a European action plan to support, as a matter of urgency, financial institutions threatened by the crisis, and together the Member States have decided to guarantee interbank financing and to recapitalise the banks.
The effectiveness of this joint European action was also demonstrated last weekend at the G20 summit meeting of Heads of State or Government in Washington, attended by President Barroso.
Europe, represented by the President of the Council, President Sarkozy, and by the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, initiated this historic summit.
It demonstrated great unity in giving the Council Presidency, on 7 November, clear positions to defend with our major partners.
We have also achieved positive decisions in line with the European Union's proposals, such as registration of rating agencies, the principle of monitoring or regulating all the activities of financial institutions, and linking remuneration with the avoidance of excessive risk taking.
Nonetheless, they are only one part of the European response to the crisis.
Indeed, this united approach must also inspire the European Union and its Member States to respond to the effects of the crisis on economic growth.
Just as in the financial sector, the Member States will not achieve any concrete results in supporting growth unless they cooperate closely with each other, and, beyond that, with their major international partners.
The G20 summit delivered a strong message in this respect.
Furthermore, while ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market, we should also ensure that all the flexibility of European state aid rules is used so that the Member States and the European Union give effective support to those economic institutions that are most threatened.
Resources, as you know, have already been made available to ensure financing for small and medium-sized enterprises.
The support measures should be part of a more global plan, making it possible, in particular, to support the sectors most at threat, as the entire EU car industry is today.
Several Member States have said that they were considering support measures for certain sectors of industry.
Such measures must be the result of consultation between partners in order to be fully effective and to preserve the integrity of the internal market, and the Ministers for Economic and Financial Affairs, together with Commissioner Almunia, will prepare the European Council discussion on these themes at their next meeting on 2 December.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has shouldered its responsibilities effectively within a few weeks in the face of an unprecedented destabilisation of the world economy.
Europeans have managed to unite in the face of immediate danger in order to take effective and urgent action.
In this way, we - Council, Commission and Parliament - shall prove together that the European Union has the means to effectively take control of its destiny and to do what all Europeans expect, that is, to act as a global player. (Applause) Thank you to the Council's representative, Mr Jean-Pierre Jouyet.
President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to commend the European Parliament's excellent decision to organise two debates in one today: on the European management of the global financial crisis, in the wake of the G20 summit in Washington, and on the Commission's work programme for 2009.
You will therefore not be surprised that the Commission's work programme for 2009 also has a dual purpose: continuity and action in a time of crisis.
Allow me to remind you that the political initiative of starting a global process for reforming the financial system came from Europe, and I think we can congratulate ourselves on that.
The European Union was equal to the challenge.
The guidelines laid down by the extraordinary meeting of the European Council on 7 November, inspired by the joint work of our three institutions, served as a platform for the discussions.
The President of the European Parliament, Mr Pöttering, also took part in these discussions, and we worked out a common position.
I invite all those who are sometimes inclined to criticise to look at the proposals that we, as Europe, have made and at the results of the G20.
That is my feeling.
The Washington summit also laid the foundations for a new global governance based on the principles of a market economy, but an economy as envisaged by Europe is not just a market economy; it is, as we say very often in Europe, a social market economy.
Firstly, not necessarily in terms of importance, but in terms of the order of the decisions, an action plan for the short and medium term to reform the financial markets, to avoid further crises and to protect consumers, savers and investors.
Thirdly, and this is the question that I believe needs to be discussed most urgently, the need for coordinated action to stimulate the global economy and minimise the consequences of the crisis for the jobs and purchasing power of our fellow citizens.
That, moreover, is why we shall endeavour to reach a consensus by the end of 2008 on ways to conclude the Doha Round for trade and development.
At the same time, the summit has sent out a clear signal, which will, I believe, be very important to Europeans.
I even said that, in my opinion, it would be obscene to discuss major issues of global finance and ignore the needs of those who do not have enough to eat or do not have access to clean water. (Applause) A new chapter in politics is now beginning, and we must write it rapidly and in practical terms.
If Europe has played a major role with its proposals to the G20 and if it has made itself heard, it is because it was united.
The European Union now faces a real challenge to continue to speak with one voice.
Sometimes it will be difficult, but it is the condition that is vital for our success.
On 29 October we also outlined an economic recovery programme that we are going to formalise with a document that the Commission is to adopt next week.
Of course, we have already covered much ground over the past few months.
Of course, we are still going to make headway with certain elements by the end of the year, but there will be many things left for us to do next year, too.
This programme contains four priorities on which we were, moreover, broadly in agreement with the views of the European Parliament during the September debate on the annual political strategy for 2009.
The first of these priorities is self-evident: growth and jobs.
In 2009, we will initially strive to achieve two things: limiting the consequences of the economic slowdown on jobs and businesses in Europe, and continuing with our reform so as to be better prepared for the post-crisis period.
I think, in fact, that our citizens would not understand if the governments of the 27 and the European institutions, having been able to agree on a common platform to respond to the financial crisis, were not now capable of working out a common platform to respond to the economic crisis.
The least we can do, therefore, is to accept the principle of coordination between all the Member States and, of course, with the European institutions.
Such is the framework of the recovery plan that the Commission will present on 26 November under the umbrella of the Lisbon Strategy.
We have the instruments in Europe, we have the Lisbon Strategy for growth and employment, we have the Stability and Growth Pact, and we can demonstrate that these instruments, with political will, and especially with European will, can respond to the crisis that we are currently going through.
We need a genuine common strategy to bring together the conditions for an economic recovery, a programme that seeks, above all, to limit the impact of the crisis on citizens - households, workers, entrepreneurs - a programme that uses all available levers - fiscal, structural or regulatory, both at European level and at national level - in a coordinated effort, and on this point also, I want to say how much we have appreciated the cooperation of the European Central Bank up till now.
One of the most interesting results of this summit in Washington is that everyone understood that, with globalisation, even those who had been least exposed to financial market integration now know the effect of interdependence.
If the entire world is ready to accept the effects of interdependence, we in Europe must not only recognise this interdependence, but must also be able to respond in coordinated and consistent ways.
I am thinking above all of the need to adapt certain sectors of our economy to our other goals of combating climate change.
I am also thinking about increased efforts to reduce administrative costs for businesses and thereby unlocking the potential of SMEs in particular, a central feature of our Better Regulation Review in January 2009.
We must reduce all unnecessary administrative burdens, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Social Agenda for opportunities, access and solidarity is also part of the European response to the economic crisis, because there will be social difficulties to be dealt with, we are not denying it, particularly as a result of an increase in the rate of unemployment, which now seems more than likely.
To conclude this first part of the debate, I think that, in spite of their negative effects, crises always have one virtue.
There is now an openness not only among the great powers but also among the emerging powers, towards changing the world and promoting European values: the value of freedom and the value of solidarity.
In the case of Europe, I believe that this is the moment for it to make its mark on the course of events. (Applause) Mr President of the Commission, thank you for your contribution.
I am sure my fellow Members will allow me to observe that, in recent weeks, when you have had to attend a marathon number of sessions, you have always - in my opinion - upheld Community law in a clear manner, as is naturally your duty.
This is very important in relation to our governments.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the current financial crisis does not, as some people have said, constitute the defeat of capitalism but is well and truly the result of a political error, that is, the inadequacy of rules and controls on the quality of financial products in the US since the 1990s.
It is the result of a lack both of market transparency and of an effective financial markets monitoring body.
The centre-right political family is not and never has been in favour of a financial system without rules or arbitrators; we are now paying very dearly for the economic and social consequences of this.
What we, the centre-right, are asking is that, in difficult times, we focus our attention on the situation of people who work and who save, and on that of entrepreneurs, and especially of small and medium-sized enterprises, who take risks every day to create growth and jobs.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to express my Group's great satisfaction that, in this crisis, as in the Georgian crisis this summer, Europe, when it wishes, has a presence in the world, makes itself heard and influences its partners.
What I mean here is that Europe, which supports a model of society that is unique in the world and which puts people at the heart of that model of society, is a major tool in the context of globalisation.
The Council Presidency with Mr Sarkozy, supported by the Commission and its President, Mr Barroso, have shown that there can be a common, consistent approach by the 27 Member States, even on very sensitive and complex matters, and that Europe can have an influence on the world if it tries to stand united.
It is our duty now to take action to stimulate our economy, to stimulate growth and thus to limit the impact of this crisis on social cohesion.
Mr President of the Commission, it is in a time of crisis that we can change some rules, and only during a time of crisis because, after the crisis, everyone forgets very quickly.
I would say to you quite simply that Europe must be united, Europe must be strong, and above all, Mr President of the Commission, that we have felt the symbiotic relationship between the different institutions, Parliament, which I will mention first, the Commission and the Council.
The fact that they have convened in this way indicates that the world is changing, that we are developing into a multipolar world in which the European Union can, and will, play a central role if it stays united, if we do our homework and if we actually perform the task that we have been set.
If we want credibility, we need to discuss the rating agencies now.
We want to discuss short selling now.
We are experiencing a financial crisis and large-scale discussions are taking place but the ladies and gentlemen from the world of finance are already taking up their positions again.
No, what we have to find out is who owns the casino, what rules are used for gambling, how the winners are taxed and, most importantly, whether the procedures in the casino are transparent and whether those who are responsible for what goes on there can also be brought to account.
That must be our goal.
The goal of the EU must be to define its own rules which the EU itself then enforces within the G20 countries and in the international organisations.
We must also be clear in our minds that we have a responsibility towards the ordinary citizens of the European Union whose money is used to pay for the disasters that others have caused.
You are one of the better paid people in Europe, just like I am.
In my opinion this issue is just as important as regulation of the international financial markets.
I expect you to make the relevant proposals here in December. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I should like to congratulate the President of the Commission: this was the first time the Commission has been represented at such a summit and it is, indeed, very welcome.
I would also like to congratulate the President-in-Office, not only on the excellent work that he has done for the French presidency, but also on his reward, at the presidency of the Autorité des marchés financiers.
If 1989 was a decisive victory for the free market economy, then 2008 must be the year in which we remind ourselves of Adam Smith's warning that unbridled free markets have their limits.
Adam Smith, in the Wealth of Nations, foresaw many things, and there are many lessons there for us in what he said.
This time we have recognised that salvation must come collectively.
Many of the measures proposed in the Commission's work programme for 2009 will help us on that road.
Otto Graf Lambsdorff and Jacques Delors and others wrote a letter to the Slovenian presidency very early this year warning of the dangers of the overheating of the world economy.
The recession should be a good time to take stock.
The Presidency Note of 28 October to inform the EU's preparatory summit on 7 November had four innovation points.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (GA) Mr President, Mr President of the Commission and Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I firmly believe that the European Commission has adopted a strong position by acting directly and decisively to deal with the crisis in the international financial markets.
The G20 and the actions of the Commission and in the presidency in bringing forward this G20 meeting - albeit with a lame duck presidency in the United States -is forcing India and China to come to the table and to say that they now have responsibilities as emerging economies.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis is now biting the real economy too, as we might in any case have easily predicted.
We believe that this is the price that the European Union is paying for the delay in constructing or even the refusal to construct a European regulatory system and to establish in good time financial solidarity mechanisms and banking supervision that is worthy of the name.
Those responsible for this delay, and the advocates of this approach, which has placed Europe in a situation of extreme insecurity and recession, include you, Mr Barroso, you and the majority of your Commission.
Regarding the priorities in external affairs, I would particularly like to stress a continuing, reprehensible lack of attention to the issue of human rights, starting, of course, with China.
On internal policies, regarding immigration, once more your Commission has in recent years ceded to the pressure of the Member States, and this is why today, when we talk about legal immigration, in reality we are referring to legislative instruments which remain very weak, and exactly the same can be said with regard to social policy.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, this is certainly not the way to succeed in setting in motion what the Greens have for many months now been calling the Green New Deal, and which today is very much in fashion.
There should be no ambiguity on useless mega-infrastructures or on nuclear power or on windfall funds for projects that are not good ones.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only a few days ago in this very Chamber President Sarkozy told us that the crisis that we are experiencing is structural and that what is needed is a rethink of capitalism itself.
Certainly, it has been discovered that laissez-faire dogma can be falsified and that therefore there can be huge public intervention and even nationalisation, but all this will not change the underlying philosophy that created the structural crisis.
Certainly, it is said that we need rules to reduce the risks of speculation, but there is no idea of intervening with regard to this financial speculation - for instance with a Tobin Tax on transactions - and we are not touching the Stability Pact that, in this time of recession, is likely to dramatically worsen lives in this continent of ours.
However, most of all, we are not asking ourselves what lies at the bottom of this crisis and so we are not succeeding in tackling it.
In 1929 John Maynard Keynes proposed that we should invest in salaries and jobs, but today this is not being done.
The second is the ecological and energy dimension of the crisis, which calls for decisions that are much clearer and starker than the stammering of the G20, but on the other hand it is very difficult for those who created the crisis to resolve it.
This applies even in times of crisis.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Madam President, I shall be very brief, because this has been an extremely fertile debate, but I should like to make five observations before ceding the floor to President Barroso.
As you stressed, and as others have said, including Mrs Frassoni, it would be wrong to focus solely on the financial world and forget the most disadvantaged, the weakest, those who are starving, whom you also mentioned, Mr President.
Lastly, it must be appreciated, and this is my final point, that the crisis should not cause us to slow down or to be faint-hearted but rather to respond more quickly and to remain ambitious in our development objectives and in our environmental aims and our fight against climate change. (Applause) President of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, since we have decided that I should now present the whole work programme for next year, I should like to answer Mr Schulz's specific question before continuing my remarks.
Today the Commission approved its response to the two reports - the Rasmussen report and the Lehne report - and you can see how we intend to monitor the various elements and how we have already initiated such action.
It is a very wide-ranging response and we shall present other proposals, some of which, indeed, we have already presented.
Moving on to the Commission's work programme for 2009, it is, as I have said, inextricably bound up with a specific political context.
This is why we must waste no time in pursuing the efforts that have already been launched to adapt to the globalisation process and to modernise.
What this means specifically for Europe is that we must promote our values and defend our interests in the context of the globalisation process.
It is precisely in this context that we must present ambitious proposals.
The present crisis, however, must not distract us from the other priorities of our work programme, which, in fact, are also priority responses to the challenge of globalisation.
These are priorities for 2009, which assumes special importance as the year of the Copenhagen Conference.
I firmly believe that, by working together, we shall achieve our common goal of a political agreement in December.
I have no wish to exaggerate what is at stake, but we must all be aware that Europe is putting a great deal of its credibility on the line in this debate, in which it is the main driving force.
It was Europe that launched the global debate on the fight against climate change.
For this reason, our response to the economic crisis must demonstrate that programmes to fight against climate change can also be part of an economic response strategy.
In 2009 the Commission will devote itself particularly to the quest for progress in the European area of freedom, security and justice, for example, by establishing the common immigration policy and integrating it into the broadest policies of the European Union, such as its growth, competitiveness and social-inclusion policies, by making the European immigration network operational and finalising the common European asylum system for 2010, by reinforcing compliance with the rules governing consumer protection in Europe, by improving mutual recognition of certain instruments of civil and criminal law, such as judgments and inheritance settlements, and by combating new forms of criminal activity, such as child abuse and cyberattacks.
Our relationships with these countries are also an important factor in the resolution of a number of global issues.
I believe that we are now closer to the right track, for the real alternative to Doha is not the status quo but rather, because of the present financial crisis, the option of turning in on ourselves, the possibility that countries in various parts of the world will take backward steps on tariffs and enact unilateral measures to protect some sectors of their economies.
Lastly, the intense pressure to which the world has been subjected in 2008 has demonstrated how important it is to share a common vision with the United States.
We face some very formidable common challenges, and I believe that more active cooperation between Europe and the United States can make the world a better place.
Ladies and gentlemen, in 2008 Europe has provided evidence of unity in the way it has coordinated its actions in major crises.
Georgia and the financial crisis have made the Union more efficient.
They have opened people's eyes to the merits and the effectiveness of the European dimension as a means of guaranteeing their economic, social and environmental welfare and protecting their interests while reaffirming their values.
For example, there is a far more favourable climate than there was a few months ago for recognition of the importance of our currency, the euro.
I certainly do favour an ambitious outlook, but it must also be realistic, for we have to act with the other institutions and with the Member States, which are all democracies, otherwise they would not be members of the European Union.
The Commission will continue to play its part, to perform its role as a driving force and initiator, but in so doing it will not act against the Member States and Parliament but rather with the European Parliament and with the Member States.
Our role in the European Commission, of course, is to act as a driving force but at the same time to seek consensus with the other institutions.
We are at a very important political juncture for Europe, perhaps even a turning point.
Mr President, you have presented a work programme for the rest of the term of this Parliament and of your Commission, and I would like to say that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will be happy to follow the main principles of this programme.
You have rightly made employment and growth your highest priority.
The response is increasingly linked to the issue of how we should react to the financial crisis.
We support the measures required in connection with the regulation and transparency of the financial markets.
We need extremely specific proposals for reorganising the regulation of the financial markets as quickly as possible.
This represents a broad and important area of activity for the coordination work of the Commission.
While we respect the goal that we also share, this is a significant abuse of the rights of Parliament and its Members, and maybe we will be able to come up with something more ingenious than this unrefined option. (DE) Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, at the end of your speech you said that we must send out a clear signal to the electorate.
However, when I take a look at the programme, the theme often seems to be 'carry on as before'.
This must be made clear and it has not always been the principle followed by the Commission.
I mention this specifically because a crisis has now developed in some countries in connection with the postal service.
This is taking us in the wrong direction.
At the very least, I would have liked to have seen an unambiguous statement at the end of your programme indicating that you will speak up for these public sector services and say how they should be dealt with, both regionally and locally, and that the market does not regulate everything after all.
Finally, I would like to endorse one of your points: we have a new US Government.
Let us take advantage of the opportunity afforded by a new US President. (Applause) Madam President, as regards the world financial crisis and the Commission legislative work programme, in a sense, the latter should be our response to the former.
But perhaps without in any way belittling what confronts us, for 'crisis' we should probably read 'challenges' - challenges to Europe to really step up to the mark and fulfil its role.
Europe is surely the best equipped region of the globe, with our institutions really able to get at these issues and challenges which go beyond national reach, beyond the control of any individual Member State.
We, above all, should be able to respond together through a strong and collective response to give confidence to those whom we represent: Europe's citizens.
Since all Member States will be affected by the crisis and will face the task of counteracting it, slowing it down and mitigating its consequences, all Member States must decide together about the joint action to be taken.
A situation such as the one prevailing today, whereby the EU is divided into Europe A - the euro area countries with the addition of only Great Britain - and Europe B - which consists of the new Member States together with Sweden and Denmark - represents a division of the EU, all the more so now that we are facing a crisis.
The Commission's action plan, put forward 13 days ago, confuses fundamental matters with unimportant ones and with matters which may have been important at one time, but have lost their importance in the face of the economic crisis.
They ought to be reviewed at the next meeting of the Council of Environment Ministers on 4 and 5 November.
There are 44 European regions that have declared themselves GM-free.
Your initiative, Mr Barroso, to create a group of sherpas from the 27 Member States to bypass the Presidency's ad hoc group and to bypass your own Commissioners who are competent in these matters sows confusion and obscurity in an area where it is your responsibility to guarantee the clarity and reliability of procedures.
However, there has never been such concerted action for any human disaster.
A social global economic order must replace the free market economy and the United Nations should play a leading role in this.
The European Union can play a decisive role in shaping this new order, provided that it demonstrates that the recession, as a consequence of the financial crisis, is being combated successfully by united European action.
Have the courage to replace the practically obsolete Stability Pact for Europe with an economic and social pact which obliges all the Member States to coordinate their economic and financial policies with each other.
Once again, social aspects are not given a high enough priority in the legislative and work programme.
The Commission's strategy to support those who are losing their jobs seems to me to be too little, too late, just like the support for small and medium-sized enterprises and investment in research.
Before worrying about creating confidence in the markets, governments and commissions ought to re-establish citizens' confidence in the independence of those who govern them from the influence of off-shore finance. (ES) Madam President, I am not really going to talk about the diagnosis of the financial crisis.
You may say that, in the current situation, nothing more can be done.
In his book on the 1929 crisis, John Kenneth Galbraith wrote, and I quote: 'The singular feature of the great crash of 1929 was that the worst continued to worsen'.
The Washington summit produced an impressive catalogue of commendable intentions.
The return of national governments to the role of market regulators has to be welcomed, but the unfortunate thing is that this often means the return of the self-seeking nation state.
The recession calls for action in a spirit of international solidarity.
The European Union must mobilise all its forces, pool all available national budgetary resources to invest them as a matter of priority in infrastructure for growth and bolster purchasing power.
President-elect Barack Obama is said to have the intention of launching an economic recovery programme costing the equivalent of four per cent of US GDP.
The 27 Member States of the Union, which are collectively less indebted than the United States, should make a similar effort in order to pull Europe and the world out of a financial crisis that threatens to bring distress to everyone. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2009, as we all know, there will be European elections.
Life goes on, and our citizens expect our institutions to respond to their concerns, always with an eye to the future, pursuing long-term objectives and able to initiate immediate action to achieve them.
In this spirit, I wish to emphasise two fundamental areas of action for 2009.
As a result, if I may make a suggestion, the Presidency and the Council should get a move on and strike while the iron is hot so as to ensure that the 27 Member States come up quickly with effective responses to the financial crisis.
I should like to emphasise one of the points that I consider essential and on which we intend to focus sharply, namely the need to ensure that, in 2009, your Commission takes full account of the Structural Funds, which currently make up 36% of our budget and which will enable us to take far more effective action, to engender solidarity between our regions and to avail ourselves of the instruments without which we cannot meet the challenges of our age.
We are counting on you to take action in this domain, Commissioner, particularly in response to our two requests for studies on the housing problem. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, seen from our point of view, this crisis has necessitated a restructuring of our continent's banking landscape, but has not led to the emergence in Europe, to speak plainly, of a group of serious financial operators genuinely able to plan the future framework of the markets.
When he was a senator, President-elect Obama proposed severe measures against tax havens and we may well wonder whether, as a new president, in view of the web of high finance that seems to have controlled movements and, above all, in view of generous multimillionaire funding of the elections, he will have the courage to act on this issue and to convince not only the United States but also Europe and, in particular, Great Britain.
For several months now, European industrial organisations have been mobilising against our European climate and energy strategy.
In the next few weeks we will have the opportunity to bring the trialogue to a conclusion, and then we will be able to assess whether the Commission and the Council have just been faking it today or whether they were serious. (FI) Madam President, Commissioner, the world is suffering from 'Mad Money Disease'.
The value of currency trading in the markets is 125 times the practical value of the money itself.
It is a threat to the credit recession: there is a danger that the debt and bank crisis will become an all-embracing economic crisis, manifesting itself in hunger, unemployment and poor social health.
It presents Europe with a big challenge because most measures of fiscal policy need to be taken at national level, yet the EU has a crucial role of coordination.
Specifically, allowing lower VAT for improvements in the energy efficiency of buildings and launching an information campaign to encourage a change in people's behaviour are two specific ways to help the situation.
As I see it we are at risk of negative growth next year in the European Union as such of -1% - not only -0.3%, but -1%.
Minus one percent next year will correspond to a Growth and Stability Pact of more than -3%.
That is why I simply must appeal to the Commission, Vice-President Wallström, asking you to present one simple scenario showing what would happen if all our major governments were to do what I am saying here, showing that all of them will be better off, not only in jobs, but also in public budgets and also in the Growth and Stability Pact.
If he fails to achieve that, the pound will be like a permanent ping-pong ball, bouncing in an uncontrolled manner between the big footballs of the euro and the dollar. - (SK) As a Slovak MEP I appreciate very much the entry of Slovakia into the euro area.
I recommend that the European Commission should focus directly on citizens and their needs, instead of producing economically worthless forecasts when setting its priorities.
A healthy Union cannot exist without healthy citizens. (ES) Madam President, it is clear that the Commission's work programme for 2009 in the area of foreign policy, as in all other areas, is indissociable from the international financial crisis, as the Commission President, Mr Barroso, has told us.
With regard to the real economy, I heard what President Barroso said, and I was quite surprised.
This being the case, I invite the Commission to adopt the proposals made by my colleague Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, even though it might regard them as populist.
In a recession we must prepare for the time afterwards and for new markets.
We need a green new deal for new jobs and new wealth in a sustainable way.
The ALDE Group will work for an open, green, safe and entrepreneurial Europe, and in these areas we will support the Commission's work programme. (DE) Madam President, Madam Vice-President, today I would like to talk about internal security and the work programme.
However, before I do this I would like to mention another issue.
This shows that the crisis is already hitting the real economy in no uncertain terms and therefore I propose to the Commission that we take a look at one of the responses and investigate the law on subsidies, which we are now abandoning as far as the banks are concerned and that suddenly has no effect any more, and change it in light of the present crisis.
However, the main topic I want to discuss concerns the Commission's work programme and the subject of internal security.
Unfortunately, I have also found nothing on this subject in the work programme for 2009.
However, in my opinion, this is not so clearly reflected in the work programme.
Voices have been heard within the Council to the effect that we should now cut down on environmental investments and our ambitions relating to the environment.
What we need is investment in research and development, new environmental technology and a new infrastructure that is much more environmentally friendly than the infrastructure we have today.
The second is what is happening in the area of the working environment, where we are seeing an increase in the number of accidents throughout the EU, at least in certain Member States, because we are giving this area lower priority.
Well, I hope you will tell them that it is crucial for the future of the European economy that that package is approved by the Council next Friday. (NL) Madam President, I should like to make a preliminary observation.
It is true, as has been said by many people, that Europe should play a greater role on the world stage, but Europe should also speak much more with one voice rather than it being fragmented as it is at the moment.
After all, the leading role in regulation, re-regulation, supervision and the improvement of the financial markets is not the brainchild of Gordon Brown or Nicolas Sarkozy, but the European institutions.
This concerns specific investments, both through the Lisbon Strategy in terms of knowledge and through the Gothenburg Strategy in terms of energy and ecology.
The programme as it stands needs to be finely tuned in a number of areas.
For example, the 2007-2013 regulations can become more flexible.
We can translate the position adopted by Parliament, namely to use funds not yet allocated under the n+1, n+2 and n+3 rules in the current period, as well as possibly funds left over from the previous period, into action.
We would ask the European Commission - and I know that Mrs Hübner is on the case - to draft an amendment package to demonstrate our dynamism to the public before next year's elections.
I believe that the Commission would do well to also work in this area. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the financial crisis, enormous amounts of money are suddenly being freed up, including sums to ease the economic crisis.
The Barroso Commission has achieved a lot with respect to this issue but it also makes it clear to us that it does not consider the subject important for 2009.
There is a risk that the Council will reach a deadlock as the 27 Member States can no longer come to an agreement on the subject of combating fraud.
If we are exercising more freedom for expenditure on the one hand, we must also make sure that the Member States are subject to appropriate obligations.
The social state and social cohesion cannot be at the tail end of open and uncontrolled markets or of the economic policy of Europe, a survival bait that we throw to all those who are foundering in times of crisis.
Secondly, in order to achieve this, we need to urgently adjust the terms of the Stability Pact; we need a new social Maastricht, a sustainable pact for growth, employment and social protection based on strict rules and preconditions.
We need more action and less rhetoric in this.
Brown has called for leaders to avoid putting up barriers to trade and investment during the times of economic crisis.
They have failed to address the burning issues of how to arrest the recession, how to create new jobs and, finally, how to combat climate change without incurring unnecessary economic costs.
European Socialists have long since been calling for a reform of financial markets and for coordinated action by European Union governments.
We must protect our citizens against food, energy and rent price rises so as to maintain their real income levels and thus to protect their purchasing power: the consumer demand which, together with investments and exports, has such a significant impact on economic growth in the European Union.
If the climate and energy package is retained in its present form, especially where the emissions trading scheme and the demands on power plants and heavy industry are concerned, I must warn that in Poland and in other new Member States this will lead to considerable costs and above all a tremendous increase in energy prices.
Fighting climate change is a legitimate objective, but the battle cannot be fought by means which will quickly lead to another crisis, when we have not yet managed to overcome this one. (ES) Madam President, as regards the plans for the fisheries policy, certain proposals that we have been waiting for have been so long coming that what we now need is a fixed work programme allowing us to determine with greater certainty those issues that will come before us in this parliamentary term.
The promised reform of the common organisation of the markets also appears in the communication, but we are again unsure whether this will reach us in the first half of 2009.
There are also other issues, such as the future of European aquaculture or the proposal on discards which appears and disappears like a ghost from the Commission's work programmes, which we believe should also become priority issues, given the importance attributed to them by both the sector and this Parliament.
We therefore hope, Madam President, that an amended work programme for 2009 will be presented as soon as possible, taking into account these repeated requests from the European Parliament. (DE) Madam President, those that are weakest economically are always the ones to suffer the most in times of financial crisis.
However, the task we now face is to put this behind us and to learn political lessons from it.
I notice that in section 3 of your Legislative and Work Programme for 2009, a very important section entitled 'Better regulation - delivery on promises and change of regulatory culture', there is a comment that 'a simpler and better regulatory environment without unnecessary administrative burdens will, therefore, remain a key component of the Commission's legislative work'.
But I have to suffer in this committee, and my invitation is that one of you should come and suffer too - if only briefly - because we may be part of the problem.
But if we could somehow create a new precedent that, ideally, the Commission President would come and address our committee, maybe that would help make our committee help your work, and we could then become part of the solution. (DE) Madam President, I would like to address one issue that until now has not been addressed very often, namely the role of the state.
I would also like to express my support for Mrs Gräßle.
Of course we could not avoid the crisis, but we were not the birthplace of this crisis: it was born in America.
We should avoid over-reacting in Europe.
But it might be good to have some sort of perspective on the events and the developments we are going through, because we have also seen 25 years of unprecedented and unique global economic growth that has made it possible for more than two billion people to leave poverty.
Now we need to see to it that we can restructure and recover the global economy, and I think that the European Union has an important and crucial role to play in that.
We need to make sure that the regulatory framework of the global financial markets catches up with the reality of how the world economy looks today.
An example in the new capital requirements directive is the proposed 5% retention of securitisation proceeds.
The pockets that are being picked are the pockets of working people who are losing their jobs, families who are losing their homes, and those who are poor already and who are losing their savings and pensions.
I think we are aware of the consequences there. (SV) Madam President, Commissioner, I think it is important that, through the G20 summit, the EU and the world have taken action and have said they are willing to continue to act together.
We must not fall into the same sort of crisis we had in the 1930s. - (FR) Madam President, I shall address myself to the Commission because the representative of the Council is no longer here.
These are our production-driven system and our concept of development, which destroy and exploit the planet and its people.
I believe we really must reduce our ecological footprint.
Therefore, we need to be very balanced in this.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, thank you for all these interesting interventions.
Maybe this is another mission impossible to try to collect and respond in a satisfactory way to all Members' different views on the legislative and work programme.
So I might not have the time or the possibility to respond in a fully satisfactory way to all your detailed questions.
By my side you see my colleague responsible also for much of the response, as well as Mr McCreevy behind us here, and they will know better than anyone else that we have had to work on this from the very first moment.
Of course they will be absolutely key to any success in dealing with the financial crisis, so we will deliver, we have already produced a SME business act and of course there is a follow-up, an implementation of the business act.
So if you do not find every proposal in every area in this particular proposal, that does not mean that we have stopped working on it or that we will not come back with detailed proposals, but the balance is absolutely crucial.
Let me finally say that in this Legislative and Work Programme you will see that we have for the first time identified communication priorities and since this is my portfolio I want to underline this and remind you all that we proposed four items to become joint communication priorities for next year: the EP elections of course, energy and climate change, the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall and growth, jobs and solidarity, meaning that the package also covers fighting the financial crisis.
So that will be very important work for us.
The debate is closed.
The vote on motions for resolutions on the Commission's legislative and work programme for 2009 will take place during the December session in Strasbourg.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (PL) The recent Washington summit was basically the start of a process to which national leaders must become committed in order to minimise the impact of the global financial crisis.
What I have in mind is not only a common EU position on many issues, but also specific joint action and practical intervention aimed at mitigating the effects of the financial crisis.
The world has changed dramatically in the last couple of decades.
The decline of a misleading paradigm (which equates free markets with no regulations) has to be seen in conjunction with a rising multipolar economic world in the attempt to forge a new international financial system.
I hope that the new American administration will be forthcoming in this respect, but we at home in Europe have to rise to the momentousness of this period.
in writing. - (HU) Our first task is to restore confidence on the financial markets, in order to prevent a further deepening of the crisis.
There are regions in Europe where even before now life has seemed hopeless.
The financial crisis has engulfed the whole world.
René Thom's catastrophe theory seems to have been validated.
It is the taxpayer, both in Europe and in America, who has to pay for this rapacity and dishonesty.
in writing. - (DE) A particularly welcome feature of the Commission's legislative and work programme are the measures planned to combat the economic crisis in Europe.
Establishing the EU's negotiating position for the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen is not only a high priority as far as environmental issues are concerned, there are also interconnections to other political fields.
The European Union can prove itself to be a pioneering force, not only with respect to the continent of Europe but also in connection with protecting the climate on a global basis.
in writing. - (EL) The credit crunch, this deep crisis in the capitalist system, is the current scourge of workers, exacerbating the problems of unemployment, undermining social insurance and pension systems and further reducing the income and standard of living of working class families.
They support Economic and Monetary Union, the Maastricht Treaty and the four freedoms, the Stability Pact and the reduction in social spending within the framework of financial discipline.
They are calling for stricter supervision of the Member States by the EU and they welcome and are strengthening its socially uncontrolled role in order to support capital more effectively.
