50th anniversary of the Tibetan uprising and dialogue between the Dalai Lama and the Chinese Government (debate) The next item is the oral question to the Commission on the 50th anniversary of the Tibetan uprising and dialogue between the Dalai Lama and the Chinese Government, by Marco Cappato, Marco Pannella and Janusz Onyszkiewicz, on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, and Monica Frassoni and Eva Lichtenberger, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance - B6-0012/2009).
This memorandum has been published and contains their demands.
I therefore ask myself: what is our task as the European Union?
Let me be very clear - we do not see eye to eye with China on Tibet, and we still have a very real and legitimate concern about the human rights situation in Tibet, as you have both just outlined; about the fact that Tibet has remained largely closed for the international media, for diplomats and for humanitarian organisations for almost a year now; and about the stalemate in talks between the representatives of the Dalai Lama and the Chinese authorities, despite the three rounds of talks last year.
We have endeavoured to find common understanding with China on this delicate subject, and we have been very clear whenever we have addressed the situation in Tibet with them.
We have always maintained that there should be a reconciliation dialogue and that the dialogue should go on.
We have always said that this dialogue should address the participation of all Tibetans in decision-making.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, the EU's motto is 'Unity in diversity'.
Minorities wishing to express themselves in any way other than the mainstream Party-sanctioned way are routinely marginalised and persecuted.
In 1950, Communist forces invaded Tibet, leading to the exile of the Dalai Lama 50 years ago.
Pro-China voices on the other side of the House will have their say in this debate, but for too long the people of Tibet have been denied their voice, and we must speak for them.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, the Socialist Group is concerned about the human rights situation in China.
While we recognise that the situation has improved significantly over the last 10 years, there are still many areas where human rights are still not properly or adequately protected.
We are concerned about the plight of the 100 million migrant workers who have moved from country to city and who have the most limited access to health and education.
I, along with Elmar Brok, Philippe Morillon and other Members of this Parliament, had the opportunity last summer to visit Lhasa.
These efforts have been effective only when countries and international organisations have been consistent in their actions and demands.
It is worth remembering that, in its resolution of 6 July 2000, the European Parliament called on Member States to recognise the Tibetan Government in exile if, within the space of three years, no agreement had been reached between the Chinese authorities and the Dalai Lama's administration.
Let us also not forget the Eleventh Panchen Lama, the youngest political prisoner, who has been in Chinese custody for 14 years.
This is not a conflict between equals in terms of either capacity or motives.
China now has the opportunity to show the world its generosity and its desire for peace and harmony and, above all, the European Union has the opportunity to help it act in accordance with its greatness. (DE) Madam President, on 10 March 1959, the Tibetan people were subjected to unspeakable suffering at the hands of the Chinese.
More than 200 Tibetans died, some as a result of deliberate fatal shots, and now - shortly after the 50th anniversary - monasteries are closed to the outside world, access roads are controlled and soldiers and security men stand in readiness to nip demonstrations in the bud.
This idea, which is pure provocation, was topped by the planned forced introduction of a holiday for Tibetans: 28 March is to be Serfs' Emancipation Day.
It is a document for true autonomy within the framework of the Chinese constitution.
We must have an answer to 600 imprisoned Tibetans. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament cannot allow the recent cry of pain from the Dalai Lama to go unheard.
The People's Republic of China and its government should therefore recognise that the discussion of human rights such as the freedom of assembly, the freedom of an independent press, religious freedom and the rights of cultural minorities in Tibet and in other parts of China does not constitute impermissible interference.
However, Mr Ford, we will not allow our attention to be diverted.
At the same time, there is absolutely no freedom of the press for journalists in China.
I understand that the EU is trying to establish good economic relations with China, and we communicated this in our discussions with the Chinese Government and MPs in Beijing within the framework of the IMCO delegation visit in March 2008.
In spite of these obvious issues, in spite of the European Commission's agenda with China and unlike the 27 Member States' much more consistent and balanced agenda with China, I note with regret that we, in the European Parliament, are turning this strategic relationship into an issue and pawn in the political groups' electoral campaign.
Tibet is a reflection of the human rights situation in China, as well as the situation of human rights defenders like Hu Jia, Sakharov Laureate 2008.
Achieving genuine autonomy for Tibet is closely related to realising the message of another date: soon, 20 years of Tiananmen student democracy.
Achieving real democracy in China is key to a solution in Tibet, but time is running short, and much will depend on our own moral determination.
The interventions have underlined that this concern remains as real and legitimate 50 years after the Tibetan uprising of 10 March 1959.
Therefore, we are not interfering in China's internal affairs, but merely trying to defend standards and values which are important to us everywhere - in Europe, Asia and throughout the world.
