The European Parliament and the European officials should take a stand regarding Decree 181 of 1 November 2007 and ask the Italian Parliament for the final form of the law to comply with the letter and spirit of the European Directive. - (PL) Mr President, recently Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, former President of France and the main architect of the Constitutional Treaty that was rejected in the French and Dutch referendums, stated that the EU Reform Treaty adopted in Lisbon was no more than a revised version of the Constitutional Treaty, from which references to the Constitution had deliberately been removed.
The missing names are those of Danuta Teresa Szpila and Alina Maria Bryk.
Ahmed Dogan was the founder of that organisation, for which he was convicted and imprisoned as a terrorist.
Spain has witnessed racist attacks against immigrants in Barcelona and Madrid.
Over those years, Northern Ireland has had many difficulties, as it has over the past 30 years, but during all that time, soccer was able to bring the people together.
Mr President, I would like to raise the issue of Cadbury Schweppes, which has just announced in my own constituency that it is going to close its factory in Keynsham with the loss of 500 jobs and move production to Poland.
Chocolate has been produced in Keynsham for 250 years, and for nearly 100 years by Cadbury Schweppes.
This should not be a border of division, but one of neighbourly cooperation - a border that in future will persist only formally, on paper, when Ukraine becomes integrated into the EU - and let us hope that it will. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak about the situation that has developed in connection with that of the Romanian Roma in Italy.
The time has come to create the comprehensive strategy that we voted for in our decision of April 2005 - this Parliament voted for it - in which we asked the Commission to urge the Member States to create the strategy.
If the 2005 guidelines and Parliamentary decision were not satisfactory for the Commission or for the other Member States, the matter must be taken up again.
While preparations for the European Union summit were taking place in Mafra, in the Russian city of Kazan, 720 kilometres from Moscow, another round in the long-running battle between the authorities and the media was being played out.
Dr Sean Barrett, a senior lecturer in economics at Trinity College Dublin, has today described the reduction of the corporation tax rate in Ireland from 50% in the 1980s to 12½% a decade later as 'the most important policy measure that achieved the transformation of Ireland'.
Commissioner Figeľ is here, so I am sure that he has taken careful note of that. (SK) This coming 17 November is for the Czech and Slovak people as symbolically important as the fall of the Berlin Wall was for the Germans.
Freedom is a great gift, and I am pleased to be able that today as a Member of the European Parliament. (HU) A decisive majority of the European Parliament has rightly been disgusted with events in Italy, but there is extraordinarily great hypocrisy in this, ladies and gentlemen.
What matters here is not retribution, but humanity and justice. - (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about the tragic political situation in Lebanon and the role that the EU is urgently called upon to play.
The case in question was that of the Amalgamated Society of Locomotive Engineers and Firemen versus the UK.
Furthermore, President Saakashvili declared that there would be presidential elections in Georgia in January 2008.
