More than seven weeks have now passed since what is commonly described as Ukraine's Orange Revolution.
First, how far has Ukraine come since the first running of the second round of the elections on 21 November 2004, and what does this mean for the country in the future?
Second, what role has the EU played to assist Ukraine to find a peaceful solution to the crisis?
The International Election Observation Mission, led by the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, found that the re-run of the second round of the presidential elections on 26 December brought Ukraine closer to international standards.
Further efforts will be needed to build on this and to take the democratisation process forward in the years ahead.
The EU has given sustained political support to help the people of Ukraine find a peaceful outcome to the crisis.
The EU also helped to prepare the ground for the political compromise of 8 December 2004, with European mediators, including High Representative Mr Solana, Polish President, Mr Kwasniewski, and the Lithuanian President, Mr Adamkus, playing a very useful facilitating role.
The European Union also made a major contribution, together with the broader international community, to help ensure that the re-run of the second round of the elections would be fair and free.
In concrete terms, the EU sent 587 short-term election observers from the EU Member States for the elections on 26 December.
The European Commission financed the participation of a further 150 short-term observers from the non-EU OSCE (Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe) Member States, as well as voter education activities.
Overall, the EU played a highly significant role in helping secure correct conduct of the elections on 26 December.
Last December, the Council endorsed the EU-Ukraine ENP Action Plan and agreed to forward it to the European Union-Ukraine Cooperation Council 'as soon as developments in Ukraine allowed'.
The Commission is convinced that the European Neighbourhood Policy Action Plan is a sufficiently comprehensive and flexible tool to allow us to respond to the new situation.
The offer the EU makes in the action plan can be modulated to reflect the progress made by the partner.
The EU has repeatedly acknowledged Ukraine's European aspirations and welcomed Ukraine's European choice.
Recent dramatic events in Ukraine have reconfirmed the country's place on the European map.
We have no doubt that these events will enter into history as a milestone, not only for Ukraine but also for the EU's relations with that country.
The European Union and Ukraine have a common interest in further reinforcing their political, economic and cultural ties.
If Ukraine fully respects its commitments, as expressed in the action plan, the Commission is willing to help ensure that the European Neighbourhood Policy results in significantly enhanced relations between the European Union and Ukraine.
It also reflects the special role played by the European Parliament, which was one of the first to react to the victory of democracy in Ukraine.
The time for words is past, and it is now time for action.
Democracy and values that are also shared by us have triumphed in Ukraine, and this calls for a change in the European Union’s approach to the country.
Finally, we should offer Ukraine the prospect of membership.
These measures should act as a strong incentive for continuing and far-reaching political and economic reforms in Ukraine.
This is in our clear interest, and in the interest of the victory of democracy across Eastern Europe.
What has come out of the crisis in Ukraine is a major victory for democracy and freedom in a country which has, over the past decade, always been on the brink of becoming an autocratic state.
The new president’s government should, as its first task, entrench democracy and the rule of law, as well as develop the economy.
I believe we are all agreed that the European Union must, as a matter of urgency, implement the action plan which the European Commission has tabled in the framework of the neighbourhood policy in order to strengthen our ties with Ukraine as much as we can in this context.
Europe is now facing the task of changing political relations with Ukraine, for the country has elected a president who has never concealed his European orientation and aspirations.
In any event, the resolution which Parliament is discussing today goes quite a bit further than what the Commission and Council have been prepared to do so far.
We are now also responsible for the further consolidation of democracy in that country.
I should like to add that what has happened in Ukraine comes at a time when we need to revisit the EU’s policy with regard to all countries in that region, and gives us cause to do so.
It is also important to formulate responses, and to anticipate questions that Ukraine, and also the other countries in that region, will certainly be raising. &#160;&#160; .
It was an important moment for the European Union, because its unanimous action made it possible to achieve a positive outcome, and also because the European Union made most of the efforts in the field of electoral observation, to which my group has, of course, also contributed.
The fact is that, in the streets and in the icy cold, the Ukrainian people have, in the course of a month, chosen the camp in which they are to build their future: the camp of democracy, non-violence and Europe.
Ukraine’s unshakeable desire to join the ranks of democracy will cause a shake-up in our policies, Commissioner.
I agree with Commissioner Potočnik that, essentially, everything proceeded without bloodshed, and that the elections were run according to European standards in organisational and technical terms, although in no way without certain points worthy of comment.
It is undeniably true that every state has a legitimate right to defend its own interests, so that every country has a government which is well disposed towards it.
We must find answers to these questions.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament played a political role in Ukraine.
Once Mr&#160;Yushchenko takes office as the new president, any criticism of him will also be directed at the European Union as the force that helped him to victory.
We have been told that President Yanukovych brought his supporters in from Donbas on buses, almost certainly paid for with state funds, but who paid for Mr&#160;Yushchenko’s supporters to get to Kiev, and on what form of transport?
It is time for us to realise that there is still a long way to go until the political situation in Ukraine is stabilised, and the use of force is still a possibility.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament played an extremely significant role in the set of events now known as the Orange Revolution.
and demonstrated our respect for Ukrainians, who showed enormous courage and determination in defending the values which are shared by people from Ukraine to Portugal and throughout our entire continent.
I should like to make it very clear that the courage shown by Ukrainians during the weeks of the Orange Revolution should now be shown by the European institutions.
Realistically, this House must admit that it is a process that will necessarily last some time.
In comparison with all these elections, it can be said that the elections were well prepared, the atmosphere was calm, they were transparent and monitored by observers for both candidates.
And of course, I also support the proposal made here for Ukraine to become a future member of the European Union, but only if its citizens so wish, of course.
I support the proposal made by the president of our delegation, Mr Saryusz-Wolski, that a committee should be formed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I regret that we are unable to welcome a representative of Mr Solana, whose work in Ukraine has met with success.
There, a people has stirred itself into action and, using peaceful means, forced the holding of free elections.
Those who have seen the young people in Kiev’s tent camps cannot deny that this was accomplished – and was exemplary in showing what can be accomplished – with the persuasive power that peaceful democrats possess, and that this was comparable to the situation in which many of our peoples found themselves in 1989, 1990 and 1991.
Moreover, it has to be clear to us that this happened in order to set in motion a democratic process and, at the same time, to enable Ukraine to decide where it belongs.
In this Europe of ours, of course, balances have to be struck and bridges built in order to prevent new tensions from arising, including with our great neighbours in the East.
I also ask the Commission and the Council to address this issue with less reticence and more imagination. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the proposals put forward by the Commissioner in his introductory speech could lead one to believe that relations between the European Union and Ukraine are following a timetable drawn up for a train journey in the days of steam.
There may well be other stations along the way, but membership should be the terminus.
It is a revolution that did not begin in 1989, but in 1980 in Poland.
In order to support this process, the Ukrainian people and their new government need to make clear declarations and demonstrate their determination and willingness to undergo sacrifices.
We must hold realistic talks and cooperate with the United States, and we must also hold realistic talks with Russia in order to ensure that it views the developing situation in Ukraine as an opportunity and not merely a threat.
In the end, both sides took part in round-table talks and resolved the problem peacefully, with the Supreme Court, the President and other institutions being involved in this process.
Finally, a large country is always a source of uncertainty and a threat to cowards, but a source of interest and opportunity to adventurers.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, yesterday the President of the Commission said that none of us want to have to speak of Europe as being timid and apprehensive.
Yet Ukraine is a powerful country in Eastern Europe, and recent events in this country can easily be compared to another fall of the Berlin Wall, albeit the Berlin Wall in the East.
This country covers an area greater than that of France, and its people vigorously and resolutely called for democratic principles to be applied in practice and not just on paper.
I will be honest and admit that I was amazed to see the European Union react so rapidly, and to see that it was mediators from the European Union, and not from the United States, who played a leading role in the resolution of conflict in Ukraine.
It would appear that the Commissioner, the European Commission and the European Council are regretting their involvement after 21&#160;November, and now wish to withdraw.
Our duty is to continue providing assistance to the Orange Revolution and to democracy in Ukraine, and to open the European Union’s doors to a country that lies entirely within Europe’s geographical boundaries. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is very appropriate to quote the Bible in this debate, for there were glad Christmas tidings from Kiev, announcing the birth of democracy and freedom.
Were it not for the presidential elections in Ukraine being overshadowed by the disastrous floods in Asia, that would have been for me the second-best Christmas in political terms since Prague in 1989.
I was with Parliament’s delegation in the electoral districts to the south of Kiev and can confirm that the election not only ran peacefully, but also in a very correct manner.
We should do everything necessary to ensure that it does. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, it is a pleasure for me to hear the positive references being made to the Bible in this plenary.
In very practical terms, Mr Klich has illustrated this backing in two useful amendments.
Ukraine’s so-called Orange Revolution is as politically significant as the fall of the Berlin Wall or the end of the Soviet Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioners, the events that have taken place in Ukraine over the last few months have clearly shown the democratic world that the Ukrainian people do not want to accept a fate similar to that of other former Soviet States, presided over by authoritarian and semi-authoritarian regimes.
There have been public demands for the right to mobilise the people not only in action against fraud in the presidential elections, but also demands for democracy and the rule of law.
Significant changes in the move towards democratisation have already had an impact on the Supreme Court, security services and media.
The rapid preparation of a plan of action between the European Union and Ukraine is also important and a clear signal must be given at the earliest opportunity to western and eastern Ukraine, the general public and politicians that, if it meets the stringent entry requirements, the road to membership of the European Union will be open to Ukraine.
Ukraine should be given the opportunity to join the European Union. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fine thing to celebrate the triumph of democracy, all the more so because it has triumphed in part thanks to us, the European Parliament, and not to the ever-conservative European Commission.
There is work to be done in Ukraine, in order to ensure that Mr&#160;Yushchenko’s victory is not wasted and becomes a Pyrrhic victory, but we also have our own homework to do here in the EU.
Secondly, support should be given to reforms of the Ukrainian administration and judiciary, as well as to a genuine reform of the local government system.
We should provide assistance and accompany the country on its journey, even when Western television cameras disappear from Ukraine, as they undoubtedly will soon.
Ukrainians must carry out the main bulk of the work for themselves, yet they need to know that we are waiting for them and that we do not want to wait too long. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Ukrainian people’s greatest victory may be considered to be their decision to no longer tolerate the pseudo-democracy that is rife in so many areas formerly ruled by communist dictatorships, and which had almost become an internationally accepted reality.
Therefore, Ukraine’s new course towards real democracy is a choice, a choice in favour of fundamentally different values.
In the words of Russian political analyst Piontovski, it is a choice between the past and the future, between Soviet Ukraine and European Ukraine.
A choice which, according to him, the Russian people will also have to make sooner or later.
It is therefore the duty of the EU to make a long-term commitment to support the reforms in Ukraine and to give the Ukrainian people a European perspective.
I support my colleague Mr Saryusz-Wolski when he says: ‘It is time for deeds, not words!’ &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I was one of the observers who spent Christmas in Kiev, and I am sure I speak for everyone who was there when I say that this political event made it easier for us to spend the festive season in a different way for a change.
For a start, the country has been divided and polarised during the election and we must not make these divisions any deeper.
As we must go on pointing out, we owe this victory for democracy to, above all, the Ukrainian people themselves.
We also owe this victory to Ukraine’s institutions.
For once, Europe said ‘no’ by rejecting rigged elections and fraud on a huge scale.
We must not, indeed cannot, disappoint them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Rehn stated recently in a article that the EU cannot close its doors to future enlargement, which is extended to all European countries with a European vocation and common democratic values.
Given the expectations now raised with Ukraine's people, unless the EU accepts that Ukraine can have some kind of long-term aspiration of EU membership, it will be difficult for President Yushchenko to implement the much-needed political and economic reforms and win the parliamentary elections of 2006.
That breakaway territory of Moldova is a haven for criminal activity, including money laundering and arms smuggling, and poses a serious security problem for the EU after 2007, when our borders will extend to Moldova.
This could be a useful way of showing Brussels that Ukraine really is now independent from Moscow and seriously wants to do business in the international arena. &#160;&#160; – Now that the initially grotesque Soviet-style election farce in Ukraine has been resolved, primarily due to the efforts of the EU, it is time to ask: ‘what next?’ Let us leave aside for the moment the question of whether Ukraine will or will not become a member of the EU.
First, we have to go much further than President Kuchma’s stagnation-period action plan.
Solutions do not just require money, but also thousands of experts from the new EU Member States, which have faced the same problems and have resolved them successfully; their membership of the EU is proof of that.
Russia’s blatant interference in the Ukrainian elections, the growing hostility towards EU institutions, and the unacceptable declaration regarding the EU leaders and officials who resolved the Ukrainian crisis demonstrate that the EU must rethink its policies in this direction. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it can safely be said that the European Parliament proved its worth during the Ukrainian crisis.
If EUR&#160;861&#160;million could be raised for Georgia, then it should be possible to raise an amount many times greater for Ukraine, a country of 48&#160;million&#160;inhabitants.
Finally, preparations must be made for talks on an Association Agreement, as the recent enlargement taught us that this is the right instrument to use in order to achieve stabilisation and open the doors to future membership. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I had the privilege of being part of the European Parliament's election observation mission to Ukraine on polling day.
The celebrations in Independence Square in Kiev on Boxing Day evening, welcoming the rebirth of democracy in Ukraine, were an inspiration.
I welcome the election result as an affirmation of democracy, even if doubts remain over all aspects of the social and economic programme espoused by President Yushchenko.
It would be difficult to say that an action plan is an outdated instrument before we have actually used it and implemented it in any countries.
It is true that, in principle, its approach is the same for all countries.
The recent dramatic events in Ukraine have reconfirmed that country's place on the European map.
We have no doubt that these events will go down in history as a milestone not only for Ukraine but also for the EU's relations with that country. &#160;&#160; The debate on Ukraine is closed.
I have received, at the close of this debate, six motions for resolutions in accordance with Rule&#160;103 of the Rules of Procedure.(1) The vote will take place at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item isthe oral question to the Commission (O-0082/2004 - B6-0137/2004) by Stephen Hughes, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the dismissal of Commission language teachers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on 9 June 2004 the College of the Commission decided to dismiss 43 language teachers with almost immediate effect.
Documents from throughout 2003 and the first half of 2004 show that at a whole series of meetings the teachers were given the impression that everything was fine, it was business as usual.
Six months after the Commission decision their worst fears about not finding work at their age have proved only too real.
Finally, in relation to the trialogue agreement of 1997, the teachers and their representatives had the clearest understanding that they would be employed until retirement in exchange for agreeing new work practices and to work being put out to outside firms as teachers left.
It seems clear that, whether committed to writing or not, such a guarantee was indeed given and that the Commission, having sat silent at the many meetings at which that guarantee has been mentioned since, was quite content to allow everyone to continue with that understanding until it became opportune to go back to that legal opinion.
Since 1997, Commission language courses have been delivered either by internal teachers with direct contracts with the Commission or by language schools selected via an open tender procedure.
Second, the language teachers have been granted generous compensation.
Third, the decision to terminate the contracts in question is not a unilateral initiative by the Commission, but rather the outcome of moves initiated by the budgetary authority in the mid-1990s.
In order to understand the decision of 9 June 2004 one must go back to the origins of this matter.
The first is: did the Commission inform and consult the Council and Parliament before unilaterally breaching the trialogue agreement?
Firstly, the Commission did not breach the trialogue agreement because this agreement did not constitute a commitment on teachers benefiting from lifelong employment.
The Commission informed the teachers' representatives, together with the teachers concerned, at the general assembly held on 18&#160;June 2004, before the decision was notified.
The Commission informed the teachers and their representatives of the decision taken on 9 June 2004, giving the reasons for this and explaining the practical consequences and arrangements, which included the Commission's plans for compensation payments.
Looked at from a legal point of view, then I would reply in the affirmative: the Commission complied in full with all the relevant obligations, even if, as already stated, the Commission could have informed the co-signatories of the trialogue agreement before adopting the decision.
It was no longer tenable to continue a dual system where half of the courses were provided by internal teachers at a cost approximately four times greater than the courses provided by language schools, with no difference in quality.
Thirdly, the Commission accepts that it could have informed the co-signatories of the trialogue agreement before adopting the decision.
The Commission, over which, at the time, Mr Prodi presided, acted without prior warning and without consulting and informing the employees in due time, something that was in flagrant contravention of the 1997 trialogue agreements, which I have here in my hand.
This was an agreement between the institutions, signed by Mr Samland for the European Parliament’s Committee on Budgets, Mr Trumpf on behalf of the Council, and Commissioner Liikanen on behalf of the Commission, which assured the teachers that their contracts would run until they reached pensionable age.
Your intervention has done little to dispel my misgivings as to whether Belgian law, according to which redundancies without agreed financial provision are legally void, has been complied with.
I would ask the Commission to have an independent inquiry into this whole affair, in order, if possible, to conclusively refute the accusations that have been made. &#160;&#160; – I want to begin by thanking the Commissioner for his answers to the questions put by Mr&#160;Hughes on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
The administration must of course be efficient and inexpensive and, in recent years, we in Parliament have exerted considerable pressure to ensure that the Commission implements reforms and that, through these reforms, a more open and transparent system is obtained, which also means a system that is perhaps better in tune with the world around us.
On 30&#160;June last year, the chairman of my group, Mr Wurtz, sent letters to the Presidents of the Commission and Parliament, saying that the brutal decision to dismiss 43 language teachers at the Commission with open-ended contracts was in breach of the commitments undertaken by the Commission, the Council and Parliament in the trialogue of 18&#160;March&#160;1997.
Our group will go straight to the President of the Commission, Mr Barroso, to find out how he will … &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr President, losing one’s job is one of the most traumatic events a person can experience in a lifetime, and I should like to tell the teachers concerned that I understand their position.
The way in which these people were dismissed is reprehensible, and the Commission should apologise for the manner of their dismissal.
It would be fair to ask, however, whether feeling guilty is sufficient reason to overturn a Commission decision.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I too was dissatisfied with the Commission’s reply.
The Commission maintains that it has fulfilled its legal obligations and acted in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, requiring high-quality courses at a reasonable price.
I would also point out that we miss no opportunity in this House to denounce the externalisation or privatisation of services that is undertaken by national or international companies in our Member States.
Our institutions too engage in privatisation and externalisation, but without putting in place the social plans such as we – at least in my own country – impose upon our companies following negotiation with the unions.
In my capacity as Quaestor responsible for language courses in Parliament, I should also like to add that, there too, we are confronted with a similar problem.
I hope that we shall resolve it in a much more socially-responsible manner, respecting the elementary rules of employment law as applied in all our Member States. &#160;&#160; I shall not waste the small amount of time available to me repeating the arguments expressed by other Members with which I fully agree.
With regard to the Committee on Culture and Education, Commissioner, there is a real risk that multilingualism, and quality multilingualism, may be affected by this decision.
So listen to the social arguments and the cultural arguments, Commissioner, and take another look at those documents which have been written for you by your high-level officials. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in an effort to respond to the substantiated accusations and to the questions of parliamentarians and workers, the Commission has put forward as a first argument that it did not breach any agreement on the dismissal of 43 teachers, because the agreement did not contain a clause stating that it would employ the teachers for life.
In other words, it has announced, before plenary in the European Parliament, that the jobs of all the employees in the European Union services are insecure.
The dismissal of 43 language teachers after 15 to 30 years' service constitutes an unacceptable action by the Commission.
In spite of this I think that the status of the dismissed teachers has to be regulated, especially since they had contracts for permanent employment and also in view of their past work and the fact that some of them had worked for the Commission for more than 20 years.
In view of the fact that the contracts were drawn up on the basis of the trilateral agreement, it would seem appropriate to find a solution within such a framework. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have some good advice to give to our new Commissioner, Mr Potočnik, and that is not to read out everything that your officials write down for you.
The second thing I have to say is that what the Commission has done here is inexcusable.
Commissioner Potočnik, we have been in politics long enough to know what it means when, four days before the European elections, you present your partner in the trialogue with a .
I would ask you to sort this matter out, or else we will have an interinstitutional problem on our hands. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, a series of appalling problems, of a professional, human and legal nature, were announced to this House this morning.
This matter should concern all of us and not only with regard to the teachers, but also to what might be happening here in Parliament.
The problem with the language teachers is just one sad example of administrative mistakes in the European Commission.
Remember the case of Mrs Andersen and Mr van Buitenen, the Eurostat, OLAF and Blue Dragon affairs.
If we, as Members of the European Parliament, are charged with overseeing the European Commission, then we must act in these matters.
Secondly, it would be desirable to invite all public servants, whatever their rank, to contact Members of the European Parliament they have elected and give them clear information about administrative shortcomings within the European institutions. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I think the discrimination apparent in these dismissals deserves special attention in Parliament today, particularly after yesterday’s vote on the Constitutional Treaty, Title II of which includes the Charter detailing the rights of us all, of all European citizens.
Therefore, and also in the context of the information that we should be providing over the coming months, I believe that the 43 language teachers who had worked for us for many years should not have been dismissed in such a discriminatory manner, without any justification.
First of all, there are a few reasons why we cannot rehire the teachers, the first of which is financial: such hiring would be incompatible with the Financial Regulation in two aspects, the first of which is procurement and the second is the principle of sound financial management.
This coexistence has always constituted a legal risk.
Experience shows that internal teachers were not particularly flexible vis-à-vis the Commission, despite the advantageous conditions it offered.
The selection procedure was conducted on the basis of financial and technical criteria.
The total savings also took into account the total cost of the language-training programme, each teacher being replaced at retirement age by a contractor employee, and the total cost of the same language-training programme executed exclusively by contractors as from September 2004.
At the beginning there would be many such teachers, but the number would decrease towards the end of that period.
The final point raised concerns the British Council and its work.
According to information provided by the contractors, I can assure you that no previous or present Commissioner is a member of the management board of any of the previous or current contractors.
In 2004 the British Council tendered for English courses, but the contracts were awarded to CLL and Lerian Communications. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have a point of order under Rule 9 and Annex 1 of our Rules of Procedure on a code of conduct for Members.
The code of conduct does not allow us to comment on such outrageous statements, but I would like you, Mr President, to disavow those statements on behalf of this House. &#160;&#160; Of course I disagree with these practices.
In all events, it is a good idea for all of these incidents to be examined and for us to see exactly what happened and if decisions need to be taken from the point of view of the operation of Parliament.
This will happen, have no doubt. &#160;&#160; Mr President, with your permission and having discussed this with Mrs Hassi, who tabled this amendment, and indeed my colleague Mrs Corbey of the PSE Group, I would like colleagues to consider a very brief oral amendment.
I would appreciate colleagues' support for that brief oral amendment, which focuses the amendment on industrialised countries and not the entire world. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I wish to announce that we are withdrawing our signature from this proposal because the European Parliament has once again been used to attack the Italian Government.
I think Parliament should have the courage to make a decision and give an account number, or we will have to act individually. (2) (3) (4) &#160;&#160; We have voted in favour of today’s resolution on climate change.
The large gap between cost and benefit involved in such study must always be borne in mind, however.
Against this backdrop, the role that the EU has been playing in international efforts to combat climate change is cause for satisfaction and should be duly acknowledged.
I therefore voted in favour of this resolution, because I feel that it addresses these concerns. &#160;&#160; .
In this context, all countries must offer to cooperate as broadly as possible and to participate in an effective and appropriate international response, depending on their shared but different responsibilities, and on their individual economic and social capacities.
This process should give priority to the meeting of human needs and the fulfilment of basic human rights.
The debt of countries affected by the tsunami clearly needs an urgent response.
We also called on developed countries to fall quickly into line with the aims of funding development stipulated in the Monterrey Convention and to reach a level of development aid of at least 0.7% of GDP.
All that has to happen is for this information, when necessary, to be immediately communicated to the governments concerned. &#160;&#160; We support the global community’s rapid intervention to deal with the appalling humanitarian disaster in Asia.
The resources must be found within the existing framework for the EU’s total budget.
Above all, the European Union will, however, when the cameras are no longer there, have to respond in the following ways, and on a long-term basis, to the requests of the populations affected. - Engage in reconstruction work, while respecting natural forces.
The resolution is nevertheless right to note that much of the money pledged by EU governments to help rebuild the shattered infrastructure and lives in the Countries hit by the Tsunami is not new money but has largely been taken from other development projects.
We must not ask the people of Africa and other poor countries to bear the cost of our justified humanitarian response to the Tsunami victims.
Consequently, the readiness to help shown by everyone, and in our particular case by the EU as a whole and by each of the 25 Member States, is worthy of praise, but only if the promises of help correspond to effective help.
This time, also very much due to the efforts of its citizens, Europe lived up to what its stature should be.
Whilst we are sad, however, we must also focus on the crucial need to help the people affected, not only in terms of immediate help for the countries concerned, but also in terms of ensuring that long-term mechanisms of cooperation and assistance can be set up, so that disasters of this nature can be prevented from happening again.
Against this backdrop, I feel that it is essential to set up an EU civil rapid reaction corps, in order to enhance the effectiveness of European help in humanitarian crisis situations.
Throughout this nightmare, we must pay particularly careful attention to the children who have been orphaned, not only because they are the ones who suffer the most but also because they are vulnerable to rape and to physical and sexual abuse.
I voted in favour of this resolution because I feel that the EU and its Member States could not turn a blind eye to the human and material loss caused by the appalling and unprecedented tragedy of the terrible seaquake that hit Asia and the Indian Ocean.
Accordingly, as well as expressing their compassion and their grief, the EU and its Member States will in the short term have more than EUR&#160;1&#160;billion at their disposal.
The hypocrisy and the cynicism on both sides of the Atlantic – which has also been demonstrated in the recent case of support for the countries affected by the tsunami in Asia, especially when one compares that support with the money spent on the war – manifests itself in the power to decide who can and cannot have arms, what type of arms they can and cannot have, and who are the democratic organisations and countries.
We have nonetheless chosen to abstain in the vote on the resolution as a whole because it is, in general, aimed at strengthening the EU as a global actor in relation to the United States and the rest of the world. &#160;&#160; The recent EU/US agreement over Airbus / Boeing should do much to improve the climate of trade talks between the two.
I am delighted that the same Parliament which, only a short time ago, let itself be taken in by anti-US rhetoric, is now sending a responsible message by declaring its will to work together to resolve problems around the world and to receive President Bush the next time he visits the Community institutions.
However the willingness of the Paris Club to act in this case begs the question whether debt relief decisions are being made on the basis of need or that of US political imperatives?
It is worth pointing out that the countries in debt have already paid seven times what they owed in 1982 and have, worse still, seen their debt rise fourfold.
In this context, it is important to acknowledge that, in the past, this debt was often the result of objectionable policies, and that in the future the development of these countries depends to a large extent on their own decisions, their own policies and their own level of commitment.
Within these constraints, I feel that the process of public debt relief must be speeded up and stepped up, thereby enabling developing countries to allocate resources to basic services and, in so doing, to achieve the millennium development goals. &#160;&#160; I voted against the resolution on the grounds that it does not even achieve the objectives stated by the Presidency.
Without deluding ourselves that the character and objectives of the international organisations may change, we are calling for the wiping out of the foreign debt of these countries, the demand for and imposition of international economic conditions based on mutual assistance and equality between countries and support for grass-roots interests against the interests of the multinationals.
The first is the capacity of the majority of the Ukrainian people to fight for democracy, for freedom and for a social model that is essentially identical to that of the EU.
Secondly, it is abundantly clear that action by the Community institutions and the European leaders, at both Community and national level, had an important role to play in the outcome of that process, which could otherwise have led to an extremely serious situation.
It is this approach, an integral part of the resolution before us, which led me to vote in favour. &#160;&#160; .
This execution called forth both protests from around the world and a resolution from this House, which Beijing ignored.
In January 2003, we made efforts to prevent the execution of his spiritual leader, Lama Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche, and did likewise in November 2004, when the two-year stay of execution expired.
This trial must be in accordance with the rule of law and monitored by international observers.
In essence, unfortunately, little has changed as regards human rights in China.
Bishop Julius Jia Zhiguo, who belongs to the underground church, was recently arrested.
It is a reminder to us all that, even though this is 2005, some people in our world today still cannot practice their religious beliefs without the threat of violence or, in Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche's case, death.
I also believe this House should strongly support the continuation of the EU embargo on arms sales to the People's Republic of China until such time as the human rights situation has improved and China has taken the vital step of signing the United Nations Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
Further to this, we must continue to exert pressure on China to abolish the death penalty and place an immediate moratorium on capital punishment.
I hope this House can support this resolution. &#160;&#160; The Chinese authorities’ increasing interest in establishing good relations with European governments offers us a good opportunity to tackle the situation of Tibet and to state once again, as we have done before, that it is necessary to find a fair and lasting response to Tibetan demands.
In their dealings with the Chinese authorities, European governments must take very good account of the enormous risks involved in any lifting of the European Union's arms embargo and must deal with the issue of political prisoners and the risk of their being sentenced to death, as in the case we are dealing with of Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche.
Furthermore, it is urgent that we appoint a European Union special representative for Tibet, in order to demonstrate both the importance of the Tibetan issue within the context of European Union-China negotiations and in order to facilitate the path towards a Chinese-Tibetan dialogue to put an end to the repression suffered by the Tibetan population, religion, language and culture for decades. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Tibet has been recognised as part of Chinese territory, against the will of its original people, for a long time.
The death penalty, whether to be carried out immediately or delayed, has been used by the Chinese state as a means of quashing the wishes of a large part of the population of Tibet.
In that model, economic growth is paramount, over and above man and the environment.
In their relations with China, the Commission and Council must not work from the assumption that this is a big country with a fast-growing economy, but that this is a country which refuses to release colonised peoples, puts economic growth above anything else and for the rest also violates human rights.
Only then can we expect results. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of the European Union’s new Member States are well aware of what is meant by human rights violations, as such violations are still fresh in our memories.
The situation in Europe today has improved tremendously, although the fact that Mrs&#160;Estimirova and Mr&#160;Kovalev are present in this Chamber now indicates that much still remains for us to do in Europe in this respect.
This cannot be taken to mean, however, that China is entitled to declare Tibet part of China, as Tibet is most certainly not part of China.
This House is to adopt a position on this issue today, and we must call on the Government of the People’s Republic of China to enter into an ongoing dialogue with the Tibetan people and to respect the rights of minorities.
We are also calling on our institutions to maintain the arms trade embargo against the People’s Republic of China, and not to lift it.
We must therefore call for our institutions to apply these sanctions, as well as for dialogue to take place between China and the whole of Chinese society, above all the Tibetan people and their representative, the Dalai Lama.
We would like the President of Parliament to forward this resolution to the European Council, the European Commission, the UN Secretary-General and all those who can bring any influence to bear on China to encourage the country to start respecting human rights.
Instead, we must always be alert to the poverty and misfortune of people the world over. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Chinese have a proverb to the effect that one should throw away one’s watch before beginning to negotiate.
We Europeans must back up our words with deeds and try to exert pressure to enforce the observance of human rights, even when the state violating them is a large one and an important trading partner, such as Russia in its dealings with Chechnya, and China where Tibet and freedom of religion are concerned.
Only if we do will Europe’s human rights policy remain credible in the future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, speaking on behalf of my group, I would like again to make it clear that, at the beginning of this twenty-first century, our Constitution is an unequivocal expression of the importance to us of the rule of law and of the rights of citizens.
They matter to everyone throughout the world, and so our group emphatically reiterates its demand for the rule of law, and our demand that the Chinese Government promptly commute the death sentence passed on Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche, and not only the sentence passed on him, but also the sentences passed on all those others in China upon whom the death penalty has been imposed.
On behalf of my group, I also demand that capital punishment be done away with, including in China, for it is unworthy of a civilised people. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, despite the sign of hope we have been given today in the case of Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche, we must continue to demand that the case against him be reopened and conducted according to the principles of the rule of law.
Now that we have passed our resolution on the Constitution, we in this House must continue to defend human rights and endangered minorities throughout the world, supporting their efforts and protecting them against arbitrary repression.
It has, in particular, urged the Chinese authorities to preserve the cultural, religious and linguistic identity of the Tibetan people.
These issues have also been systematically dealt with in the context of the EU-China bilateral dialogue on human rights.
During this dialogue, the EU has regularly brought to the attention of the Chinese authorities, at every session, and most recently in Beijing on 24 September 2004, the situation of individuals who have been sentenced for having expressed their opinion or their beliefs.
The case of Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche is one such case.
It takes the view that the application of the death penalty to Tenzin Deleg Rinpoche would send out a very negative signal and would have an adverse impact on relations with China.
We have also stressed the need to comply, in the fight against terrorism, with the basic principles governing international relations and safeguarding human rights. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place this afternoon, following the debates. . – The next item is the debate on seven motions for a resolution on torture in Iran(2). &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, politics in general and bilateral relations in particular often make compromise necessary.
I therefore accept the fact that, in some way, and even though the parties do not admit it, a deal has been done, one that involves, on the one hand, Iran’s compliance with the IAEA’s (International Atomic Energy Agency) demands on nuclear matters and, on the other, the resumption of negotiations on the partnership and cooperation agreement with the EU, as happened in January.
Even the UN General Assembly, when it met on 20 December last year, denounced the deteriorating situation in Iran as regards the freedoms of speech, opinion and the media, as well as the arbitrary arrests without charges or court proceedings.
Quite apart from that, it is unacceptable that death sentences should still be being carried out, particularly on juveniles and the mentally handicapped, and there is still no confirmation that execution by stoning is now a thing of the past and will not be revived.
Let us then send out a clear message that we will not allow Iran to continue with such a policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, not only internally is the EU in a process of constant development, but its cooperation and contacts in matters of foreign policy are also becoming ever more extensive.
This is an area in which many delegations from this House are active, and these contacts have enabled us to achieve a great deal.
The treatment of journalists also leaves much to be desired, and the situation must be improved as a matter of urgency.
What is going on in Iran must be carefully investigated and examined, and so there are two points on which I cannot endorse this resolution, and in respect of which I will be moving an oral amendment.
We must clearly express what we think joint cooperation means and stick to our principles, whilst also accepting that Iran has its own structures and must itself decide in what way it is to change, difficult though this may often be for us to understand.
The only way for us to change anything is not to pass up the chance of a new start. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, even though Iran is one of the largest countries on earth, it still has a government whose actions we view with concern.
What shows how much contempt a government can have for its own people is the relevant article – no. 119 – from the former Iranian penal code, according to which the stones used at a stoning must not be so large that the condemned person dies from the impact of one or two of them, nor so small that they cannot be described as stones.
I am very glad that the letter sent by the President of this Parliament, Josep Borrell, to the Iranian ambassador has helped to get a stoning, due to be carried out at the end of last year, delayed and the sentence commuted.
Let us continue to exert this sort of pressure, for only in that way will we, in the eyes of the world, do justice to our own objectives. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since this House’s last debate on this subject, in October of last year, there has been some discernible progress, but also a number of reverses.
I am relieved to learn that the United Kingdom, Germany and France have managed to press on with the negotiations on the atomic energy programme.
In this process the European Commission is a partner in negotiation and dialogue, and so it is to them, in the first instance, that I appeal that human rights should not be treated as a secondary issue, but put centre stage in exactly the same way as economic relations with Iran or the issue of how to prevent it acquiring nuclear weapons.
Let me once again appeal, as a matter of urgency, to the Iranian authorities to do something more than make announcements and instead cancel the stonings, give women real rights in practice, and offer more than lip-service to what this dialogue is about.
We are also very concerned about the accusations levelled at the Nobel Peace Prize winner Shirin Ebadi.
Although my group will be voting in favour of the resolution, we will be asking for item 9 to be deleted, as this debate is not the place for it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union and Iran have returned to the negotiating table in order to resume talks on a joint trade and cooperation agreement.
This resolution presses home the point that there has been no improvement in the human rights situation in Iran.
The work of human rights activists and journalists has become even more difficult and even more hazardous; the Nobel Prize winner Shirin Ebadi has again been summoned before a court.
Six pregnant women have been executed this year alone.
This is a fascist regime that has made a farce of democracy and has consigned human rights to the dustbin.
Last month, Maryam Rajavi, the charismatic leader of the Iranian opposition movement, came here to the European Parliament in Strasbourg and told us that the solution in confronting this challenge is neither appeasement nor a military invasion.
It is high time for the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs to reconsider the list of terrorist organisations and in doing so, help to end the violation of human rights in Iran.
That is vital in order to achieve a democratic constitutional state in Iran. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Iranian regime is responsible for many violations of human rights in Iran, and we believe that the soft policy adopted by some EU governments has been a great failure.
When we maintain diplomatic relations with this regime, and especially when the Council labels the main opposition as terrorists, we are encouraging the regime to carry on its violations of human rights more than before.
This is, frankly, a very soft resolution.
However, we support it and, in particular, the paragraph on a review of the terrorist list by the Public Affairs Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee. &#160;&#160; Mr President, our debate today coincides with resumption in Brussels of negotiations between the European Union and Iran on the conclusion of a trading and cooperation agreement, alongside talks about political dialogue and combating terrorism.
This is a particularly positive development in the continuing Paris agreement of November 2004 between France, Germany and Great Britain, on behalf of the European Union, and Iran on the moratorium on uranium enrichment and control of Iranian activities in the nuclear sector.
These developments confirm the international credibility and the huge political potential of the European Union when it acts as one to resolve important international problems through dialogue and political means.
Bearing in mind the negative experience in Iraq and in the face of the unilateral philosophy of the United States, the European Union is in a position to formulate its own alternative proposal on international problems, in close cooperation with the UN and its competent agencies.
The ΕU is Iran's first trading partner, a fact which proves the importance of reinforcing Euro-Iranian relations as a tool in the European strategy for the democratisation of Iran, for respect of its international obligations and for reversing its internalisation and isolation.
We must continue to be constant supporters of human rights in Iran, of cooperation with civil society and of dialogue at all levels.
Within this framework, the European Parliament must take specific initiatives. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I am speaking on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party.
We therefore all agree on pressing the Iranian authorities to comply with international conventions on the freedom of the press, on the outlawing of torture, and on respect for the rights of children, women and minorities.
We all hope that Iran, a country with plenty of potential and in great cultural turmoil, can become a fully operative economic and political partner as soon as possible.
The recommendations that the European Council made in December, which are in line with this approach, therefore need to be put into practice very soon. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the last person to speak in this debate and before giving way to the Commissioner, I would like to say that my views coincide with those of many speakers, in particular those of the spokesman for my group, Mr Casaca.
That is why the European Union has decided unanimously to co-sponsor the resolution on the situation of human rights in Iran adopted at the United Nations General Assembly of November 2004.
At the same time, the resolution recalls the announcement of a ban on torture by the head of the Iranian judiciary in April 2004 and the subsequent passing of related legislation by the Iranian Parliament in May 2004.
The European Union is committed to pursuing the human rights dialogue initiated in December 2002, which remains an important channel for dialogue, not only with influential representatives of the judiciary, but also with Iranian civil society.
I would also like to highlight the visits undertaken by a number of United Nations special rapporteurs to Iran since our human rights dialogue opened.
That is quite remarkable in a country which previously had remained closed to United Nations visits for 16 years.
Finally, I would like to recall that following the positive developments on the nuclear front, the European Union is currently in the process of resuming talks with the Iranian Government on trade, investment and economic issues.
These talks will provide an opportunity to highlight once again to our Iranian partners that all the relevant issues – political, nuclear, trade and human rights – are mutually inter-linked.
The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the trafficking of women and children in Cambodia(3). &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
We must act with resolution.
The protection of women and children in Cambodia against abuse begins here, with us, in our Member States.
Asian women are well aware of their dignity.
The actions of our Member States must above all have regard for the values held by these women and ensure that their cultures are respected. &#160;&#160; Mr President, through this resolution we are condemning the crime of people trafficking and the sexual exploitation of minors, and also the fact that the people responsible for these crimes so often go unpunished.
On the initiative of the AFESIP organisation, 84 of them were freed and were transferred to that organisation’s refuge.
This process involves threats and often violence against the activists who carry out this work.
The Socialist Group’s appeal is addressed to the governments of our countries, to tackle sexual tourism and strengthen the fight against the mafias operating within it.
We should urge them, in their relations with those countries, to become involved in combating this type of activity, amongst other things by supporting the organisations involved in rescuing and rehabilitating the victims. &#160;&#160; Mr President, trafficking and sexual exploitation is, in effect, modern-day slavery.
Those figures have increased dramatically since the 1990s.
NGOs need increased funding and assistance, not only for these areas, but also to rehabilitate victims.
The EU must continue targeting development aid to the poverty-stricken areas of Cambodia so that young women who escape have an actual alternative and are not lured back into the trade through desperation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are all agreed that trafficking in women and children is a crime; this case in Cambodia is, alas, but one among many, and there are a great many such cases around the world that are not known about.
We therefore hope that the debate in this House will prompt others to bring these crimes more to light and to the attention of the world, and to combat them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the fact that the Cambodian Government, or any other government for that matter, takes inadequate action against the trafficking and abuse of women and children is wholly unacceptable.
In addition, it is of the utmost importance for support to be given to those NGOs and people who are involved in the fight against the abuse of women and children.
Nevertheless, it has rightly been said that none of this can be a reason to tolerate or accept what is currently happening there, and before our very eyes.
There is, on the one hand, the Cambodian Government itself, which must, at long last, ratify and implement the relevant UN Convention and the relevant agreement on the combating, firstly of trafficking in human beings, and secondly of organised crime.
By way of contrast, a person without a conscience or moral principles may cause much greater harm by insulting the dignity of human beings and making it impossible to live in the fullness of humanity.
We have witnessed both moral and spiritual destruction for many years in the countries of Southern Asia and in Cambodia, the country we are debating today.
This destruction can be seen particularly clearly in the treatment of women and young children, who are forced into prostitution, taken away to work in warehouses, factories or on rubber plantations or sold for profit.
According to such estimates and the UN’s reports, in Cambodia it is particularly difficult to combat the trade in women and children or their sexual exploitation, as both the police and the authorities are corrupt and accept large bribes from rich and depraved tourists.
Over 60% of women and young girls are forced into prostitution, and the majority of them are either infected with HIV or suffering from AIDS.
The Commission fully shares the concerns of the Members of the European Parliament about the existence and the extent of human trafficking in Cambodian citizens.
It is particularly revolting that the perpetrators of this evil crime focus their attention on the poorest of the poor in one of the least-developed countries of south-east Asia, where the high level of poverty and the limited capacity of the national agencies, as well as local corruption and collusion, make it easier for them to operate.
The Commission’s cooperation activities in Cambodia are directed ultimately at reducing poverty but are also designed to reflect the EU’s commitment to human rights and democracy, including equal treatment for men and women and the protection of children.
More specifically, under the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights, the Commission has already committed almost EUR 1.9 million to UNICEF and Action by Churches Together/DanChurchAid in support of two large programmes to secure legal protection for children in Cambodia, as well as funds to support the development of local human rights NGOs.
Furthermore, in the Commission’s programming document for the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights for 2005 and 2006 for Campaign 2, called 'Fostering a culture of human rights', for which Cambodia is eligible, it is planned to address the issue of trafficking in children and women.
The campaign will also promote the rights of human rights defenders.
The Royal Government of Cambodia has recently taken a number of positive initiatives to address the problem, including the signature of memoranda of understanding with Thailand on trafficking in women and children and on the management of migrant labour between the two countries, participation in the Coordinated Mekong Ministerial Initiative against Trafficking and the establishment of a Department of Anti-Human Trafficking in the Ministry of Interior in 2002.
I very much welcome these important initiatives and I have no doubt that these initiatives will also be welcomed by the Members of this Parliament.
The Member State embassies in Phnom Penh and the EC Delegation joined other donors in a further statement to welcome this announcement and to express the hope that the conclusions of the inquiry would be credible and transparent.
I can assure you that the EC Delegation to the Kingdom of Cambodia, in collaboration with the Member States' missions in the country, will follow closely the progress of the government inquiry and will continue to report on developments. &#160;&#160; Mr President, please accept my apologies, but I had already said at the beginning of this debate on human rights that two prominent human rights activists, Mr Kovalev from Russia and Mrs Estemirova from Chechnya were here today to receive our group’s Robert Schuman Medal.
Commissioner, I can still recall how, one Thursday afternoon, this House declared its support for human rights in Slovenia and for that country’s freedom.
Today, we have a Slovene Commissioner, and I hope that we in this House will live to see, one day, freedom, human rights and independence for Chechnya and Russia. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
