That is something the Commission should be getting on with now. (PL) Madam President, the Commission's priorities for 2009 are increased employment, climate change and a sustainable Europe.
Nine years later, in 2006, in the enlarged European Union, 64.3% of people of working age were in employment.
Over the last year, 24 of the Member States recorded a drop in unemployment and three reported an increase.
The present reduced G4 and G6 working groups are often seen as meetings of the representatives of large countries that are imposing, or that want to impose, their will on other members.
I am sorry about that. (PL) I voted in favour of the resolution on International Financial Reporting Standards.
in writing. - (SV) The motion for a resolution contains a number of vague points.
in writing. - (PL) The European Parliament resolution on the Annual Policy Strategy 2009 referred positively to many points contained in the European Commission document.
I agree that 2009 will be a watershed year for the functioning of the European institutions.
in writing - (DA) The Socialist Group in the European Parliament has decided to vote against the amendment proposed by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance concerning the unconditional abolition of the target of 10% biofuel by 2020.
We will not make compromises in connection with sustainability, either in social or environmental terms, and we therefore insist that fulfilment of the 10% target remains an obligation, and that this can be done in a sustainable way.
I voted for Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 4 submitted by the Socialist Group for the proposal of a Joint Resolution regarding the Annual Policy Strategy of the Commission for 2009.
in writing. - (PL) 2008 is the year of ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, which is to come into force in 2009.
in writing. - (PT) Let us remember that, alongside the debate on the Community budget for 2009, there is another debate on reviewing the entire EU budget, as provided for in the Interinstitutional Agreement.
in writing. - (PL) Madam President, the budget for 2009 must take into account the special circumstances affecting next year.
in writing. - I welcome the content of Ms Haug's report on the 2009 Budget, Section III - Commission: budgetary framework and priorities for 2009.
I voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - Although I will vote in favour of this joint motion for a resolution, I have to say it is a typical European Parliament resolution brought about not for a concern for the environment or maritime safety but because Conservative Spanish politicians are still desperately trying to reclaim Gibraltar and embarrass their own government.
In English it appears badly written and paragraph 12 makes no sense and is a practical impossibility, which is why this paragraph cannot be taken seriously even if you understand it.
These are important issues, but they are of such importance that they must not be decided by the European Parliament but by the competent decision-makers in the Member States.
in writing. - (PT) Despite the careful drafting of the present resolution, it is difficult to disguise the underlying desire for a Global Biregional Partnership and for the European - Latin American Zone of Global Interregional Partnership to be the embryo of a future free trade zone (with the free circulation of goods, services and capital), allowing the EU to promote Latin American integration in its own image and respond to the ambitions of its major financial and economic groups (see the objectives of the Association Agreements between the EU and the countries and regions of Latin America, such as Mexico and Chile).
in writing. - We regret that the text on reproductive health, which was part of the GUE resolution, was deleted in the compromise proposal of all political groups.
in writing. - Cooperation in this area requires a dialogue that promotes, among others, social cohesion and cooperation in fighting global warming.
The need for a more in-depth dialogue in these areas is reflected in my vote.
in writing. - I welcome this opportunity that is given to us by the EU-Latin America Summit to have a discussion on the situation in Latin America and, indeed, the relationship that the EU has with this part of the world.
We know that difficulties exist for countries of that region, and we in the European Union must be active in helping them to overcome their problems, in particular in regard to drugs and crime, and in cementing democratic principles in their governments and institutions.
in writing. - British Conservatives have voted in favour of this resolution today but wish to make clear that the reference they have reservations about - universal support for the Rome Statute and the ICC and the reference to 'the fight against the death penalty' in paragraph 11 of the resolution - deals with an issue which is a matter of conscience for each individual Conservative MEP.
in writing. - The situation in Burma demands a unified and clear position from the EU.
in writing. - (PT) The reduction in biodiversity is one of the greatest challenges facing society today and is becoming even more worrying in the context of climate change.
in writing. - (IT) The report by Miroslav Ouzký on the 'European strategy on biological diversity (COP 9) and prevention of biotechnological risks (COP-MOP 4)' calls into question the protection of biological diversity and the fair distribution of the benefits resulting from the use of such resources.
I therefore voted against the report.
The present reduced G4 and G6 working groups are often seen as meetings of the representatives of large countries that are imposing, or that want to impose, their own ideas on other members.
There should be a clearer division of developing countries that takes into account factors such as economic strength, economic development, GDP growth and growth in exports.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting for Mrs Muscardini's report on a reform of the World Trade Organisation.
A reform of the multilateral trade system and, in particular, the work of the World Trade Organisation, has been needed for some time, especially in view of the current size of the Organisation which now has 151 members.
in writing. - (PT) A veritable 'manual' for Free Trade Agreements (FTAs)...
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish social democrats have chosen to vote in favour of this report.
We also chose to vote against Amendments 2 and 3.
in writing. - The PPE-DE welcomes the report on the Green Paper on market-based instruments for environment and related policy purposes.
The PPE-DE would also emphasise that the concept is incompatible with the continued development of an efficient EU emissions trading system.
The PPE-DE would further stress that while a separate vote was not requested on paragraph 42 of the report our opposition based on these same principles extends to the notion of an EU-wide kerosene tax and NOx emission charges.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of Anne Ferreira's report on the Green Paper on market-based instruments for environmental and related policy purposes because I agree that the use of these instruments is essential for the pursuit of feasible and effective environmental policies.
in writing. - (PT) I support Anne Ferreira's report because I believe that the use of market-based instruments such as taxation, subsidies and emissions trading, for environmental policy purposes are important tools, although not the only ones, for the promotion of sustainable development.
in writing. - (SV) Environmental issues are one of the most important fields for EU cooperation.
There are many examples, and all of them are wrong.
It is in competition between countries and companies to find effective solutions to environmental problems that creativity can flourish, not by bureaucratising our existence.
We have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - (PT) This report carries on a European Commission initiative and establishes a series of European Parliament guidelines for the creation of market-based instruments for environmental and related policy purposes, a prospect that we view with the most serious reservations and concerns.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting against this report because the proposed instruments smack of the planned economy rather than the market economy.
in writing. - (PT) Since January 2005, EU publicly traded companies have been obliged to use international accounting standards for their consolidated financial statements.
SMEs also need proper attention, and less is known as to their treatment than for large companies.
