Situation in Pakistan following the assassination of Benazir Bhutto (debate) (FR) The next item is the Council and the Commission statements on the situation in Pakistan following the assassination of Benazir Bhutto.
President-in-Office. - (SL) The assassination of the former Prime Minister and main opposition leader, Benazir Bhutto, aggravated the already complicated situation prior to the elections in Pakistan.
In addition, it had a negative effect on the process of gradual transition to a more democratic system in Pakistan.
Ever since the introduction of a state of emergency on 3 November last year, The European Union and the European Parliament have emphasised the need for stability and appealed for reconciliation and the reintroduction of democracy.
In addition, all the parties must accept the decision of the Electoral Commission that the election of 18 February should be carried out with dignity and restraint.
All this would contribute to a democratic and transparent electoral process under appropriate security conditions.
Hardly a week passes without a major terrorist attack, and some 700 Pakistanis have been killed by suicide bombers over the past six months.
You will recall that the country was placed under emergency rule on 3 November.
This, of course, greatly undermined confidence in the democratic process in advance of parliamentary elections.
Emergency rule was then lifted on 15 December, but only after new media restrictions had been imposed and most of the senior judiciary replaced.
The outpouring of anger following the murder of Mrs Bhutto led to civil unrest and ultimately the decision to postpone elections from 8 January to 18 February.
I think Pakistan has to move ahead, and the way forward is to organise democratic and transparent elections which result in a broad and also a credible popular mandate for new governments, both at the federal but also at the provincial level.
Let me add that Scotland Yard is doing a commendable job in trying to help in this respect.
President Musharraf spoke of the need for national reconciliation when he addressed the nation on 2 January.
Because these elections are so important, not only for Pakistan but also for the region, I decided to deploy an election observation mission (EOM) with the aim of contributing to democracy and stability in the country.
If the elections had really been held on 8 January as originally planned, we could only have fielded a limited observation mission.
I understand that both EU Heads of Mission in Islamabad and the election observation mission on the ground have already outlined the key improvements that are necessary.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Madam President, once again, following the debate and the resolution that we adopted in December, we are discussing the situation in Pakistan in Parliament.
In her memory and the memory of others who have died in this election period, I believe it is beholden on all of us - Europeans and Pakistanis from President Musharraf downwards - to do everything we can to assist Pakistan.
As 27 strong democratic nations, we need to work collectively to support the economic, social and political developments in Pakistan.
Again, I agree with the Council: the release of all remaining political detainees will be crucial to this process, as will ensuring free, fair, transparent and safe elections on 18 February 2008 and a safe and satisfactory run-up to that date.
In addition to what the Commissioner said, I think the election will mean that we need to have 90 million voters with proper access to news coverage of all sides of the debate.
All of these will be crucial factors in whether or not the elections can be counted as a true record of the will of the people and whether or not Pakistan can start to emerge from the long shadow cast by that assassin's bullet on 27 December 2007.
It is true that she is - she was - only human, and as such was not perfect.
At that time, I put this question to Asma Jahangir, a Pakistani human rights activist, who is now entrusted with a special mission on behalf of the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
I do not believe that reconciliation is possible in Pakistan unless this matter is clarified by an impartial investigation.
We are talking about a country that has 165 million inhabitants, is in possession of nuclear weapons and is engaged in a fight against terrorist organisations such as Al Qaeda and the Taliban.
Naturally, it is of the utmost importance that political stability is achieved in Pakistan as soon as possible and that President Musharraf plays a major role in this at this time.
By declaring a state of emergency on 3 November, Mr Musharraf also revealed a rather casual attitude to democracy.
In addition, worryingly, fingers had already been pointed at him after the first attack on Benazir Bhutto on 18 October.
Pakistan's experience of democracy in the past 60 years has been troubled.
India, as a strategic ally, is the best hope for progress, prosperity, peace and stability in South Asia.
The Pakistani people have not elected General Musharraf as President.
A transparent international investigation into the assassination of Mrs Bhutto, the full restoration of freedom of the press and free and fair elections in Pakistan are also an essential issue for the European Union.
Together with other brave women like Asma Jehangir from Pakistan and Dr Shrin Ebadi from Iran, she created an organisation to encourage Muslim women around the world to stand up for the rights that the Koran gives women, according to Benazir Bhutto, but that had been denied for centuries.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have to ensure that Benazir Bhutto's legacy is not just a mandate to her son, but to us all and to the international community to ensure that the conditions for democracy are established in Pakistan and that we help to establish them.
And the way in which this attack on Benazir Bhutto was dealt with is truly alarming.
Now, however, we should ask President Musharraf to carry out a purge and we should ask the United States, which has very close relations with those secret services, to clarify those relations to us, because if Osama bin Laden is still alive, it would be thanks to those services, unless he has already been killed.
What is more, I would like to remind you that Benazir Bhutto spoke of this in an interview for Al Jazeera on 2 November 2007, and also named bin Laden's assassin, Omar Sheikh, whom President Musharraf in his latest book claims was a former agent of the British MI6.
Mr President, firstly, I should like to give condolences to the family and friends of Benazir Bhutto.
However, if this observation mission is to have credibility, it needs to indicate now to the Pakistani authorities the benchmarks the election observation mission will be using to judge whether the forthcoming elections are free and fair, and this includes an all-party participation in the review of the electoral rules and procedures and an impartial system of conducting elections and verifying election results that is totally transparent.
Mr President, the target of the assassins was not simply Benazir Bhutto, but all of those who are committed to the principle of democracy.
I have real concerns regarding the way in which what actually happens in this House is being distorted by some sections of Pakistan's media in their reporting, particularly the news channel GEO.
Consequently I would ask for a very special observation mission, and I ask that we do not declare these elections to be democratic when we cannot check this. (RO) Benazir Bhutto repeats the tragic destiny of her family, started by her father, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
Let me remind you that 25 European Member States currently have civilian or military representatives in Afghanistan.
Regrettably, Pakistan, over the last 50 or so years, has had troubled periods of military dictatorship and repression of religious minorities and ethnic minorities.
President-in-Office. - (SL) I will be brief.
I know that some will always argue that stability and democracy are somehow incompatible in Pakistan.
Let me say I think that, without a return to democratic governance and the consolidation of fully accountable civilian institutions, there cannot be enduring stability in the country and the extremists will be the main beneficiaries.
Even though there was this terrible tragic death of Benazir Bhutto and of many other victims, I continue to believe that Pakistan has a chance to make real progress towards stability and a more inclusive form of democracy by electing a new government which enjoys broader popular legitimacy.
It will be a very specific one and it will be a good opportunity for you to tell President Musharraf yourself what you think.
I would like to know whether I have been included in the list, or how ladies should go about it here.
Your protest is noted, Mr Van Orden.
