My country, Romania, can apply for more than EUR 20 billion for regional development by 2013.
What is even more worrying is that every year more than 400 000 European children become overweight.
Mr President, with regard to the upcoming referendum in Ireland on the Reform Treaty, I would like to put into context the importance of this from an economic point of view, because the Reform Treaty, if nothing else, is about making the European Union more efficient in its decision-making capacity, which in itself will lead to greater economic success and greater growth.
Average salaries in Ireland are EUR 44 000 per year, and over EUR 3 billion are taken by the Government in corporation tax.
That is why we are all seeking a 'yes' vote for the referendum in Ireland. (PT) When unemployment in Portugal has risen to one of the highest levels in the last 20 years, affecting women and young people in particular, yet another multinational is exerting pressure on workers to rescind their contracts of employment.
The company concerned is Yasaki Saltano, which wishes to abandon cable production in Serzedo, Gaia.
This multinational employed over 6 000 workers in its factories in Ovar and Serzedo, for which it received millions of euros in Community aid.
This project poses a dual challenge to the energy security of the European Union.
On 21 and 22 January, groups of Ukrainian citizens blocked the access of cars to the Siret-Porubnoe border post, between Romania and the Ukraine, because of their discontentment with the requirement to pay for a visa for entering Romanian territory, whereas Romanian nationals no longer require a visa to go to the Ukraine as of 1 January 2008.
This, however, is all you would expect from someone who spoke in favour of the Soviet invasion of Hungary. (PT) I would like to take this opportunity to speak in the plenary to denounce the unacceptable situation of Kader Şahin, a young Turkish Communist Party activist who has been detained by decision of the Turkish authorities since January 2007, with no grounds being given for the charges against her, or for holding her in preventive custody awaiting trial.
Kader Şahin was arrested when a press conference denouncing the repression of Turkish political prisoners in December 2000 was violently disrupted by Turkish police.
Bearing in mind that another hearing on her case is scheduled for 5 February, we express our dismay at this situation and call upon the Turkish authorities to release her immediately and drop the unfounded allegations against her.
Mr President, Alexander Litvinenko testified to the Mitrokhin Commission in Italy and made to me personally the allegation that Romano Prodi was an agent of some kind of the KGB.
Mr Litvinenko was soon murdered.
He has been detained for the last 13 months on trumped-up charges, without trial and denied access to the outside world.
Mario Scaramella is a political prisoner.
We will be contacting Leonard Orban, the Romanian Commissioner responsible for multilingualism in the European Commission, about these issues very soon, because we are convinced that Romania must follow the democratic practice of the European Parliament with regard to its language laws.
Mr President, I wish to raise an issue in relation to the Convention on the Adoption of Children.
This was adopted by the Council of Europe in 1967.
The text of the new convention was agreed in 2007 by the legal experts.
Russia wants to reform the European Union by paralysing our foreign policy and by squeezing us in an energy vice between the North Stream and the South Stream.
We in the European Parliament must condemn the harassment of the British Council. (RO) The free movement of goods is one of the cornerstones of the European Union.
I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the situation of this fundamental principle in Romania.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the concept of European citizenship and equal rights for all European nationals will only be fully realised when all the Member States transpose and comply with the rights defined in the Treaty.
Unfortunately, woefully few Member States have invested 3% of their GDP in research.
I call upon the European Commission to prepare a strategy and an action plan enabling all European citizens to benefit from the results of research.
I would like to thank the officials of the European Commission as well as the Czech experts for their responsible approach to this matter.
Mr President, I wanted to raise the issue of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), a disease which by 2020 will be the third largest cause of death worldwide.
COPD killed 2.7 million people in 2000.
I urge colleagues to sign Written Declaration 0102/2007. (HU) Mr President, I am speaking in my mother tongue, Hungarian.
Mr President, I am asking you to help secure the release of 45-year-old Antonio Ramón Díaz Sánchez, who was sentenced to 27 years in jail in 2003.
Antonio, whose family we have been supporting, and whom I have symbolically adopted along with my fellow Members Peter Šťastný and Milan Gaľa, is seriously ill and urgently needs help: without it he will succumb to his illness in prison. (HU) Thank you very much, Mr President.
