Financial Instrument for the Environment (LIFE+) (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Marie Anne Isler Béguin, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, concerning the Financial Instrument for the Environment (LIFE +) (PE-CONS 3611/2007 - C6 0105/2007 -.
rapporteur. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of a particularly long journey, and, in order to conclude this conciliation on the financial instrument for the environment (Life+), I should like first of all to thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs: Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines, Mrs Ries and Mrs Lienemann.
Thus, by integrating, for example, the management of Natura 2000, we should have increased the Life+ budget by EUR 21 billion.
I therefore believe that we have done some very good work, Madam President, and, once again, I am grateful to everyone, to the Council and to the Commission, for having been able to conclude this conciliation, and for having done so, I might add, along the lines proposed by Parliament, for the good of our fellow citizens, because we are here to represent our fellow citizens.
Madam President, first of all, on behalf of Commissioner Dimas I would like to express my sincere appreciation to Parliament's delegation which took part in the conciliation meeting with the Council on 27 March.
In particular I would like to thank Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, who led Parliament's delegation, and the rapporteur, Mrs Isler Béguin.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Isler Béguin, who has used a great deal of her energy, skill and talent to secure this very positive decision today.
Finally, I should like to conclude, Commissioner, with a wish, and that is that the Commission honours the commitment that it made to our rapporteur and properly takes stock of all the appropriations that have been harnessed for Natura 2000, so crucial is it for this major fight for biodiversity to be supported locally because, in many cases, on the ground, people are still doubtful or are not always aware of what is at stake.
It was crucial to increase this funding for Natura 2000.
At EU level, the figures also very much speak for themselves: Natura 2000 consists of more than 25 000 sites; it is a network that is present in 16 capitals and that covers nearly 20% of the terrestrial area of the EU-27.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, as I take the floor on behalf of the Union for the Europe of the Nations Group in the debate on the LIFE+ instrument, I should like to highlight the following issues.
Thirdly, it is right to point out also that Parliament's stance was taken into account and funding for implementation of the instrument was increased by EUR 40 million.
As I conclude, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur and all those who contributed so effectively to the conciliation procedure. (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating all those who took part in the conciliation process on LIFE + and reached an agreement that we consider very positive, insofar as Parliament has managed to secure a significant increase of EUR 40 million in relation to the Council common position.
The Council, in its common position, had proposed to provide only 40%, which is clearly inadequate in view of the requirements for funding the Nature 2000 network and the implementation of the Habitats Directive. (PL) Madam President, I should like to thank Mrs Isler Béguin for the report on the Financial Instrument for the Environment (LIFE+).
We have not achieved everything that we thought we would through the conciliation procedure, but we have managed to get an increase of EUR 40 million, and have also managed to secure the retention of a system of central administration, for the Member States wanted to administer 80 % of the funds themselves, but we have ensured that the policy for this will continue, in future, to be Community-based.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 22 May.
