Over the past 15 years we have made two attempts to reconcile the conflicting interests of airports and airlines in this area.
I consider it a good compromise that whether or not revenues from an airport's commercial activities may be taken into account is left to the discretion of the Member State in question.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, I welcome the report of my colleague, Ulrich Stockmann, and I thank him for his hard work on this difficult dossier.
I hope now that we can agree this directive at its second-reading stage.
This should help us deliver a directive that will put an end to secret meetings setting charges for airports in a monopolistic or dominant trading position.
However, from the moment the document was first discussed, the European Parliament has considered very carefully the Commission's proposals and wishes to control more than 150 of the Community's airports.
I would also like to wish the European Commission success, as it now has the difficult task of implementing and monitoring the effectiveness of this directive, and would like to wish all representatives every success.
I hope that in two years' time, when this directive enters into force, it will no longer be possible in the European Union to have a repetition of such legally incomprehensible court decisions as the one recently handed down by a Lithuanian regional court against a Latvian aviation company and its main airport.
Any other consideration is secondary or unimportant.
I believe that the new criteria are correct.
The Council accepted Parliament's proposal to limit the scope to airports with more than 5 million passengers annually and the largest airport in each Member State.
However, in the other direction, this difference disappears and the passenger is treated to EUR 15 extra in charges per journey.
If he travels to Heathrow with BMI and returns with Lufthansa, he now pays EUR 70 in charges.
The public has a right to know how such airports are raising and spending their money.
I hope that, when the Commission reviews the directive, it will look carefully at whether regional airports like Newcastle are suffering from market distortion. (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by congratulating Mr Stockmann on his openness and readiness to compromise during the preparation of this excellent report, which will directly apply to airports with over five million passengers and, in particular, to the airports of Faro and Lisbon in my country.
Madam President, with this new directive, future airport charges levied at our airports, and even in outermost regions such as the one that I come from, will guarantee universal access for all to air transport.
But I think, also, it is a good deal for Europe's passengers and, of course, airports are nothing without the citizens, the passengers.
And, to Fiona Hall, I am not sure that Newcastle is in direct competition with London.
I think all the original concerns that we wanted to address have been covered and, as a package, it does provide the balance - in the interests of airlines and in the interests of passengers - that we were looking for, whilst allowing the airports sufficient freedom to operate in a competitive environment.
It is a long shot, but you never know - and it is worth working for. (PL) Madam President, I would like to start by voicing my thanks to Ulrich Stockmann, our rapporteur.
The regulations will oblige airports with more than five million passengers to make their fees transparent and to justify their costs.
In short, in two years' time, we will have a consolidated system for levying these charges throughout the European Union.
I would like to thank him publicly once again for his work and cooperation with the Commission in finding a successful compromise solution which, as far as I can see, has been appreciated by all those who have taken the floor.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 23 October.
