Programming implementation of the 10th European Development Fund (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Carlotti, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on the implementation of the programming of the 10th European Development Fund.
Here too, the EU and the Member States have made a commitment: an additional EUR 2 billion in aid for trade between now and 2010.
However, it seems that this EUR 2 billion has melted away and that the Commission is already planning to finance EPAs from integrated regional programmes.
It must clarify its intentions on this subject, because EDF funds, as far as we are concerned, should not be used as a reward for signing an EPA.
member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank and congratulate you for this excellent report, which has given me an opportunity to express myself to you on points of mutual interest.
I would also like to say that I am pleased with the similarities between the viewpoints of our institutions, as exemplified by this report.
I am also delighted to inform you that, for the first time in the EDF's history and so since European cooperation began, the Commission has been able to commit all remaining balances from previous EDFs at 31 January 2007, without a single euro being lost due to the sunset clause imposed by Member States on the 9th EDF, as the report asks.
When we are designing all our development policies, we must define wellbeing within the framework of sustainable development.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, Mrs Carlotti, I would first of all like to congratulate you for the excellent work carried out in drafting this report, which was expertly done.
During negotiations on the 10th EDF, the EU Member States have agreed on the importance of the Fund and the need to further encourage the development of the ACP countries along with increasing the Fund by EUR 10 billion compared with the 9th EDF.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, programming implementation of the 10th European Development Fund in the period 2008-2013 is of considerable humanist and political significance.
The aim of these programmes is to eliminate poverty and bring about social stability in partner countries and regions in the context of lasting development, especially in Africa.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, I would first of all like to congratulate Mrs Carlotti on this excellent report and say that when we are talking about the implementation of the agenda, we need to look at each country case by case, the real costs that they have to bear and their management.
Finally, even though we know that the general financial aid that is allocated to ACP countries is primarily focused on strategies to eradicate poverty, it would not be superfluous to ensure that the final objective of the EFD was the same. (PL) Madam President, the implementation of the 10th European Development Fund in the period from 2008 to 2013 falls at a time of exceptionally important challenges for the European and world development agenda.
In my view, the rapporteur, Mrs Carlotti, has made a splendid job of this task; she has properly captured and summarised the most important aims and the difficult issues that will be a challenge in the implementation of the European Development Fund.
The 10th European Development Fund envisages the disbursement of almost EUR 23 billion intended for cooperation with the poorest countries of the world.
We must therefore ensure that the executive regulation does in fact concentrate on the implementation of this aim, giving it priority over the other social aims.
Secondly, in order to increase the cohesion, transparency and efficiency of European development cooperation, the EDF should be included in the EU budget.
The question of including the EDF in the budget should be discussed during a review of the financial perspective.
I am aware that some Member States are afraid of this solution, but from the viewpoint of the Committee on Development, and probably that of the European Parliament as a whole, there is no doubt that this would be beneficial for European development policy. (SK) Ladies and gentlemen, meeting the President of the Pan-African Parliament, Mrs Gertrude Mongella, in the European Parliament made a very powerful impression on me.
During the meeting in the European Parliament, Mrs Gertrude Mongella said the following: 'Europe plays an important role in Africa.
I would just like to say that, for agriculture and rural development, the 9th EDF was EUR 650 million and the 10th EDF is EUR 1 billion 250 million.
I would like to restate my belief that the budgetisation of the European Development Fund would without a doubt allow us to be much more efficient, to have democratic scrutiny, to have involvement in and ownership of this development policy, as we do with other policies.
However, I would like to go back to two points.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) The 10th EDF provides a long-term framework for cooperation and development of the EU with ACP countries.
