Tribute During the night of 26 and 27 September 2002, a Senegalese vessel, Le Joola, carrying more than 1 000 people, sank near the Senegalese-Gambian coast.
Now, nearly two weeks later, 476 bodies have been recovered from the sea and 500 remain missing.
On behalf of Parliament, I wrote to express our sincere condolences to President Wade of Senegal and to invite him to convey our condolences to the families of the victims.
I ask you to observe one minute's silence. (The House rose and observed a minute's silence) Last Sunday, 6 October 2002, his Royal Highness Prince Claus von Amsburg, husband of Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands, died in Amsterdam after a long illness.
Prince Claus committed himself to Dutch society with strength, seriousness, dedication and, when appropriate, with humour.
The Danish Presidency, represented by Mr Haarder, Minister for European Affairs, has expressed its willingness to make a statement on behalf of the Council on the situation regarding Iraq.
I want on behalf of Parliament to thank the Council and personally to thank Mr Haarder for doing so.
In this House we are determined to use our best endeavours to ensure that insofar as we can make a contribution, this House will contribute to the removal of any remaining obstacles between now and the Copenhagen Summit in December.
It is the first time in millennia in our old continent that, by the free wills of free and sovereign people, we will be coming together neither forced at the point of a sword nor through the barrel of a gun nor any other oppressive force but by the use of reason, conviction and shared values.
Today's debate is an important staging-post in this exercise.
I would like in particular to pay a tribute to the European Commission and its services and to all of those in leadership positions and in the public services of accession states who have engaged in such extraordinary work of transformation.
When I took office, I made a commitment - before this very House - to make enlargement the top priority of my Commission, to make my Commission the Commission of enlargement, because in enlarging the European Union we will be consolidating an area of peace, security and democracy throughout the European continent.
Bearing in mind the progress achieved by these countries, the track record in implementing their commitments, and taking into account their preparatory work in progress and foreseen, the Commission considers that these countries will have fulfilled the economic and acquis criteria and will be ready for membership from the beginning of 2004.
The Commission will do everything necessary to ensure that this objective can be achieved.
Through constitutional reform and a series of legislative packages, Turkey has made considerable progress as regards the Copenhagen criteria.
Our common destiny is once again to build a common future, a future built on the fundamental values we share of peace, democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and the protection of minorities.
In 1993, the Copenhagen European Council offered the countries of Central and Eastern Europe the chance to join the European Union.
Since then, these countries have gone through a huge process of change, moving peacefully from dictatorship to stable, participatory democracy.
We have endeavoured to address these problems through a EUR 250 million support programme.
This does not mean that nothing has been done in these fields.
On the contrary, a great deal has been achieved already and the operation is almost complete in some countries.
We shall publish a final evaluation six months before the date of accession.
In this regard, the Commission hopes that the Brussels European Council of 24 and 25 October will take the necessary decisions on the chapters still open, namely agriculture, financial issues and institutions.
In this way, we can negotiate and conclude these chapters before Copenhagen.
As regards Bulgaria and Romania, the Commission will put forward proposals for an enhanced pre-accession strategy in good time for adoption by the Copenhagen Council.
I hope that the achievement of the historic objective of unifying our continent will not be jeopardised by this vote.
However, we should also - and above all - be telling the public about the benefits of enlargement, which are stability in Europe, unification of an artificially divided continent and the creation of the biggest single market in the world.
The situation was exactly the same in 1985, when the accession negotiations with Spain and Portugal were concluded.
As regards the costs of enlargement, we know that they are sustainable until 2006 because they are included in the Berlin financial perspective.
Enlargement is the culmination of the process of European integration: the process that has given us half a century of peace and prosperity must be extended to the whole continent.
From this broader and more accurate perspective, the cost of enlargement is very slight compared with the cost of non-enlargement.
In the coming months, we need to conduct a realistic and positive information campaign.
Moreover, it will be a test of our commitment to our principles, for accession will force us to change as well as bringing big changes for the new Member countries.
The institutional reforms that come out of it will have to be just as courageous and farsighted as our endeavours have been.
It must be understood that, without radical, intelligent reform of the institutions, the success of enlargement could turn out to be unsustainable.
Indeed, the new Europe needs a clear, stable geographical shape and institutional framework that all our citizens can understand.
We are inviting the new countries to join our Union because we want peace and stability across the whole continent.
We must keep this in mind when building new relations with our neighbours after enlargement.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's recommendation by the Commission that the negotiations on accession should be concluded with ten candidates by the end of this year is perhaps the most important staging-post on the road towards the completion of what is currently the major project on the European Union's agenda.
There is only one justification for our recommendation today - the ten countries have earned it!
The ten countries have succeeded, through their own efforts, in meeting the incredibly difficult and challenging criteria for accession to the European Union.
What we did see as our task was to provide you, the Members of the European Parliament, the Council and the Member States, with neutral and objective information showing which countries are ready and prepared for accession and the conditions under which this will take place.
However, the key point here is that we have not identified a single problem which could not be solved by the end of 2003.
Of course, the issues which have still to be resolved must be put into the context of what has already been achieved, and if we look at what has been achieved in the accession countries over the last ten years in the transformation process and the preparations for accession, I must say that the progress made by the people in these countries is a truly magnificent and historic achievement which deserves our greatest respect.
The Commission has developed a methodology which allows us to determine, as precisely as possible, where we are and what has still to be done.
The Commission has also made a number of proposals concerning the ongoing monitoring of the commitments undertaken and the introduction of a safeguard clause in the Accession Treaty.
First of all, I must point out that our recommendation naturally contains something of a prognostic element.
This assessment is not based on a feeling or mood; it is based on sound knowledge of the pace and quality of the preparation process in these countries.
I also think it is necessary in terms of the public debate in our Member States.
If the timeframe is to be adhered to, we need to reach an agreement in Brussels on the financial package and institutional issues.
Finally, let me say a few words about Bulgaria and Romania.
I am gratified by the progress made by these two countries.
They said that they wanted to be part of the process in 2007, and all the commitments which they have undertaken during the negotiations relate to 2007, not 2004.
The current enlargement process will not be complete until Bulgaria and Romania also have Members representing them in this House. (Applause) Finally, let me comment briefly on Turkey as well.
This is why Turkey must be encouraged to continue along this road, and the Commission will put forward suitable proposals to ensure that Turkey can continue along this road and the door remains open for Turkey.
It is very gratifying indeed that it has been possible to push ahead with the Commission's progress report to such an extent that it has appeared a month earlier than last year's, and it is also gratifying that we now have a complete basis for making decisions as to which countries are ready to conclude the enlargement negotiations.
To begin with, I should like to thank the President of the Commission and Commissioner Verheugen for the commitment and the energy they have shown right from the start in carrying out this historic task.
The recommendation to conclude the negotiations with ten countries is to be debated at the Brussels European Council in 14 days' time, and discussions regarding the final decision are to take place at the Copenhagen European Council in two months' time.
According to the Commission, Bulgaria and Romania have made good progress since the last reports, but are still not so far forward that the negotiations can be concluded.
The Commission notes that Turkey has made great progress towards fulfilling the Copenhagen criteria.
In the run-up to the Brussels European Council, we must not now pre-empt the decisions to be made in Copenhagen.
The Commission calls upon all the parties involved, and Turkey in particular, to take active steps to bring about a solution before the conclusion of Cyprus's negotiations for accession to the EU.
The conclusions from the Helsinki European Council still form the point of departure for adopting a position on the issue of Cyprus's accession.
Finally, I want to endorse what the President of the Commission and Commissioner Verheugen have said about the Irish vote, and I want to concur with the words of the President of the Commission about the risks and costs of not enlarging the EU, for the risks and costs of non-enlargement are much greater.
That is why the train is now travelling on towards peace, democracy and prosperity throughout our continent.
I would like to voice my warm thanks to all concerned for their great work. (Applause) We are in broad agreement with the conclusions and also with the listing of the ten countries recommended for accession by the Commission, but there is a massive amount of work ahead of us.
The accession countries - as has been stated, and for which we express our great respect - after 50 years of communism, communist mismanagement, communist tyranny and dictatorship, have made massive efforts, and this deserves the greatest credit and our greatest respect.
However, there is still a massive amount of work to be done, not only by the accession candidates but also by the European Union itself.
We hope that Bulgaria and Romania, which are not part of this enlargement round, will continue to make progress so that we can close negotiations with these two countries within a foreseeable timeframe as well.
On behalf of our group, I would like to point out that we have divergent views on the issue of Turkish membership of the European Union.
However, we are united in our view that Turkey is a key strategic partner for us, and that we must always maintain our links with that country in a close and well-functioning partnership.
There is the problem with Kaliningrad, and I recommend, as a matter of urgency, that in overcoming this difficult problem, we prioritise the issue of security, and also Lithuania's sovereignty, which we must not call into question.
This is a great day for Europe, for we have a shared and, it is to be hoped, a good future ahead for our European continent. (Applause) Mr President, the Socialist Group supports the Commission's proposals which have been outlined today.
When President Prodi launched the new fast-track method of negotiation, it radically changed the enlargement negotiations.
He has also been a model of transparency and openness.
It is about admitting countries to a political and economic system which has brought peace, stability and prosperity to countries which spent much of modern history trying to destroy each other.
We have it in our power to reunite Europe and to create a genuinely Europe-wide Union dedicated to building stability and prosperity, not only for its own citizens, but also beyond its borders.
Some say they are in favour of enlargement but not yet.
Enlargement is a dynamic process which itself will drive forward the process of reform within the EU.
There can be no question of admitting countries that cannot or will not enforce the aquis in this area, particularly in relation to state aids, competition policy and respect for intellectual property.
I welcome in particular the economic safeguards in relation to the internal market which we have never had before, and also the commitment to have a further progress report six months before the date of accession.
If there are problems then, we and the Council must have the courage of our convictions to act effectively in those circumstances.
There are, of course, serious issues to be addressed in relation to agriculture.
Money must be spent before accession to strengthen structures in the rural areas and to avoid a rural exodus and mass unemployment.
The agricultural sector and the interests of the rural population are important to both the EU and the candidate countries.
Therefore, we strongly support the proposals Commissioner Fischler made in January because they are fully compatible with the Berlin Agreements and the roadmap for enlargement.
It is worth reminding ourselves of the 13 long years this process has taken as the siren voices of the sceptics seek to dash enlargement on the rocks.
We, therefore, welcome the Commission's conclusion that the ten applicant states will be ready to join the European Union by 2004, but that monitoring of their preparations will continue.
I therefore call on the Commission to transmit to Parliament all the regular enlargement reports which it will make to Council.
If we await the comprehensive monitoring report six months before enlargement, the Commission may have no alternative but to impose safeguards since the nuclear option of suspending enlargement may not be viable.
This means a generous financial settlement which precludes them becoming net contributors in the short term.
By introducing a secession clause in a new constitutional treaty, we would also assuage any fears that to join the European Union is to throw away the keys to freedom.
My own country struggled to meet the criteria 15 months before accession.
Thirty years later, some might say that it is still struggling.
The Liberal Group welcomes the date of 2007 along with a roadmap for Bulgaria and Romania.
The recent reforms undertaken by the Turkish Government represent a real breakthrough and, while no date can be set for Turkey's accession until the political criteria are met, we will watch with interest the implementation of these reforms.
Turkey must be offered a pre-accession strategy accompanied by more financial support and a friendlier political environment.
To you, and to many of my fellow Members here present, it is all or nothing.
Transposal under pressure will solve nothing in the long run.
And why are we not publicly reminding Member States which refuse the necessary financial solidarity that, over ten years, they, together with these countries, have benefited from an outrageous trade surplus of EUR 100 billion and that their companies are making substantial profits, the details of which we would like to know.
You, Mr Poettering, with your usual skill, recalled Solidarity, with which we are all familiar.
If we are talking about Poland and the fight against totalitarianism, we should mention all the Poles who fought against all types of totalitarianism.
Mr Verheugen, as you said, you are asking for greater flexibility from the candidate countries with regard to financial problems.
I would like to say that I personally am asking for greater solidarity and passion for history from the Fifteen.
In a word, I would have liked to have received an explanation today, not of the old debate - should we first reform and consolidate before enlargement - but of the sine qua non conditions for successful enlargement, reforms and the consolidation of Europe prior to enlargement.
This does not mean building a new barrier, but quite simply, Mr Poettering, making enlargement possible.
That is what I would have liked to hear so that we would be forced to act more quickly and carry out the process of the Convention in greater depth, with regard to agricultural reforms, Structural Fund reforms, reforms of the legal establishment in Europe, in order to make this establishment more democratic.
If we want to be passionate, then let our passion be based on facts.
If we must have ten new Member States, as we want to, and then perhaps Romania and Bulgaria as soon as possible and then Turkey in due course, then let us put the truth to the people that the Treaty of Nice must be accepted if that is to happen.
I would like to congratulate the Commission on the tremendous work that it has done in dealing with all the applicant countries and the fact that it is now in a position to recommend ten countries for accession.
I want to compliment Commissioner Verheugen for what he said in relation to Turkey.
Turkey's position today should not be seen as a rejection by the European Union in any shape or form.
As far as Cyprus is concerned, I am glad that Cyprus has made considerable progress and that it has been recommended to us.
I would also like to endorse what has been proposed to us by the Commission in relation to the political problem in Turkey and Cyprus, with the northern part of Cyprus occupied by Turkey.
We should use all our influence to ensure that a role for the United Nations is accepted in this respect because there is no other way.
Finally, I would like to say to this Parliament, to my colleagues and friends, that despite the best efforts of those in this House who have been trying to confuse the issue of the Treaty of Nice in relation to my country, the Irish people totally support enlargement.
We will have a majority by the end of next week for the Treaty of Nice. (Applause) Mr President, Ireland is one of the two countries in which a majority of people would regret the EU's being dissolved.
The Treaty of Nice has been tested in the country which is most favourably disposed to the EU, yet 54% of the population voted against it.
The situation is anticipated in the Treaty of Amsterdam in the form of a protocol which, by giving them a double majority or more votes in the Council, will compensate the five largest countries for the loss of their second Commissioner.
It is not something to boast about, but it exists in a special declaration which is not part of the treaty and has not therefore been rejected, either.
The Danish summer house protocol contributes to the good relationship between Danes and Germans.
The Danish June Movement is heavily critical of the conditions we are offering the candidate countries, but those of us in this Chamber will vote in favour of them because we respect the candidate countries' own decisions.
Mr President, needless to say, we have always been in favour of a united and strong Europe in which each European people has its place and can retain its cultural identity.
This also applies to the peoples of Eastern Europe who, for decades, lived under the Communist yoke and who for decades were unable to count on the solidarity of anyone in this hemisphere, of not a single one of the political families in this hemisphere who are now, however, all holding forth.
I am, however, opposed to a hurried and dogmatic enlargement such as is being prepared for today and which, I fear, is set to lead to major social, economic, cultural and social problems.
Problems will arise in the current Member States, which will undoubtedly be faced with a major, fresh wave of immigration, but also in the candidate countries when their highly trained people, engineers, doctors, nurses, construction workers and many more will almost certainly, for financial reasons, leave their countries to find a better paid job elsewhere in Europe.
It must be clear to us that reforms must be undertaken in areas such as agricultural policy, but these reforms must not be framed in such a way as to give rise to an alibi for delaying the enlargement process.
This is why we also call on the governments of the Member States to ensure that in those specific areas - such as agricultural policy and financing - where they have still not reached agreement, to do so as quickly as possible so that it is not down to us if there is a delay in the enlargement of the European Union.
It must be clear that, outside the European Union, there is nothing by virtue of which any of the accession candidates has any right to influence the timetable for enlargement as it affects any country whatever.
In my view, the accession candidates also need to continue their efforts, and I would like to thank the Commission for placing such emphasis on implementation through appropriate administrative and judicial structures.
Mr President, in its communication on the progress made in accession negotiations, the Commission confirms that Cyprus will be part of the first wave of accession, as decided at the Copenhagen Summit.
It also appears now that accession negotiations with the Republic of Cyprus have been a powerful catalyst in the United Nations' efforts to solve the political problem of the island in accordance with the rules of international law.
Although nothing has been achieved as yet, and despite the threats of annexing and crisis from Ankara, the recent communication from the Secretary-General of the United Nations is still based on the idea that a political framework solution can be found by the end of the year.
The awakening of civil society and the surveys carried out in northern Cyprus confirm that the majority of the Turkish Cypriot population is also in favour of a pro-European policy.
In the absence of this policy, or if it were hindered by external interference, the Copenhagen European Council would have to take its decisions in accordance with the Helsinki conclusions.
With the accession of ten new countries, the European area of peace and stability is growing, and so is the scope for human rights and democracy.
Mr Prodi has stated that the costs will be reimbursed, but our citizens are not all convinced of this.
Moreover, there are still flaws in the system.
We as regionalists and peoples without a state are very sensitive to the problems that still exist with regard to discrimination against peoples and cultural minorities.
However, we are giving accession the green light today because a red light would be a sign of hostility, while we are, quite rightly in fact, dreaming of this area of peace and stability.
On the contrary, since Nice, each party has retreated within its own private garden.
The principle is there.
But the decision must be postponed at least until the European Convention, for example, proposes a new common architecture for the twenty-five States and new operating rules.
The decision must not be taken in Copenhagen this December, but in Athens or Rome next year, which would not entail any delay in the accession of Member States should the decision be positive.
That is why I shall vote against the report presented to us by the Commission.
The Commission has today given the green light for the accession of ten countries, but it acknowledges at the same time that not all the criteria have been fulfilled as yet.
Europe means talking to each other!
Mr President, thirteen years after the liberation of Central and Eastern Europe and after a number of years of serious negotiation, we have now reached the penultimate stage prior to eight new Member States acceding from that region, and two from the Mediterranean Sea area.
The candidates which, all things being equal, will be taking part in the European elections as fully-fledged members in 2004, will soon be able to send observers to this Parliament, something to which we are very much looking forward.
Casting our minds back to 1989, we can recall the general enthusiasm that greeted the return to Europe of peoples who had long been oppressed.
It is therefore all the more painful to see how at some ministries, this return has been reduced to nothing but a money matter.
The care that the Commission has exercised on behalf of the Council is manifested in various ways, one being the statement that the permanent, sustainable implementation of the negotiation results must be monitored for the time being.
In the coming years, there will certainly be reason to assist some new Member States, or show them the right way, particularly on an administrative level.
More important, however, is the gain in terms of a fairer, more peaceful legal order in Europe and the establishment of a European community of values.
The contribution to this by new members may be significant in this respect too.
I hope that the same spirit which prevailed at the start of Europe's integration will also inspire the new and old Member States in future too.
Mr President, President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's report shows a great deal of optimism but is also very realistic.
I agree with Commissioner Verheugen: much has been achieved, but many more reforms are required and we as parliamentarians in particular must study and evaluate the reports with vision, but also with precision and pragmatism, just as we must scrutinise the outcomes of the negotiations.
At the same time, I believe it would be conducive to the climate of the negotiations and the decision-making process if the Czech Republic could find the courage to clarify the situation, which would entail a reappraisal of the Bene?
Let me make one comment in my capacity as a former rapporteur for Turkey.
However, I understand and endorse the Commission's position, and I see a great opportunity for Turkey if it does not simply fixate on a possible date but is prepared to work with the European Union on building a genuine economic and political partnership with the EU until accession is possible.
However, more can be done, and we can work on this together in the coming months.
I would say that it means a resounding 'yes' to accession, and 'yes' to accession in 2004.
However, it also means that it is up to the countries themselves to decide whether they want to fold their hands in their laps or whether they are willing to continue working on the reforms.
Mr President, I would just like to thank Parliament for the immense, sincere support it has given us in our endeavours to make enlargement a reality at last.
Without Parliament's support, we would not have been able to achieve the objectives that we have, and as well as the European Parliament I would like to thank the parliaments of the candidate countries.
I have been present at many of the meetings they have held to prepare for enlargement and I can assure you that never before has there been such a deep-rooted, such a well-supported, such an important democratic process.
I should also like to say a big thank-you to this Parliament and to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy which quickly reached a decision, with very broad agreement, to support this enlargement project.
There was of course one dissenting voice and, since I am the only Dane speaking today, I should like to provide a little consumer information to Irish voters.
He has conducted campaigns against all the treaties.
He was in the opposition camp when we voted for the first time on the Maastricht Treaty, as he also was when we voted on it for the second time.
He conducted a campaign against the Treaty of Amsterdam, and now he is conducting one against the Treaty of Nice.
We are delighted to see that negotiations with ten candidate countries will be able to be closed at the end of this year, for entry into the European Union at the beginning of 2004.
If this is what we have come to, we would have been better off, as we suggested, with the accession of these States as early as 1990 to a European political confederation, with variable geometry of common policies, and gradual accession for some States as appropriate.
Perhaps, however, this model will once again prove appropriate.
We will move on to the next item on the agenda, the statements by the Council and the Commission on the situation in Iraq.
As I said during the last questions on Iraq on 3 and 4 September, this debate comes at a time when there is a lot of international attention and debate on policy in relation to Iraq.
We unreservedly support all the efforts on the part of the Security Council and the UN Secretary-General.
This attitude was confirmed at the informal meeting of EU Foreign Ministers on 30 and 31 August in Elsinore and also at the meeting of Foreign Ministers on 30 September and 1 October in Brussels.
The United States wants to see a resolution that tightens up the demands made of Iraq in earlier resolutions, making them more specific; that sets earlier deadlines for Iraq's compliance with the demands; and that provides a mandate for a possible military intervention in the event of Iraq's not meeting the demands.
Two subjects are absolutely crucial, namely the issue of a renewed mandate from the Security Council on the use of force, and unconditional, free and unfettered access by the weapons inspectors to all installations and areas in Iraq, including the presidential areas, which is to say the palaces.
The EU attaches importance to going down the UN route, both in order to secure broad international support for the disarmament of Iraq and with a view to the credibility and effectiveness of the Security Council and of multilateral cooperation.
My last intervention was just one month ago, on 4 September, right after the informal meeting of EU Ministers in Elsinore.
It was important, of course, because Mr Bush signalled the American administration's wish, if possible, to work through the UN framework to tackle the threats posed by the Iraqi regime.
The European Union has warmly welcomed President Bush's decision to deal with Iraq through the UN system.
Working through the UN confers legitimacy and a sense of moral consensus on the actions that it is sometimes necessary to take.
This report has shown the risks that these weapons pose to regional stability in the Middle East.
A number of eminent institutes have also shared their assessments of the threats to global security posed by the Iraqi regime.
They all agree on Saddam's attempts to rebuild his capabilities in weapons of mass destruction, taking advantage of the absence of the inspectors over the last four years.
I would like to point out, incidentally, that these inspectors had previously done a better job than they are sometimes given credit for.
Currently, discussions are taking place with and between EU Member States on the terms of a new UN Security Council Resolution designed to pave the way for a completely unconditional return of UN inspectors to Iraq.
As the Presidency made clear, European Ministers last discussed the situation of Iraq on Monday 31 September at the General Affairs Council.
They reiterated the position set out one month earlier in Elsinore, including the overall aim of the elimination of weapons of mass destruction, the need for the unconditional return of UN inspectors with unfettered access to every part of Iraq, and the need for the situation to continue to be addressed along the UN Security Council track.
Recent polls in Europe and the US, as well as public demonstrations, show that citizens would like any decision on Iraq to be taken within the framework of the United Nations system.
Second, the main reasoning behind any UN intervention is the perception that the international community is confronted with the possession of weapons of mass destruction by a dangerous regime.
In addition it has been suggested that these weapons could be supplied to terrorist networks, though some notable public figures, for example Brent Scowcroft, National Security Advisor to President Bush Senior, have expressed scepticism on this point.
The international community for example decided to intervene in Kosovo on humanitarian grounds.
The concept of humanitarian interventions was supported by UN Secretary General Kofi Annan in an outstanding speech three years ago.
However, what is clear from the debates going on around the world is that we need to develop some kind of framework of international law to address such circumstances.
But I find it difficult to believe that any acceptable alternative view should not rest principally on UN mechanisms and procedures.
Third, I am sure that those who are considering the need for a new resolution will be taking into account all options and scenarios.
The international community needs to address how to frame a UN Security Council resolution or resolutions on Iraq.
In this case, it is defiance by Iraq, but there are others in a similar situation of non-compliance.
I hope that as events unfold in the coming months, we see a re-assertion of the authority of the UN with beneficial effects for Iraq, for its region and indeed for the whole world.
We may then, in addition, be able to focus our efforts more constructively on the continuing bloody crisis in the Middle East.
Mr President, the initiatives I would suggest on behalf of my political group clearly follow the line put forward by Mr Patten.
In this regard, we must of course exhaust all political, diplomatic and commercial avenues; but we must also, Mr President, guarantee free access, unrestricted and unconditional, for the United Nations inspectors, so that they can fulfil their mission of verifying whether or not there are weapons of mass destruction.
And it is also clear that we must take account of the need and the determination of the international community so that, in the event of non-compliance with these United Nations resolutions, the international community and the United Nations itself can respond appropriately to verify and demand compliance with those resolutions.
This debate, Mr President, is not trivial, because there may come a time, when the European Union's rapid reaction force is ready for operation, when we have to seek the backing of the United Nations so that that force can carry out a Petersburg task, and it is possible that a member of the Security Council with the right to vote may put a stop to any action of the European Union's rapid reaction force.
I wanted to point out this debate, because it seems to me appropriate at the moment, especially in light of the events of September 11, and it is clear that we have to make progress in a whole series of areas relating to the security and defence policy.
We must assess the compatibility of the European Union's rapid reaction force with the initiative of the United States to create a rapid reaction force within NATO; we must consider the extent to which we can make the use of NATO's infrastructure compatible in relation to the European Union's actions in the field of defence; we must preserve the European Union's capacity for autonomous decision-making in the field of defence and we must resolve the problem of military expenditure, or to put it another way, we must decide, on the basis of the facts, whether we want to spend more or spend better.
The events of 11 September demand a response from the international community because, in the face of the threats and problems of international terrorism, we must all respond together, and within the European Union, we must offer a single response.
Mr President, President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are issues relating to the current situation in Iraq which are uncontentious, which we all share and where we have a broad consensus.
The first is that Iraq must comply with all the UN Security Council's resolutions in full and without any ifs, buts or maybes.
They include, for example, the question whether the weapons inspectors who now have a mandate to go to Iraq must wait until the Security Council adopts a new resolution.
At the same time, the UN Secretary-General must look at the issue of the embargo.
Mr President, we know that one reason for military intervention is the search for weapons of mass destruction, but there are, of course, other reasons.
There are, of course, different reasons for intervening: humanitarian interventions, self-defence, Article 51, as was used in Afghanistan, and now a new proposal of anticipatory self-defence - the so-called pre-emptive strike - discussed by President Bush for regime change.
But this Parliament, surely, should have one thing in mind: the people of Iraq.
The establishment of the Office of Human Rights was accepted in principle by Commissioner Patten at our debate in May 2002.
It is not absurd to imagine that the resolution currently in the process of being adopted by the United Nations Security Council could finally be drawn up to encourage disarmament in Iraq rather than to legitimise a military intervention there.
He nevertheless seems to understand that the framework of the United Nations is difficult to circumvent.
The American President has not given up any of his plans, but he is perhaps beginning to realise that international political life is not a western in which he can play the role of sheriff.
I believe it is time to promote the mission of disarmament inspectors as an alternative solution to war.
Today, they say, their experience is greater still and their equipment more sophisticated.
Furthermore, my group would consider highly useful a further declaration by the Council and the Commission on the new strategic doctrine published by the Bush administration on 20 September.
I find it inconceivable that the European Union is silent on this text which magnifies what is described as the unparalleled force of the United States and emphasises their determination, to paraphrase, to act alone, if necessary as a pre-emptive measure, to extend the triumph of freedom.
Lastly, we are still waiting for the beginning of the first stages of the implementation of the last parliamentary resolution on the Middle East.
While George Bush draws the world's attention to Baghdad, however, his protégé, who, not long ago, he classed as a man of peace even though he is violating all the resolutions of the Security Council concerning his country, is attacking the Palestinians with indescribable cruelty, thereby exposing his own people to a new infernal cycle of vengeance and hatred.
Mr President, the problem with the American threats of war against Iraq is not the desire in itself to replace an undemocratic regime.
From time to time, we can even support an armed national struggle for liberation against a dictator, as many of us did against the European colonial powers in Africa.
The weapons inspectors must therefore be sent back into Iraq as soon as possible, and the American threats of a military strike without a UN Security Council resolution must be condemned.
Otherwise, we are just legitimising lawless Wild-West violence in other parts of the world, for example Israel's massacre of Palestinians or perhaps Russian interventions in Georgia.
Mr President, the debate on Iraq you provided us with last month in Strasbourg made us fear the worst, namely war.
After a year in which the United States have not made any bones about comparing Saddam Hussein to Bin Laden, we still have no proof that Iraq was involved in the September 11 attacks and the broader Al Qaida organisation.
We could not seriously, however, tell the world today that tomorrow we will be able to capture Mullah Omar or Osama Bin Laden on Babylonian soil.
We should instead ask ourselves what we have done, what we ourselves have managed to do, as the European Union, to bring about a situation in which it will be possible to achieve that which we all hope for, to reach a point where military attacks are not necessary and the inspectors have full access to the Iraqi sites.
We must explore the possibilities provided under international law for raising awareness and providing information, for defeating a regime which is waging a constant, daily war against its own people, a war which is constantly causing deaths in Iraq and which is a danger to the international community.
We must see what we ourselves, as the European Union, can do rather than sitting here applauding or criticising the actions of those who do, at least, have the courage to shoulder responsibilities.
The second question concerns the UN Security Council.
Faced with the prospect of an enlarged EU with 25 Member States, a large majority in this Parliament is saying that we shall be unable to make decisions unless the veto is abolished.
At the same time, we find ourselves in a situation in which a Communist government in Beijing in China, whose record on human rights does it little credit, actually has an unlimited right of veto when it comes to the international community's most important bodies, the UN and the UN Security Council, and the ways in which they are to act to prevent violence and preserve world peace.
The third question concerns how we are to be able to bring about a change in the Middle East.
We know Saddam Hussein is a threat to the region and to his own people, but we know that for the interests of world peace we must act through the United Nations.
If the UN is not capable of seeing this through, the whole multilateral element of international politics would be discredited and the world would become a much more dangerous place.
Calls for American national unity have not been able to mask the social and economic difficulties there, its crisis of political confidence and its restrictions of democratic freedom, which are condemned by many American citizens.
Such a war would also allow other objectives to be targeted, such as strengthening the direct hold over oil and gas resources in the Middle East, in order to kick-start growth in the United States, strike a blow to OPEC, one of Washington's pet hates, and weaken the Arab world, depriving it of any possible political opposition force.
This war can only destroy the United Nations' efforts to consolidate international law in favour of fair, lasting peace.
This is borne out by Ariel Sharon's stated support for Bush, for whom the international situation represents an opportunity to strike further blows against the Palestinian resistance.
Do not think that our continent will be spared by this war.
It is not too late to prevent this war.
Mr President, two minutes, six points.
Thirdly, I have rarely seen situations in which so little attention is paid to the study of what could occur should force be used.
Fourthly, President-in-Office of the Council, Europe needs a strong, clear, public position, and is capable of this.
This is also part of behaving with common decency at an international level.
The second aspect proposes solving the problem in two stages: first, with regard to inspectors and their right of work, and second, lastly, taking account of what would happen should Saddam refuse, in other words the use of Chapter 7 of the Charter.
Mr President, Commissioner, the international community considered that the Iraqi regime, which was responsible for two wars, against Iran and then Kuwait, constituted a permanent potential threat to the security of its neighbours.
That is why the Security Council drew up a strategy to cut off Iraq in order to prevent it from equipping itself with weapons of mass destruction, which, up until 1998, was effective.
The United Nations system is a guarantee of peace, and weakening this system is in nobody's interests.
Unilaterally waging a pre-emptive war against a sovereign State would set an extremely dangerous precedent that could be invoked in future by any country in order to try to solve its problems, for example India or Pakistan with regard to Kashmir.
That would amount to denying the remarkably efficient work carried out by inspectors from the United Nations and the IAEA between 1991 and 1998 and to renouncing any future disarmament control missions.
Automatically excluding the use of force under any circumstances, as suggested, for example, by the German Government, would weaken the position of the international community.
Lastly, we must at all costs prevent inappropriate action in Iraq from making the international fight against Islamic terrorism more difficult, as this is a priority.
Such action could in fact, as emphasised yesterday by Philippe de Villiers at the French National Assembly, cause a sudden resurgence of Islamic extremism and the collapse of the international coalition constituted after September 11.
Mr President, for several months now, there has been a real commotion among the Western countries with regard to Iraq.
The inspections stopped in 1998 and President Bush discovered in 2002 that Iraq was once again a threat.
The fight against terrorism, after the savage attacks of September 11, must not, in the hands of the American Government, become an imperial strategy to conquer the world.
A military intervention against Iraq would have terrifying consequences today in the Middle East.
A war against Iraq - and we must realise this today - a war against Iraq would be considered by Arab-Muslim public opinion as a war against the entire Arab-Muslim world.
That is the best way of fighting for the renaissance of democracy in Iraq.
Mr President, no one is in any doubt that Saddam Hussein is a brutal dictator.
If it were, we would be attacking many countries around the world.
President Bush cannot, of course, admit this.
Instead, we are told we must go to war in order to destroy Saddam's weapons of mass destruction.
Let us be clear about this, our moral authority might be a little stronger if we did not also have weapons of mass destruction.
Commissioner Patten said that working with the UN confers legitimacy.
First of all, we must scrupulously follow the United Nations' procedures in demanding the disarmament of Iraq.
We must stop this regime from doing harm and in particular from using weapons of mass destruction.
Mr President, after September 11, a broad international coalition was formed to combat terrorism.
After 30 January this year, President Bush's speech on the state of the Union disconcerted many Europeans.
Europe has always backed the United Nations Security Council.
One thing is certain, if there is military intervention in Iraq, the Iraqi people, who have already suffered so much, will defend themselves to the last and we will not enter Baghdad as liberators.
We all know that the attacks on Iraq are already underway on a massive scale in the no-fly zones in the country.
The attack would be seen, along with the incursions against Palestine, as an attack on the Arab world itself.
We condemn Saddam Hussein unreservedly for his regime which oppresses minorities and offends democracy in Iraq.
A more sensible and productive international approach, however, would be to defend and ensure self-determination for all minorities in Iraq, especially the five million Kurds in the north of the country comprising one quarter of the Iraqi population.
The public is wondering, in good faith, how it is possible that, in ten years of embargo inflicted upon the civilian population, the dictator, Saddam Hussein, has been able to rebuild his military and even his nuclear arsenal.
Lastly, I feel that Europe must address the issue of combating terrorism and producing legal instruments for prosecuting terrorists, acting with complete honesty towards both the United States and the authoritarian regimes.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten is right when he says that the situation, while still very complex and difficult, has developed over recent days towards a more articulate context, in which the process has matured noticeably and public opinion has moved on, especially United States public opinion.
In this regard, Gore criticised President Bush for having squandered - to quote literally - the extraordinary response of sympathy, good will and solidarity which followed the attacks of 11 September which - he said - has been replaced by an atmosphere of fear and reticence towards the United States administration.
I believe that in this situation, which is developing in a relatively favourable manner, energetic and mature criteria must be applied in carrying out the war against terror, and this essentially requires that Europe apply two priorities: rapid convergence within the United Nations and its Security Council and, secondly, making every effort so that the future task of the inspectors may end in success.
The UN and its decision-taking procedures have underpinned the international legal order for the last 50 or 60 years and have been used to resolve the most serious of political issues.
We cannot just fall in with whoever happens to be in power in America at the time, with the Clinton administration taking one tack and the Bush administration taking another.
And, the investigation to find out if Saddam Hussein has weapons of mass destruction should extend to anyone who has provided materials or know-how.
Finally, let us not forget the millions who are suffering, let us not forget the children who are dying and let us not forget that we, the European Union, must not be inhumane.
The nations came to an agreement under international law on the rules for military intervention in order to preserve world peace.
It stands to reason that Iraq must comply with UN resolutions and allow the inspectors to carry out their work without conditions.
An agreement has also been reached between Hans Blix and Iraq whereby the inspectors are to be allowed to resume the work which was in actual fact suspended when the USA and the UK started their last bombing campaign.
Iraq, like all other countries, has to abide by the decisions taken by the UN.
Saddam Hussein is fortunately a very special case with a very distinctive history stretching back a long way.
There must be unconditional access for the weapons inspectors, including access to Saddam Hussein's extensive palaces.
Turning finally to the lifting of the embargo, the oil for food programme has in fact been revised.
Work has many other functions in addition to this, however.
The new areas that are to help make Europe into a leading power include an extensive labour market and social responsibility on the part of enterprises.
In Europe, we also face a series of common challenges which we must solve if we are to retain the European social model, combining economic effectiveness with good social security arrangements and a market economy with the welfare society.
As its point of departure, the Presidency has attached great importance to our obtaining a thorough debate before a new and revised Employment Strategy is devised.
To ensure there is enough time for the debate, we thought it important to give the subject a central place in the Danish Presidency's programme in the employment and socio-political area and to begin revising the strategy no later than at the first formal Council meeting.
That provides the best opportunity to send a clear signal to the Commission as early as possible.
It is they who have been responsible for implementing and monitoring the strategy since it was introduced in 1997.
Over the last few years, other actors too have, however, obtained relevant experience to which consideration should be given in connection with the current evaluation.
The communication is a crucial point of departure for the debate now taking place in various forums.
A common statement is, moreover, in accordance with the current desire for better coordination between, and streamlining of, the various European processes such as the employment guidelines and the guidelines governing general economic policy.
The Danish Presidency's ambition has, however, been firstly to work for a compromise capable of uniting those Member States that want to see the Employment Strategy considerably revised with those that want to see far fewer changes.
I am therefore pleased to be able now to report that the Council offered its unanimous endorsement of the common statement by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Economic-Political Committee.
A strong political signal was thus also conveyed concerning the framework and principles that the governments of the Member States believe should form the basis for preparing for the revision of the European Employment Strategy.
This means that special attention must be given to the results that, based on the Lisbon objectives of more and better jobs, are to be achieved through the strategy.
There is agreement that the strategy should concentrate more specifically on the following broad objectives: job creation and increasing labour force participation, improved quality of work, improvement and modernisation of the functioning of the labour market and the ensuring of both flexibility and job security.
Finally, the Council, in expressing its support yesterday, expressed a wish for the strategy further to reflect the fact that the focus is on the medium-term challenges set out by the Lisbon strategy where, for example, the participation rates for women and older people are concerned.
Implicit in this is the wish for greater stability in the guidelines over time.
In other words, they must not necessarily be changed each year.
The wish for stability also conceals the fact that work is under way to ensure a greater degree of coordination and less overlap between the various European cooperation processes.
We in the Presidency view these general principles, endorsed by the Council, as a contribution and pointer to the Commission in connection with its ongoing work as the end of the year approaches.
The Council's agreement yesterday means that there are a number of factors that will have to be debated further over the next few months.
That is especially true when it comes to the more active involvement of the two sides of industry and of the European Parliament.
There is therefore a clear desire to enter into more practical deliberations as to how the European Parliament can play a larger role in the preparation and development of the Employment Strategy.
The objective must be a more efficient set of indicators, which are robust, comparable, more focused on the individual guidelines and based upon up-to-date data.
I want to emphasise in conclusion that the Danish Presidency wishes to make the Employment Strategy easier to operate and more serviceable as a starting point for employment-promoting strategies in the individual Member States.
Over the next few years, the idea of a revised European Employment Strategy is that it should help make Europe more coherent as a continent and as a society.
The idea is that the Employment Strategy should be targeted and that the decision-making process in connection with the adoption and implementation of the strategy's individual features should become more transparent.
The discussions we had yesterday in Luxembourg concerned both the evaluation of the European Employment Strategy and the streamlining of processes in the context of the Lisbon agenda.
I am pleased to say that there is now a large common platform of shared views between the three institutions upon which we can base the further development of the strategy and, in particular, define the next generation of employment guidelines.
There is a long list of these, including job creation and increasing labour force participation; improving quality in work; modernising and improving the functioning of the labour market; ensuring flexibility and security; increasing labour force supply via policies promoting an inclusive labour market; promoting active and preventive labour market policies; reforming tax and benefit systems; improving lifelong learning skills and mobility and promoting developments in entrepreneurship conducive to job creation.
Overlaps and duplications with other processes should be more limited, in particular, through coordination between the employment strategy and the broad economic policy guidelines.
The third point concerns the governance of the process.
Less and clearer objectives should make the strategy more visible.
A stronger focus on implementation and results should provide a better knowledge-base and more transparency.
There are major problems in some Member States, where the national parliaments have not participated in, nor have, in some cases, any idea about the employment strategy, the monetary procedures or the common goals.
As you know, the formal proposal for the employment guidelines 2003 will be presented in April 2003 together with the proposal for the broad economic policy guidelines.
There is enough time for a rich exchange of views with the Parliament over the next few months in order to define and to agree on procedures for the new European Employment Strategy.
This is why, in February 2002, the Commission produced an action plan for skills and mobility that identifies 25 measures intended to respond to the shortcomings and needs indicated by the high-level task force.
I feel bound to criticise the Commission for having presented its proposals directly to the Barcelona European Council before giving Parliament the opportunity to comment on them.
I shall now address the Commission, so that it takes account of the importance of this instrument and fulfils the good intentions expressed in its communication on this particular aspect; the objective of transparency and of centralising information on employment opportunities within the Union can be achieved through the creation of a one-stop site providing information on mobility as well as campaigns aimed at individual industries.
I would also highlight the fact that the candidate countries must combat the brain drain in this area; we must help them to create their own structures for innovation and to promote the exchange of experience.
The Commission is delighted at how well Parliament has received the action plan and with its support for these measures which, as you know, were approved by the High-Level Task Force on Skills and Mobility as the most suitable way of improving the conditions upon which mobility and lifelong learning for our citizens depend.
Parliament's report contains a number of undertakings which are even more ambitious than those made by the Commission in the action plan, although I have to say that, given the priorities laid down in part by the Barcelona Council, the Commission has endeavoured to make the action plan as realistic and feasible as possible, taking account of the legislative procedures required in order to keep to the proposed deadlines.
The action plan contains a series of specific targets which will be used to evaluate its success over coming years and we shall, of course, need a number of indicators in order to assess its progress.
These indicators will be defined together with the Member States.
The point of reinforced cooperation is to improve the quality and attractiveness of vocational training overall and to address the lack of transparency and mutual trust hampering the recognition of professional qualifications and skills from one country to another.
The implementation of the plan is under way, legislative proposals have been submitted, new procedures have been designed and the Council has been urged to take decisions on the proposals already tabled.
Thirdly, the Commission will be tabling its proposal on the European health insurance card at the beginning of 2003, which Parliament already knows about.
The connection between immigration and employment is to be discussed at a joint OECD/European Commission conference in January 2003.
The action plan for skills and mobility is a very complicated and ambitious plan containing a whole host of measures which, if they are to be implemented, require very close collaboration between the European institutions and the social factors and social partners.
Certainly it is fair to say that generally, Member States and this Parliament too often skate around the important issue of employment.
We need to recognise that the greatest engine of employment growth in all our countries is the sector called 'small and medium-sized enterprises'.
The Lisbon Council said, and I repeated this in my report, that we need to encourage a regulatory climate which is conducive to investment, innovation and entrepreneurship in general.
I am heartened, however, by the lead that the Danish Presidency is trying to give and I would like to thank Minister Frederiksen in particular for a most helpful letter that he sent me on 18 September.
There should also, wherever possible, be a freedom of choice as to the method of implementation as is, for instance, the case in connection with the open coordination method in the employment and social field.
Finally I would like to emphasise that I also attach great importance to the principle of subsidiarity.' Those are extremely wise words and we all look forward to them being translated into action.
The first report on this multi-annual programme was in January 2001.
This means including a fuller analysis of certain aspects of the initiative and also the winding up of the Joint European Venture, the JEV Programme, in its current form.
I am reminded that at the end of the debate in December on exactly this subject, Commissioner Liikanen accosted me just after he finished speaking and asked whether the Parliament agreed with winding up the JEV Programme, because this was what the Commission very much wanted to do.
Mr President, we received the report by the European Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on the third report on the growth and employment initiative with a great deal of interest.
In reply to your call in connection with so-called pre-start financing by financing intermediaries under the SME Guarantee Facility, I should point out that this pre-start financing is granted to certain small and medium-sized enterprises because they are in the start-up phase; they do not need to be officially recognised before the loan is granted and they are, of course, selected by the financing intermediaries.
As far as geographical and sectoral coverage is concerned, the European Investment Fund has managed to achieve relatively satisfactory coverage of all countries despite the recession on all the money markets.
It has managed to commit all the available funds in thirteen Member States.
We also believe that we need to divide the budget between the various SME funding mechanisms within this framework with the right degree of flexibility, taking account of market demand rather than just responding to the need for geographical coverage.
I should point out that the European Investment Fund has always endeavoured to channel funding to countries where there is little demand.
The survival of programmes which benefit small and medium-sized enterprises is guaranteed under the multiannual programme on enterprise and entrepreneurship, which is now also open to candidate countries.
The European Investment Fund hopes to start negotiating contracts before the end of 2002, by signing memoranda of understanding with these countries and completing financial procedures.
As far as the European Technology Facility Start-Up Facility presented in the 2001 annual report is concerned, the revaluation of fast-growth innovative enterprises and the huge losses sustained by investors as a result have completely upset the market and there appears to be little likelihood of any change here in the future.
There was limited demand on the part of small and medium-sized enterprises and considerable delays in processing applications, due to the fact that the Commission had to apply strict procedures in order to minimise the risk of irregularity and protect the Community's economic interests.
The final evaluation of the growth and employment initiative should be completed and be ready for submission to Parliament in November 2002.
At the end of the consultation period, the Commission will submit a proposal to the Council in March or May 2003 for a Council decision amending the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship and possibly shutting down the specific initiative on the Joint European Venture.
Finally, two words about evaluation: the period covering the budget allocated to the financial instruments managed by the European Investment Fund expired on 29 May 2002, that is, four years after the Council decision was issued.
The conclusion drawn from all the analyses and investigations is that one of the most serious problems faced by small and medium-sized enterprises is financing and that this is a real problem throughout the European Union.
Mr President, SMEs play an important role, both from an economic and a social point of view.
This is why they should benefit from the EU financial instruments to a much greater degree than they have so far.
The Commission needs to tackle the lack of information SMEs and micro-enterprises have about these programmes.
In Europe, SMEs have to face many more obstacles when accessing financing than is the case for SMEs in the United States.
The goal of becoming the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world will not be realised without a skilled labour force, for which mobility is practically possible, and even welcome.
In its opinion, however, the Committee on Culture also highlights the broader objectives of a basic education and its fundamental importance.
Although education is the responsibility of the Member States, we also need common actions and objectives.
In 2000 the number of those who received further education at the very least varied among the Member States from 78% right down to less than 20%.
It will be difficult to establish a firm basis for competitiveness unless we raise levels of education.
If education systems are made more flexible it will be possible, for example, to heighten interest in mathematics and the natural sciences.
This would be a good example for other policy areas.
Third, the action plan proposes the formation of industrial, educational and other advisory bodies.
Whilst I know that membership of these bodies is not always within the Commission's jurisdiction, a clause requiring the Commission to ensure equal representation when possible sends everyone involved a very clear message that this is desirable and expected.
The report makes several points which I welcome and which are important to women, such as qualifying periods for supplementary pension rights - as mentioned by the Commissioner - and the use of best practice to encourage more young women to take an interest in mathematics, science and technology.
I hope Parliament will support the report.
I will give you an example that occurred this week, namely Commissioner Bolkestein's Take-Over Directive.
If this were the case, this would, in my view, be wrong.
I would therefore like to find out from the Commission whether this was the case here, and if not, whether this is likely to happen in future.
We have seen a few recent cases - it is enough for me to mention Enron, but also the current strike on the west coast - in which the United States does not do so well.
I would urge the Council and the Commission mainly to try to adopt the good things that are happening in the United States and not too many of the bad things, and also not to think that we are doing so badly on all scores.
Mr President, I wish to thank the Council and the Commission for their statements on employment strategy, and I also wish to thank the two rapporteurs.
Regarding openness and the participation of partners, I wish to emphasise what has been said about the social partners.
There are, however, some shortcomings, especially in the field of democratic control.
These issues are important.
We cannot let such important issues be decided behind closed doors by employees' associations.
If there is anyone who should be doing the coordinating it is the General Council.
Mr President, I too should like to thank the Commission, my fellow MEPs and the rapporteurs for this policy document.
Fortunately, the Committee on Budgets has already adopted an amendment to this effect and I hope that the same can be done in this Chamber.
Eventually, however, the cross-border harmonisation of social security systems, social policy and even tax policy will also need to improve.
As for his comment on take-over bids, I should like to note that in my view, European enterprises are better able to run as a result, and if they run better within the internal market, this will eventually lead to better investments and thus to more employment.
I believe that we must keep a grip on reality and focus on what is tangible.
We are discussing the revision of the employment strategy.
If we look at the current guidelines, and the priorities as they are at present formulated, then it is clear that the employment strategy has, in fact, partly been overtaken by the Lisbon process, and the Lisbon process, has, in turn, been overtaken by an economic downturn.
This means that a great number of things are actually in the balance.
The question is, however, whether we are always able to do this.
I can understand that things are different for youth unemployment, but a number of other types of work, such as jobs for the elderly, cannot always be promoted.
Commissioner, I feel that there is not much point in constantly referring back to the Lisbon objectives if our goal is to define at European level and, most importantly, at national level, action plans and legislative measures to create an environment which will encourage firms' competitiveness, particularly in this period, and thus create the right conditions for high-quality employment.
In my opinion, there are a number of things we should do - and we can choose whether or not to do them - at national level.
I would point out, however, that there are mobility problems within the Community and within the individual countries, and I am thinking here of Italy, for example, where there is extremely little, if any, labour mobility within the country because of labour market legislation, because of national collective agreements - and I hope that nobody is going to propose European collective agreements for the different sectors of the labour market - agreements which do not recognise specific situations or even the different benefits that the individual areas might present for an efficient labour market; we therefore need to create worker mobility but also investment mobility.
I believe that we must reflect on this issue, and we must also reflect on the fact that it might be better for Europe to concentrate on the need for a constant increase in the role of the social partners rather than trying to introduce the most effective market rules possible.
As employment statistics show, labour market reforms have not, unfortunately, been strong enough to create the sort of momentum which translates into new jobs, to the point that, even in countries such as Greece which has growth of around 4%, unemployment is still a problem.
This means that growth does not always bring jobs, mainly due to weaknesses and rigidity on the labour market, such as the difficulty young people and women have accessing the labour market, the mismatch between the demands of the labour market and the skills of graduates of our educational establishments and the survival in numerous areas of the Union of anachronistic and outdated perceptions of work and the value of women's work.
The new generation of guidelines on employment you referred to, Commissioner, need to take account of the fact that the labour market is still, unfortunately, split along the gender divide, that women earn less than men, that only 25% of companies are owned by women and that the glass ceiling is still very firmly in place.
Chapter II of the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights, entitled 'Freedoms', in Article 15, tells us that 'Every citizen of the Union has the freedom to seek employment, to work, to exercise the right of establishment and to provide services in any Member State'.
The European Union must become the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth, accompanied by more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
This impact must also be felt in specific material areas and areas of competence, such as the service economy and the environment and of course, with the participation of social agents, in a fluid and easy communication between the professional and educational sectors, taking particular account of the importance of training and education systems in relation to the development of a culture of mobility, creating horizontal policies, such as policies on equality and others, because the different options are not exclusive and self-contained compartments, but part of a whole, a series of actions intended to develop the European social model and realise the principles that certain visionaries - I say this with respect - perceived more than 50 years ago.
I should like to express my great astonishment and sadness at this and ask him why no agreement could be reached.
I am also a little surprised at the fact that the report features on the agenda of this plenary meeting, since we tried very hard to reach agreement within the committee on a number of important points.
I have two observations to make in this connection.
I should like to ask the Commission to pay particular attention to matters of this kind during this assessment, because I believe that it could in itself present a very important opportunity to promote entrepreneurship and cooperation.
I should like to comment on the question of mobility, which is very limited - the statistics have already been quoted and there is no need to repeat them.
I would also suggest that we need to make use of important instruments for finding innovative ways of promoting mobility, such as Article 6 of the European Social Fund.
It will thus be possible to enhance and extend cross-border cooperation in training, the recognition of qualifications and the protection of pension rights, to which the social partners have made a decisive contribution with the promotion by Eures of at least 39 interregional trade union councils in the territories bordering on the States of Europe.
The need for greater involvement of the Member States in the funding and running of Eures and the associated structures is certainly something we support, but the form and extent of this involvement can only be defined at Community level and involve all the Member States jointly and severally: in other words, it must not lead to the Commission casting off its responsibility for the running or even the continued existence of the interregional trade union councils.
I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the Commission's Action Plan, which contains practical measures for creating a more favourable environment for the European labour market by 2005, making it more open and accessible for all.
If, indeed, we want a Europe with more and higher-quality jobs, with greater social cohesion - in other words, if we want to achieve the ambitious but necessary Lisbon objectives - it is essential that we continue to concentrate on eliminating once and for all those barriers which still exist, restricting the professional and geographical mobility of the European citizens and, indeed, limiting their potential.
We therefore need to update and simplify coordination of social security once and for all, speed up revision of Regulation No 1408/71 and address and resolve together the complex issue of supplementary pensions.
Let there be no doubt that the debate is open to all players and that the role of the European Parliament in this debate is absolutely crucial.
One of the things I would point out is that the current modernisation of EEC Regulation 1408/71 on social security schemes for employed persons moving within the Community is on the agenda of the Council's December meeting.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Madam President, Commissioners, President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Cohn-Bendit, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to table the question here and also to make a number of comments on behalf of our rapporteur - if he is not here - on the conclusion of an association agreement with Algeria.
We therefore also postponed our decision until we were able to hold a discussion with the Algerian Foreign Minister, to whom we put questions on a wide range of issues, notably concerning compliance with key aspects of this agreement and especially the clauses on human rights and democracy.
I believe that it is in our common interest that we should have peaceful and democratic development, based on the rule of law, throughout the Mediterranean region, and therefore also in Algeria.
In this context, it is naturally also of interest to us to find out, in view of the European Union's policies, to what extent free movement of persons can genuinely be developed in this area, and, furthermore, how issues such as asylum policy can be dealt with.
In line with the resolutions which we have tabled in this House, however, we intend to monitor the implementation of this agreement on an ongoing basis and look very carefully at what you, the Council and the Commission, are doing, so that we ensure that our notions of democracy and human rights, as well as the joint campaign against terrorism, can flow into a progressively positive common policy.
In the past, this Parliament has on several occasions vigorously condemned the terrorist attacks and violence in Algeria; it has encouraged attempts to achieve peace and harmony and full democracy through dialogue between all the social and democratic forces; whenever it has considered it necessary, it has condemned violations of human rights in Algeria, of whatever kind, and has supported the increasing vitality of Algerian civil society and its democratic forces; it has urged the Algerian authorities to guarantee that the press remains free, as one of their most positive national assets; it has supported the attitude of the Algerian authorities in favour of economic transition, the renegotiation of debt, the stimulation of internal economic investment and external investment, and has expressed the need, on the one hand, for an open and transparent economy with solid and autonomous institutions, as a basis for the economic and social development of the country and, on the other, for a full democratic transition, essential elements of which would be peace and full respect for human rights.
The Algerian crisis is partly the result of the events of 1991, of continued intermittent terrorism which has led to a civil confrontation which has probably caused a hundred or a hundred and fifty thousand deaths in Algeria.
In fact, there are fundamental democratic issues and also, above all, problems resulting from the economic and social situation.
Europe needs Algeria for its creation of a Euro-Mediterranean partnership that turns our southern flank into an area of stability, peace and shared progress in which there is convergence between the economic and social situations of the northern and southern sides of the Mediterranean.
The Association agreement must be a basic instrument to guarantee cooperation in essential areas of economic and social development in Algeria, but also an instrument available to us which we must be able to use, without interference but firmly, to achieve the greatest possible influence on the development of this great country towards peace, harmony amongst its citizens, the eradication of terrorism and all types of violence, the affirmation of human rights and progress in the civil and democratic field.
Madam President, might I be permitted to emphasise that the signing of the association agreement really has signified a turning point and opened a new chapter in our relations with Algeria.
It is primarily a question of intergovernmental relations, but the agreement also provides a framework for the commercial world and civil society.
With regard to respect for human rights, the Council is monitoring very carefully the issues relating to respect for human rights in Algeria, and specifically within the political dialogue with Algeria that has taken place at ministerial level since 1997.
However, the Council looks favourably upon the important decision taken recently to give the Tamazight language the status of a national language.
The situation remains difficult and complex, however, as may be seen from the low turnout at the parliamentary election on 30 May 2002.
The October local elections will also be able to provide an important indication of the situation in the region.
We are supporting these by means of the Meda Regulation, providing EUR 240 million for the period 2000-2004, and by means of the loans from the European Investment Bank, amounting to EUR 620 million since 1996.
According to the association agreement, the Association Council can facilitate cooperation and contacts between the European Parliament and Algeria's parliamentary institutions, as well as between the Economic and Social Committee and the corresponding body in Algeria.
I should like to comment on three important points, in reply to the issues raised by Mr Brok.
Algeria has a duty to improve the situation and, more to the point, to ensure that there is a genuine division between the executive, legislative and judicial powers and transparent ballot counts.
The political dialogue for which provision is made in the association agreement will provide a valuable framework for exchanging opinions and experience on this issue.
From an economic point of view, the association agreement allows for the gradual introduction of a single free trade area between Algeria and the European Union and challenges the Algerian Government to make the necessary reforms.
But now it has an opportunity, helped by this agreement, to adopt economic reforms which, basically, will rectify economic distortions and social inequalities.
The second point concerns the free movement of persons.
The third issue is the human rights clause, which is fundamental to the association procedure.
The link to the Barcelona process implies a joint commitment to comply with certain basic democratic rules and values.
The European Parliament is willing, as it has already stated, to foster dialogue with the Algerian parliament and this will be vital to exchanges of information, common positions and the interests of both sides.
On a more general note, the Commission wholeheartedly supports Parliament's approval of this association agreement, which must not under any circumstances be seen as a blank cheque for the Algerian Government; it is a way of encouraging it to continue with the political, economic and social reforms it has started, basically in order to better the lot of the Algerian people.
Today, however, we draw the attention of the Algerian authorities to the fact that, for European investors, the formalities that must currently be fulfilled with a view to approval are probably a little too bureaucratic and can sometimes be discouraging.
The third point is that we must hope this agreement will help to develop and strengthen regional cooperation - and you mentioned that as well, President-in-Office of the Council - and that it will therefore contribute to kick-starting the process of constituting the Arab Maghreb Union, a process which today is unfortunately at a standstill in the absence of any prospect of a political solution to the problem of the Western Sahara.
Also on this point, I believe it would be useful to ask the Algerian authorities to pay the utmost attention to finding a solution that allows all the parties concerned to save face, by means, naturally, of the necessary compromises.
On the contrary, it should make us more committed to making a clear assessment of the current state of the country and to helping the Algerian people to overcome their difficulties.
That is why I am giving my full support to the Euro-Mediterranean association agreement that has been presented to us for our agreement today.
This agreement will facilitate regional integration and in particular the Arab Maghreb Union, which we are hoping for with all our might.
This agreement sends a strong signal of the solidarity of European citizens with the Algerian people.
And in particular, this agreement should support Algeria in its efforts to achieve openness, reforms and modernisation.
In this context, I am pleased to see the broad consensus within the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy in favour of the proposed measures.
Nevertheless, our agreement must not be interpreted as giving the Algerian authorities carte blanche.
Madam President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, we have discussed this matter for quite some time in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, with reports and hearings.
We have done all of this not only because we take this issue seriously, but also because there are many issues concerning Algeria which need to be dealt with.
The situation in Kabylia is still desperate, and peaceful demonstrators have been killed.
These issues are described very well and in great detail in Mr Brok's resolution.
The Liberal Group has made constructive efforts to contribute to this resolution.
The Liberal Group would vote against the resolution.
The association agreement is important for Algeria.
In spite of the agreement's shortcomings, we believe that Europe has to help Algeria to build up its economic, political and democratic institutions.
As has been pointed out, the agreement constitutes an extremely important part of the Barcelona process.
Madam President, I say 'yes' to strong links between Europe and Algeria.
The Algerians are practically alone in having suffered the barbarity of fundamentalist terrorism since before 11 September 2001.
Although the association agreement shows the will to establish privileged links between the Union and Algeria, it also raises questions, starting with the lack of prior consultation, as denounced by Algerian independent trade unions and associations.
Our resolution rightly emphasises human rights first and foremost, and the resolution must keep this aspect.
Madam President, of course this agreement is not the result of an extensive process of participation and negotiation between all the main players from both sides.
Mr Morillon, I am going to put your mind at ease, please be reassured: we are not interfering when we talk of the democratic deficit and of the importance of supporting the development of freedom in this country.
In order to avoid this, it is necessary to very clearly acknowledge that, today, it is practically indecent to deny that the violence that has blighted Algeria for more than ten years is down to groups of all kinds, and when I say all kinds, clearly I am also talking about military security groups.
The Algerian Government passed the test victorious in spite of its isolation and timidity, I would even say faintheartedness, for which European aid is chiefly to blame.
In order to achieve this, we must clearly go beyond a simple association agreement with Algeria, as with other Maghreb countries, which are our closest allies.
What saddens me, however, is that these references alone will not promote respect for women's rights in practice and that no reference to this issue was made either by the President-in-Office or by you, Commissioner, who are a champion of women's rights and have nailed your flag to the mast of respect for the principle of equality in the Community's foreign relations.
I should like to remind you that, in its resolution on the report on respect for women's rights in Euro-Mediterranean relations, the European Parliament called for an express provision on protection for women's rights and, at the same time, called for provision to be made for a protection monitoring policy similar to that applied to candidate countries.
I should therefore like to take this opportunity to voice my disappointment, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, at the sidelining of this issue and to salute the Commissioner's words, her optimistic words, about the association agreement not being a blank cheque for Algeria.
We would like the European Commission to set up mechanisms to monitor and evaluate progress and for the Algerian Government to be required, as should happen with all association agreements, to demonstrate the necessary political will to bring about the legislative, administrative and other reforms needed in order to anchor equal opportunities between men and women in the law and include gender mainstreaming in all its policies.
Madam President, I think that, this evening, we all welcome the fact that we have reached a key point in relations between the European Union and Algeria.
I would like to place this report precisely in the context of the partnership.
I would like to say to the Algerian authorities that something important is happening in Kabylia: a party which did not take part in the political elections has presented itself at the administrative elections.
It is therefore absurd to make a comparison between Algeria and the candidate countries, for we are not granting Algeria accession to the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, let us be quite clear about that.
I would just like to say to my good friend Philippe Morillon, 'Philippe, you are wrong.
Because it is obvious that we must exercise our right to intervene.
They have the right to participate in European discussions.
If there is an association agreement, then we have not only the right but also the duty to intervene when massacres are committed.
Here our role is to establish an association agreement, on the one hand, and on the other, to intervene politically in discussions in Algeria, so that Algeria can emerge as a democracy.
Let us adopt this resolution.
The next item is the Commission declaration on the situation in Côte d'Ivoire.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, like the other institutions of the European Union, the Commission has, as you can imagine, been following, the development of events in Côte d'Ivoire very closely since the military uprising began on 19 September.
The Union has condemned the threat to institutional legality that Côte d'Ivoire has been experiencing for almost three weeks.
At the same time, it has reaffirmed the need to find a political solution that would not exclude any of the opposing parties, in the spirit of the process of national reconciliation which Côte d'Ivoire opened after the serious unrest of 2000 and which the Union supported in principle and with financial support.
The Commission supports President Gbagbo and his legitimate government, both put in place by democratic elections.
Nevertheless, since the publication of the Union declaration on 24 September, we have not denied that growing concerns have appeared both on the prospect of a political solution and with regard to human rights.
The agreement in principle to a cease-fire given to the contact group by President Gbagbo and by the rebels would allow for a certain optimism in putting a cease-fire in place, although nothing had been signed on 4 October.
For the time being there has been nothing and government forces resumed fighting against the rebels at Bouaké on Sunday 6 October.
The second point of the Union's declaration of 24 September, with regard to which concerns are again growing, is respect for human rights by the two opposing parties.
This wholehearted support must not, however, be indiscriminate or unconditional.
We should always remember, however, that everything concerning our relations with these developing countries is based on the Cotonou Accord.
Quite honestly, good governance to me is almost more important than pure democracy because if you can get a stable country that is transparent in its doings then that is a big step.
Côte d'Ivoire is a huge country with enormous potential and is one of the lynchpins in West Africa.
The Commission should focus aid onto this area to benefit the Muslims who have not got the wealth of the south.
I was in Ghana two weekends ago when the ECOWAS meeting of the 14 West African states took place.
With the way the Commission is now moving towards regional policies, it is absolutely vital that we get these countries to understand that if they are going to be able to face global prospects as far as trade is concerned, they must pull together as a region.
Written into that new agreement was a peer review.
If this organisation has not fallen at the first fence then it has certainly stumbled.
Madam President, since the coup d'état on 19 September, the whole of the northern territory of Côte d'Ivoire has been plunged into confused military conflict.
Military operations are being carried out even as I speak and fighting is raging in Bouaké, leading us to fear the worst for the civil population caught up in the conflict.
The first challenge is national reconciliation and, to promote this, a broad forum was organised in 2001 and a government of national union was formed, bringing together the major political forces following the elections in July 2002.
The next challenge is economic and social revival, promoted through fundamental social reforms such as free schooling or health insurance for all citizens.
In order to make further progress on these fronts, however, Côte d'Ivoire needs peace.
Europe must exert pressure to bring about a negotiated solution and a peaceful resolution to the crisis.
These attempts have so far failed, but it is indeed difficult to ask a legitimate government to negotiate as equals with armed rebels.
It does not provide for the possibility of dissolving the National Assembly in the event of major crises, and this may leave the way open for an extremely violent political reaction.
Commissioner Barnier, ladies and gentlemen, today, Côte d'Ivoire and the legitimate government of Laurent Gbagbo need the firm support of the European Union that you have outlined and which I shall promote very firmly and in every possible way.
Many people in the region are suffering because we remained passive and did not take a more active role.
As usual, there is a great risk that women and children will bear the brunt of the suffering.
We know that the position of children in Côte d'Ivoire is not as it should be.
Madam President, supporting President Laurent Gbagbo is, ladies and gentlemen, natural.
Parliament invited President Gbagbo to Strasbourg in November 2001 - Nicole Fontaine invited him - and, in doing so, wanted to acknowledge the work carried out by this humanist professor and leader.
We must help him because he symbolises republican legality, because he symbolises political change in an Africa that is greatly in need of it, because he is the symbol that Africa is anchored in a modern democracy.
No constitutionally elected president can negotiate with armed rebels that occupy 40% of his country.
As Commissioner Barnier wished, quite rightly and quite appropriately, this parliamentary mission must be able to arrive within three days in Abidjan and it must strive, on the basis of the resolution that we shall vote upon tomorrow, to play a role and provide Parliament with a role to play.
We have an essential responsibility towards this country, its president and the people of Côte d'Ivoire.
They need our solidarity, Madam President, in the terrible ordeal they are going through, and the European Parliament must therefore have a presence and its presence must be firm.
Madam President, recent events, marked by a number of assassinations in Côte d'Ivoire, are extremely worrying.
The military uprising against the current official government is unjustifiable, despite the worsening economic and political conditions.
It is also clear, however, that the lack of respect for the concept of Ivorian birthright, which came to a head during the presidential elections in 2000, has served only to intensify the climate of hate and violence in the country, and the accusations that neighbouring countries are supporting the rebels could be used to justify the persecution of the immigrant civilian populations.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen representing the Member States, Commissioners, allow me to express my astonishment at the arguments put forward by some of my fellow Members, because, ultimately, the situation in Côte d'Ivoire is so straightforward that we should be in immediate agreement on a number of obvious facts.
The first obvious fact is that Côte d'Ivoire is one of the States that deserves our most vigorous support, as it is showing numerous encouraging signs: its level of growth stands at 3%, it is making relatively rapid progress towards democracy, illustrated by the presidential elections that have been universally welcomed as a step forward, it has a process for forming political groupings in place which, following the forum for national reconciliation, should lead to fully democratic legislative elections, and the current government must be instructed to arrange these as soon as possible.
Yes, Côte d'Ivoire and President Gbagbo deserve the support of all the European States that are concerned about links with Africa.
This is due to historical reasons relating to the links that several European nations have forged with Africa and, consequently, due to the fear, which has often stopped Washington, that any destabilisation of regimes would bolster the Soviet Union.
We are now benefiting from the ambitions of a personality of uncertain nationality, who, in any case, spent most of his life in the United States, to destabilise a country whose situation has been growing stronger with each passing year and which, as a result, became a major partner of Europe.
The country accommodates nearly 5 million immigrants, mainly from the neighbouring countries Burkina Faso, Mali and Senegal.
Many people in the north of Côte d'Ivoire originally come from Burkina.
Together with Mr Ouattara, the peoples in the north felt excluded from the political system.
Côte d'Ivoire has been broken as a nation by the political misuse of religious differences and of the concept of Ivoirité.
I hope that it will display the same level of commitment to prevent even more victims from falling among the civilian population and to prevent the instability in Côte d'Ivoire from degenerating into a regional conflict, the effects of which are incalculable.
Having listened to their comments very carefully, I would also like to thank the various speakers, virtually all of whom have, in general, simply demonstrated that, with regard to this serious issue, we have a common view of the situation and of the ways to resolve it.
The House and all of the Union institutions are concerned, not only by the serious and damaging internal consequences that the current crisis situation in Côte d'Ivoire may have, but also by the destabilisation - as several speakers have said - that the crisis could cause throughout the whole region if a peaceful political solution is not found in the very near future.
Yesterday's televised speech by President Gbagbo calling for an end to the conflict leads us to hope that this peaceful solution will be found very soon in order to prevent unrest in the country and the whole region, which many, including ourselves, fear will happen.
Let us hope therefore, Madam President, that this debate and our combined efforts - and let us spare no effort - will help to restore lasting peace and silence the weapons in Côte d'Ivoire.
The support expressed by the European Parliament for the democratic institutions of Côte d'Ivoire and its president in the wake of the attempted coup, does not mean that Laurent Gbagbo has been given carte blanche to resolve the situation as he sees fit.
On the contrary, he must listen and put in place ceasefire agreements called for by the regional ECOWAS mission.
There can be no military solution to this crisis; the only option that can be contemplated is a political solution involving all opposing parties.
During this final stage of discussions, we still have three points to tackle.
The Council, for its part, wanted to classify natural disasters as priority.
The second point concerns the threshold, or thresholds, for drawing on the Fund.
I am afraid that, as we are quite aware, the smaller States in our Union are at risk of experiencing genuine, serious natural disasters.
Finally, the third point, is maintaining a qualitative criterion to provide for intervention under exceptional circumstances to help a single region affected by a disaster.
It is also for this reason that I proposed in the Commission's first version to retain the quantitative threshold of EUR 1 billion.
The Council is taking a very careful approach to the qualitative criteria.
The Commission wants to be and will be extremely strict in the use of this particular solution.
To sum up, Madam President, with your help and, on this basis, with the help of the rapporteurs, I now hope that an agreement will be reached very swiftly on this proposal for a regulation and on the amendment of the interinstitutional agreement.
The extent of the destruction triggered a great wave of sympathy across Europe, and the desire to be able to provide assistance, also at EU level, to the countries concerned in mastering the countless problems they face quickly became apparent.
As the rapporteur, I view the establishment of this new solidarity instrument as an important complement to the Structural Funds.
The long-term reconstruction of infrastructures and businesses must be left to other instruments, and this EU aid will add to, not replace, the efforts of the countries concerned.
After all, what would we say to the people concerned if the European Union were hit by a disaster such as 11 September in New York, on a scale which claimed a similar numbers of casualties?
The people affected are waiting for assistance from the European Union.
There is now a need to provide assistance as quickly as possible, here and now, in Germany, in Austria, in the Czech Republic and, in future, also in regions which in the past sometimes felt that we, unfortunately, could not really meet their needs adequately.
Madam President, my inaugural speech here in this House in 1994 was on the subject of the serious floods which had caused tremendous damage in Athens at that time, and I have spoken about natural disasters on numerous occasions since.
On numerous occasions, both I and several of my fellow Members have called for the European Union to take action on the ground when major disaster strikes the Member States of the European Union.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, European solidarity is within our grasp!
Now and in the future, aid can be given at once when disasters strike.
It is perhaps auspicious that we find ourselves debating this solidarity on this historic day when the enlargement of the Community has taken on a definite shape, for the Solidarity Fund is already open to the candidate countries and our solidarity is already being extended to them.
The Solidarity Fund is an instrument of aid, one that makes immediate aid possible and whose tasks must be clearly distinguished from those of the Structural Fund.
I would like to highlight two amendments to the Commission draft.
The Commission should start by encouraging or supporting joint exercises by fire brigades, by the agencies for technical aid, by the rescue services and so on in border areas.
In the medium term, this could give rise to a logistically unitary aid network or even a civilian solidarity corps, which could indeed be deployable in the event of disasters outside the Community, for example after an earthquake such as that which recently struck Turkey.
Our group is in favour of establishing the fund.
I would like to ask the Commissioner what the position will be on major disasters taking place in third countries and resulting in suffering for people in the Member States and the applicant countries.
Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to begin my statement on the Commission proposal with a word of congratulations to Commissioner Barnier and his colleagues on the way that the presentation of the proposal for a regulation on the setting up of the Solidarity Fund has actually been very quick.
By doing this, the Commission has in fact done its bit to meet the expectations of the citizens in the European Union's disaster areas for prompt aid.
At the same time, I of course want to give my support to the discussion here in Parliament being a matter of urgency, and I expect the Council to go ahead with its project of direct dialogue to deal with Parliament's amendments to the Commission's draft.
This would make it possible to actually make a start on allocating resources from the Fund with effect from 1 November, following adoption by the General Council on 21 October.
In the same way, as my fellow Members have already said, we are also, as a group, in favour of applying them to damage in excess of EUR 1 billion or 0.5% of GDP, 50% to be paid out at once, a three-month deadline for submission of applications, and the possibility of derogations for regions that are particularly severely affected.
To do so would have given us a more flexible instrument for giving as much help as possible to citizens, businesses and institutions affected even by major disasters.
Lastly, two years ago, I tried to make this House understand even just the psychological importance for the European citizens of being entitled to receive financial assistance from the Union, even if the assistance is only symbolic, at extremely sensitive times such as those when they have lost everything and, in many cases, find themselves having to rebuild their entire lives.
In any case, I would like to thank the Commission and the Council for everything they have done.
However, the amended proposal as it is now before us will in time lead to an untenable financial situation within the framework of the present budgetary agreements.
The way this fund is being organised shows in my view a lack of any sense of responsibility.
Not only do we talk in those terms, but we live in solidarity and set definite dates.
I would remind you that, at its first September sitting, Parliament almost unanimously passed a 19-point resolution on the flood disasters in Austria, Germany, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, that our second sitting found us voting the Budget lines, and that today, in our third part-session, this mini-plenary is creating the legal basis for all this.
We are keeping our promise, and I would also remind you that we have doubled the proposal by the Council and the Commission for EUR 500 million to be allocated to the Fund.
We also call on the Council not to alter our definition of a major disaster - over EUR 1 billion in damage in any one country or over 0.5% of its GDP - as any change would nullify the consistency of our stance.
We call upon the Council to take up the proposal from Parliament and the Commission and make it a resolution.
We can and must tell the victims that, subject to the agreement of the Council on 21 October 2002, we will see to it that money can flow to the affected regions from 1 November onwards.
We rejoice and are also rather proud to be able to show by this example how we not only talk and make promises, but are also capable of fixing dates and acting promptly.
Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the speed with which the Commission has put forward the proposals to set up a solidarity fund and the promptness with which our institution is able to respond to them.
Because the aim of this Fund is to demonstrate in practical terms the solidarity of Europe's citizens towards disaster victims, many Members of Parliament and I myself would like the intervention thresholds to be more generous and to take into account regional characteristics.
I must say that, personally speaking, I believe it is essential that natural disasters are handled separately and as a priority, because, in this case, it is impossible to identify who is responsible and therefore to claim insurance.
It is in these cases that European funds are most needed.
As a final, very brief, point, I would like to reiterate that repairs must go hand in hand with the implementation of a genuine policy of prevention and that of a European civil protection force, in order to give rapid assistance to those European citizens who are in the most difficulty.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the Commissioner, on the speed with which a proposal has been presented to Parliament, the rapporteur, on the important and serious work he has done, which has allowed us to discuss the proposal today and approve it tomorrow, and the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Regional Policy, because their work will pass into the annals of the European Parliament's history.
From experience, I would prefer definitions to be much more specific and much clearer.
Finally, Mr President, please allow me to request that the services of Parliament review Paragraph 3 of Article 3 in Amendment No 13.
The vote within the Committee on Regional Policy was truly significant.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is with mixed feelings of regret and satisfaction that I begin this evening's debate on the creation of a European Union Solidarity Fund.
I feel regret that we were not listened to following the disastrous storms of December 1999, the effects of which are still felt in many regions of France and Europe.
Nonetheless, disasters can be tragic or perceived to be so regardless of their extent, and I believe that this evening, since we are finally putting in place a mechanism that we can call upon when major events take place, we must also consider our presence when smaller-scale troubles, tragedies or natural disasters occur.
I would, however, like to highlight another value which I believe is absolutely central to this initiative - and we have all supported it and contributed to its timely achievement - and that is the political benefit to be gained from it.
I feel, Commissioner, that there have been very few situations or events in which many, very many of our fellow citizens have for the first time felt that Europe is genuinely close to them, that it is truly an elder brother ready to run to their aid when they are in difficulties.
We must never forget that, in some cases, the only experience many of our fellow citizens have had of the European institutions is of a set of rules and regulations, bans and directives.
Let me take this opportunity to remind you of the resolution Parliament passed by a large majority - over 470 votes in favour - at the first September part-session in Strasbourg.
I would like to express my gratitude to the Commissioner, who has so quickly taken on board this initiative by Parliament and submitted proposals, and say that it would be proper for Parliament to process these proposals without delay, even though our rules actually provide for a different procedure, and even though my parliamentarian convictions do not always lead me to favour our all too ready abandonment of our rights.
I think that we in this Parliament have made our advance payment, and I hope that help can be given quickly, and in accordance with definite criteria, in any future disasters such as we have experienced in August, and that the events leading to the abolition, without legal grounds, of the former Disaster Fund do not recur.
This is where a clear dividing line must be drawn between solidarity and subsidiarity.
It is this prompt action that helps the EU to be taken seriously as a Union for its citizens, and to show that the same EU is capable of responding with efficiency and speed to the emergency situations in which they find themselves.
Let me repeat that the damage in Austria amounts to something in the order of EUR 6 to 7 billion.
The new Solidarity Fund is intended to be - indeed, it must be - a powerful instrument in an emergency and, for that reason, one whose use is targeted.
I would like to give my wholehearted support to the rapporteur's proposals, and thus to those of the Committee on the Regions, as regards fixing the threshold at EUR 1 billion or 0.5% of GDP.
The threshold of EUR 3 billion demanded by the Council strikes me as too high.
My especially warm thanks are due to the Commission for coming up with proposals so fast, and especially for the Commissioners having been on the spot with the President of the Commission, and for these funds of EUR 1 billion being available.
I really do hope that we will vote in favour of this report tomorrow and thus enable the funds to get to the victims as soon as possible.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to express my satisfaction regarding the rapid creation of this emergency aid fund that can be called upon in cases of major disasters, since victims have the right to expect the European Union to provide them with solidarity and assistance.
The powerlessness and inertia of the Community in such circumstances have been very badly perceived by the general public, even though efforts were undertaken to bring Europe closer to its citizens.
The Fund will provide emergency aid to any area affected by a major disaster, whatever its status with regard to the Structural Funds.
An additional qualitative criterion stipulates that, in very exception circumstances, namely when the disaster affects a substantial part of the population of the region or the State concerned, the assistance from this Fund can therefore be used.
I knew that we could count on you, Commissioner, for this provision to include the particular case of the outermost regions, whose geographical and climatic situation often causes dramatically poor weather that has devastating consequences on their relative prosperity.
With regard to the articles of the document we are debating today, in relation to the way in which the payment of aid should be made, following the decision to invoke the solidarity instrument, I must say that it is necessary to provide the aid completely and immediately, in order to respond responsibly and coherently to the spirit in which this Fund has been created and which is taken up in the explanatory statement.
I am reminded of conversations I had with Mr Hatzidakis a few days after I arrived at the Commission, the day after the earthquake in the Athens area.
As a French citizen, I was moved, as I was when Germany was buffeted by storms; and there were also those disasters in the Azores ...
I would also like to say to Mr Ferber that in order to use this money effectively and rapidly, to benefit the communities that are expecting it - local representatives and businesses in Germany, Austria and in the two candidate countries that have been affected - we must be able to release these funds.
Mr Ripoll i Martínez mentioned the very specific case of droughts.
The proposal for a regulation lays down very clearly that this fund is designed for the countries of the European Union or those countries with which negotiations for accession have been opened.
I should like, if you do not mind, since I have taken an interest in this matter for a long time, to say that in addition to this fund which I hope will be operational, thanks to you and to the Council, in a few weeks at the latest, there are lessons to be learned.
I therefore believe that we must take a look, in each of our countries, at best practice and the best schemes and perhaps exchange these best practices in the framework of intergovernmental cooperation.
In the proposals we are considering for the future regional and cohesion policy for the future agenda for after 2006 (proposals that I shall be making on behalf of the Commission at the end of 2003), I am determined to make prevention against natural risks and disasters a mandatory priority for the European Structural Funds in all of the Union's regions and in all of our programmes.
We have already made progress since earlier disasters, particularly under the auspices and the authority of my colleague Margot Wallström.
But where there is a will there is a way and I think that it would be a fine and effective idea to go beyond mere coordination and one day to set up a European civil protection force.
Thank you in advance for your vote on this issue tomorrow.
Mr President, I am happy to announce in this plenary sitting that this Parliament's Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has reached full agreement at second reading on the common position on the directive on the energy efficiency of buildings.
Mr President, this important piece of legislation is a direct consequence of the Green Paper on security of supply, which the Commission originally presented, and which gave rise to a lively debate at European level on this issue which is essential to our competitiveness and well-being.
This time the Commission is bravely establishing a binding framework which will undoubtedly lead to an homogenisation of best practices in the fifteen Member States.
Mr President, I must also express my particular satisfaction, which is shared by the whole of the Industry Committee, with the Council's receptiveness to all of Parliament's contributions: the principle of individual charging, differentiated treatment between existing buildings and new buildings, the clear definition of exemptions, special attention to social housing, the growing importance of passive cooling in southern countries, where air conditioning systems are increasingly contributing to our energy consumption, and, of course, the emphasis on incentive mechanisms rather than penalties.
In order to assess the importance of this piece of legislation we must bear in mind that 40% of the Union's energy expenditure is consumed in buildings, which in quantitative terms means EUR 100 000 million per year; 2.5 % of our total imports and 0.5 % of our Gross Domestic Product.
And therefore, in the end, as we usually do in the European institutions, we reached a compromise agreement and this additional period was set at three years.
I therefore believe, Mr President, that we can be very satisfied and we can congratulate the Commissioner and her team on this great contribution to the Union's energy policy, all my colleagues in the Industry Committee for the great support I have received, the secretariat of the committee for their excellent technical work and, as I said before, we must thank the Council for their receptiveness.
This initiative has arisen in the context of the debate on the Green Paper, and furthermore it responds to both the wishes of Parliament and the conclusions of the Council, which demanded actions to improve energy efficiency, specifically in buildings, with the aim of taking advantage of the potential for energy savings.
Secondly, the establishment of minimum requirements for energy performance and their application in new buildings as a general rule, with certain small exceptions, and in existing buildings of more than one thousand square metres when these are subject to significant renovation.
Furthermore, the certification of the energy performance of buildings at the point of construction, sale or rent, because another important element is the rights of consumers who rent an apartment, house or building without knowing what the real cost of energy for that building will eventually be.
Let us remember that Parliament established its position at first reading in February 2002 and the great majority of its amendments have been included in the common position.
These amendments suggested by Parliament - I insist - have improved the Commission's original text, without changing its objective, and in some cases have added new important elements such as the requirement in terms of assessment and information.
I believe that the compromise which has finally been achieved, three years for transposition into national legislations, plus another three to make its full application obligatory, is reasonable.
The Commission believes that the five amendments presented, from No 8 to No 12, are generally faithful to the spirit of the Commission's original proposal, since an acceptable and feasible balance has been achieved in the definition of the fields of work, typology and thresholds for action established in the Commission's proposal.
I would like once again to thank Parliament, the committee and the rapporteur because I believe we have reached an agreement precisely thanks to this will to find a balance between the positions of Parliament and of the Council, on the basis of the Commission's proposal.
I hope that this House can vote to approve this text at tomorrow's sitting, and that it can therefore be applied in the Member States as soon as possible.
It will thereby contribute to improving the European Union's energy efficiency in an effective way, in accordance with our international commitments.
The particular notice system that we wish to put in place will enable us not only to keep citizens informed about this energy performance, but also to give public authorities an exemplary role in the field.
I thank both the Commission and the Council which have, fortunately, abandoned the approach of voluntary measures in favour of that of a genuine piece of European legislation, which will alone guarantee results as well as uniform implementation.
We have aimed at the target of improved energy efficiency in buildings for some years, in the climate change programme amongst others.
The rapporteur was correct to point out that in view of the Kyoto timetable, we must be careful not to invalidate the directive by a long transition period, particularly for certification in specific areas.
Finally, I would like to add my voice to those who plea that we do something realistic about energy savings in Parliament buildings and in EU buildings in general.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
We are prepared, however, within the framework of the 2003 work programme, to examine whether OLAF has sufficient human and financial resources at its disposal to effectively perform the duties transferred to it.
I would like to tell the Commissioner without any equivocation that, on this issue, we in Parliament are standing alongside the Commission, but we need openness, and, when it comes down to it, we also need transparency, if we are to be able to work together on these problems.
The Commission's initiative both forms an important part of the work of reform as a whole and has a part to play in the Commission's overall strategy for the protection of financial interests.
I would like to enlarge on what you mentioned in that context; on the one hand new draft laws, and on the other, the checking of laws already in force.
That, of course, again raises the question of the human resources available.
Let me, however, point out that making legislation fraudproof is not just a matter for the Commission, but legislators are also of course obliged, for their part, to treat this principle as a decisive criterion when framing laws.
We have just had the hearing on the European Public Prosecutor, and will take this opportunity to thank Parliament for the great support it has given.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, not only does combating fraud seem to be becoming an ongoing task in the EU, but the Commission is also showing a great deal of imagination when it comes to the ways and means, and it is again showing its capacity for fantasy with this communication on the fraudproofing of legislation and contract management - a high-sounding title in very truth.
The Commission's announcement of its slogan 'Zero Tolerance for Fraud and Irregularities' has not prevented the officially-acknowledged fraud figures for 2000 from being higher than ever, and even those for 2001 from being, at EUR 1.25 billion, well above the average for previous years.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
I am privileged to present this report on behalf of my colleague from the Fisheries Committee, Michael Holmes.
Firstly, I congratulate Mr Holmes on his excellent work in compiling this report.
We are dealing with this issue against a background of collapsing fish stocks throughout the European Union.
Indeed, at the recent World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, the issue of over-fishing in international waters was recognised by countries around the world.
However, we know that these fish live at great depths - over 1 200 metres - and we know that they are slow-maturing, not reaching breeding age until they are at least 25 years old.
We also know that they have a very low reproductive capacity, and that there are around 87 different species of fish swimming together at these great depths, of which only around eight are edible or marketable.
Out of every 100 tonnes of fish caught, 90 tonnes are being thrown back dead into the water.
If this House votes tomorrow for the application of TACs and quotas to these deepwater stocks, then I can predict with some confidence that this valuable fishery will be destroyed perhaps within as little as five years.
That is why this is also the approach favoured by the scientists and by the fishing communities on whose future the survival of these stocks depends.
Needless to say, these ideas are not favoured by those Member States whose attitude to fishing is based on a short-term, dash-for-profit philosophy.
Stocks of deep-sea fish are, however, very sensitive in biological terms, as they have a very low breeding rate and grow very slowly - substantially more slowly than other types of fish.
The opinions that we have received also state that TACs and quotas can be only a first step towards protecting deep-sea species.
Secondly, we have to introduce better supervision in order to get more reliable data.
So I hope that Parliament will endorse these measures.
I would like to wait until after the debate to say something about the amendments and let you know what position the Commission takes on them.
We all agree, furthermore, that it is crucial to protect these species, these population units, from the heightened exploitation to which they have been subject in the last few years.
In fact, the scarcity of fish on the continental shelf and in the major fishing grounds has caused many vessels and many fishermen to turn to these species that have survived or that have been largely ignored until now, and which are, consequently, on the way to suffering total despoliation.
Consequently, we must do everything that can be done, even though we cannot be certain about the result and the efficiency of this action, to protect these fish species, these dozens and dozens of species, the habits of some of which may even be unknown or almost unknown.
If these amendments are adopted by Parliament, the ELDR will vote against the proposal as a whole.
The ELDR has tabled three amendments of its own.
Amendment No 8 calls for an economic and operational impact assessment in relation to the expected loss of revenue and effort displacement resulting from the implementation of the regulation.
Amendment No 9 seeks to outlaw the use of fixed gill nets in this fishery as they risk inflicting substantial unintended mortality on heavily depleted stocks.
The ELDR is concerned that Amendment No 13 may delay the implementation of the management measures and also believes that Amendment No 15 could potentially have a negative impact on the environment.
I will also support Amendment No 15 as it represents a fairer basis for the distribution of quotas.
Finally, I would like to express, on behalf of the ELDR, a profound dissatisfaction that the Council has effectively taken a decision on this dossier without awaiting the opinion of Parliament.
At the same time, we feel that the conclusions of the negotiations over the detail of the management regime put in place are much too weak.
This is what will be effective in the long term.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the move that led to the proposal for a regulation that we are debating this evening is exemplary and deserves thorough consideration when it comes to updating the common fisheries policy.
Around fifteen years ago, the French fishermen of Boulogne-sur-Mer began fishing for and selling certain species of fish living beyond the continental shelf in the deep trench, which is more than 800 metres deep.
It was at the request of these professional fishermen that a scientific research institute, Ifremer, started to take a close interest in the biology of these species and particularly in their biological cycle.
Without the political agreement reached at the Fisheries Council of last June, it is unlikely that we would now have these two proposals for regulations on fishing deep-water stocks.
The way in which these regulations have come to exist is exemplary for more than one reason.
It illustrates first of all the fact that fishermen are of course the main people concerned and the main actors when it comes to establishing rules for sustainable fishing.
The Commission has a lot to answer for in this, but the main appeal that I make at this stage is not for recrimination but for the proposal to be reconsidered.
I urge this House and also the Commission to support the amendments in the name of the ELDR Group and those in my name which are signed by various members of the four largest groups in this House.
Finally, the social and economic implications of any final proposal must be fully assessed and measured for compensation provided where appropriate and without discrimination between fishermen in different Member States.
The first amendment is one that the Commission can accept.
Amendment No 6 is, in my view, a good idea, and I am willing to provide for revision of the measures in 2005.
I cannot accept Amendment No 9 as at present drafted, as no scientific evaluations have been submitted to us demanding a ban on fixed gillnets, but I will take up your suggestion in this regard and ask ICES for a scientific evaluation of whether and for which areas such a ban on fixed gillnets might be a sensible conservation measure.
The same is true of Amendment No 14, which I cannot accept either.
The debate is closed.
