The protection and welfare of animals 2006-2010 (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Jeggle, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the protection and welfare of animals in the period 2006 to 2010.
The report I drew up on this Communication as rapporteur for this House was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 12 September.
Precise scientifically based animal-protection indicators are the most reliable basis for the further development of viable animal protection.
There are 14 amendments.
I hope that he will also speak about the deficiencies in agricultural products imported into the EU from Brazil that have been detected once again by the EU Food and Veterinary Office.
Let me acknowledge in particular the efforts of Mrs Jeggle on this important initiative.
They have all been very vocal in calling for higher standards of protection for animals, not just in the EU but worldwide.
The action plan seeks to promote a broad-based approach to animal welfare involving all stakeholders, so that everyone plays their part.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety. - (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every day, millions of animals suffer, be it in the meat industry's animal factories, in European slaughterhouses or in the course of transport or painful animal experiments.
In the opinion we have drafted, we demand, for example, that animals should have the right to natural behaviour, that the overproduction of meat should be prevented, that all hens should be entitled to range freely by 2016 at the latest, that sows should have the right to roam freely throughout their life cycle and that a maximum time limit of eight hours should be introduced for the transport of animals.
It is thus important for us to influence this report as much as possible.
I would therefore call on you to vote down the wordings in recital G and in paragraphs 51, 52, 53 and 59.
I would also call on you to vote in favour of, for example, Amendments 11 and 12, now happily also supported by Mrs Jeggle.
If you vote in this way, we can finally obtain an action plan that makes life much better for the hundreds of millions of animals in the EU.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Jeggle, for this sound, objective, professional report.
All animals are living beings, and all have a right to be kept in conditions appropriate to their species, be it in zoos or homes or as pets.
Being a farmer who ran a farm for more than 30 years and kept animals there, I of all people know how important it is that animals be kept in conditions appropriate to their species.
All animals are living beings, as I have already said, and that is why I should like, in retrospect, to thank Mrs Jeggle most sincerely once more for her report.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank Mrs Jeggle for her excellent report.
The measures that we are adopting within the European Union must also be respected in all those countries from which we import meat.
Consumers have the power to determine whether to boost and support those farmers in Europe to whom animal protection, keeping animals in conditions appropriate to their species and healthy foodstuffs are important, or whether to force our farmers to participate in global dumping, with rock-bottom standards and prices.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Mr President, first of all, let me say that I warmly welcome the animal welfare action plan.
Mahatma Gandhi once said that civilisation in a society can be gauged by the way it treats its animals.
For this reason everything must be done to ensure that only food of a high standard enters the common market.
As we know, the EU expressed its concern about dog, bull and cock fighting back in 2003 - and I am pleased to note that this is also reflected in the present document.
Finally, the abolition of export subsidies for animal transport would not only show more compassion for animals, but also protect the environment and help the people who suffer as a result of transit traffic. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, I must congratulate the Commission on this proposal, and in particular I must congratulate Mrs Jeggle on this wonderful report and the great work that she has done.
I would like to thank Mrs Jeggle and the whole of my political group, which has understood this and is going to ask that that word be removed from that paragraph. (ES) Mr President, animal welfare, which has been included in the CAP since the last reform, is already an achievement for European agriculture, though, according to the results of the special Eurobarometer carried out in 2005 on this issue, Europeans are unaware of the efforts being made by our producers and do not therefore appreciate them, despite the fact that we have the most protective legislation.
The European Commission has already accepted that consumers need to be better informed on this issue if we want the efforts made by our farmers to be appreciated.
With regard to paragraph 71, I would like to say that my group is of course going to vote against that paragraph, amongst other things, and in particular because it contains a series of technical errors and involves a debate that is completely out of place here, a debate that is tarnishing the most important aspects of this report and, above all - I must say - the excellent work of the rapporteur, Mrs Jeggle, who has been efficient and conscientious and has adopted a very balanced approach.
The third reason why I welcome this report is that it draws particular attention to the import of products from outside of the European Union.
After all, we may have fine rules and regulations, but if we cannot carry out any monitoring on Europe's external borders, then they will remain immaterial; it is essential that this House should use the Jeggle report to put this back on the agenda. (PL) Mr President, if animals could speak I am sure they would thank the rapporteur Mrs Jeggle for standing up for them.
It is not pigs, but an agricultural policy like this that should be castrated.
So, Mr Titford, it was not the European Union that had a problem with foot-and-mouth disease: it was the UK Government. (EL) Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report.
The great Indian leader, Ghandi, said that when man treats animals well he demonstrates his humanity and his higher feelings.
However, I would like to highlight a delicate and important point which has to do with livestock farming, which has to do with man.
It disrupts the entire ecosystem in the mountains and forests of Europe and the rest of the world. (ES) Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Jeggle, for her work.
Therefore, the action plan does not foresee any measures in this regard.
The debate is closed.
Finally, as a member of the Committee on International Trade, I would place particular emphasis on establishing internationally recognised animal welfare standards for trade. (SV) Proper animal protection is a necessity in a modern society.
