The European Interest: succeeding in the age of globalisation (debate) Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see that two of the group chairs are here at least.
The prospects for both economic and cultural enrichment are huge, but the risks of various types of new global imbalance are also huge.
Above all, coming to terms with and regulating globalisation is a key issue for our democracies and for the very concept of effective democracy: will we be able to keep political control of the fundamental options in economic governance and so many other aspects of our life in the hands of our people and our elected representatives?
I firmly believe that in various crucial areas we Europeans will be effective only if we are capable of providing new collective political solutions to the most serious problems of our time, such as economic growth and job creation, environmental protection, energy, migration and the fight against terrorism.
The European Union has been updating its internal policies to ensure competitiveness and fair and sustainable development.
Working together, the EU and its Member States have shown that they can address common problems and common challenges by harnessing their experience of 50 years of integration.
The new Treaty of Lisbon provides more effective and more transparent institutional conditions for the EU to play its role in the world.
The challenge is to preserve and strengthen what we have achieved in that time and to find ways of defending our interests and projecting our common values beyond our borders.
The Commission communication under discussion today is an excellent starting point for the debate and provided the basis for the discussion between the Heads of State and Government at the Lisbon informal meeting on 19 October.
The EU has global responsibilities and must be better prepared to face globalisation through a strategic, coherent and determined approach at global level.
Migration has a fundamental role to play in the context of globalisation by helping to increase growth potential and facilitate adjustments.
According to a recent report, submitted to the Council this week, on this situation's effects on the mobility of labour, EU demographic growth is increasingly supported by migration flows, and note should be taken of the decisive way these help to reinforce the flexibility required to face crises and to offset low levels of intraregional mobility.
In this globalised context the external dimension of the Lisbon Strategy must be reinforced and developed, projecting the EU's political and economic goals and social and environmental standards beyond its borders.
As you know, this was the aspect that was addressed in the discussion of the Heads of State and Government at the Lisbon informal meeting, where we developed issues relating to financial market instability and climate change in particular.
We are counting on the European Parliament's support, as we always have done, to promote and develop EU and national action that is agreed at global level and that allows Europe to assume its responsibilities in the global context and to succeed in meeting future challenges.
We sometimes tend to forget what Europe means for so many people in this globalised world.
As you know, I am personally convinced that the 21st century European agenda must be organised largely around the theme of globalisation, while naturally maintaining the values and principles that have always informed the European project.
Globalisation, however, must also be seen as an opportunity for Europe to defend and assert its interests in this increasingly interdependent world.
I am therefore very pleased to be taking part in the debate on this issue organised by the European Parliament.
I was particularly encouraged by the stimulating consensus reached around our ideas on how to respond to globalisation.
That would be an excellent way to consolidate this consensus, which must also be promoted here in the European Parliament by the drafting of a joint motion for a resolution on such an important issue.
A new interest has in fact arisen in the last few months: turbulence on the financial markets has shown how the health of the European economy is linked to global developments, while extreme climate conditions have shown how serious the potential consequences of climate change are and how a response to this problem is increasingly urgent.
We have pioneered innovative ways of tackling new problems - just look at emissions trading - and we have some clear ground rules which have served us well.
First, we have a responsibility to protect our citizens without being protectionist.
We should target our policies so that others take the same route as us, to open up.
Third, there is much to be gained from a rules-based system, and the experience of the European Union leaves it uniquely well placed to provide a good basis for regulation at global level - a concrete way to shape globalisation.
That is why I really believe that we are better equipped than any other entity in the world to shape globalisation - not to impose, but to propose our model for this globalisation phase we are now entering.
We have also refocused the Union's financial instruments on growth and jobs.
Despite current concerns, performance has improved: almost 6.5 million extra jobs have been created in the European Union of 27 in the last two years; 8 million are expected to be created over the period 2007-2009.
The Lisbon reforms have undoubtedly reinforced the growth potential of the European economy.
The four priority areas agreed in 2006 provide the right framework for Lisbon: research and innovation; a better business environment (fighting red tape and promoting better conditions for investment); greater employability, and the great issues of energy and climate change.
There are 23 million SMEs in Europe.
So that is why I believe all those areas taken together can create a virtuous circle helping all our goals at once.
More investment in education and training for all ages is the best weapon against inequality and social exclusion and, as I said earlier, not everybody is winning from globalisation.
If we want to be sure of the support of European Union citizens for our agenda, we should, in due course, take in the concerns regarding the social dimension.
In fact, at the European informal Council in Lisbon, we received very good news about that agreement between the European social partners.
We also need to do more to ensure that the Lisbon Strategy progresses at an even pace in all Member States: a slower pace of reform in one Member State has obvious knock-ons in the others.
The link between globalisation and Lisbon gives us an excellent opportunity to show how, in this day and age, the European economic agenda is not an optional extra: it is the key to unlocking a successful future for Europe.
Economic reform, a global vision, a low-carbon economy: these are interlocking goals that need to be pursued in parallel, and only the European Union can provide the reach and coherence that Europe needs so much.
I really believe that, in the age of globalisation, the world also needs a more committed Europe, with our interests being protected and defended but also with our values - the values of freedom and solidarity - being sustained in this globalisation age. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, my dear Hans-Gert; President-in-Office of the Council, Manuel Lobo Antunes; Mr President of the Commission, José Manuel Barroso, in the eyes of our fellow citizens, globalisation is no abstract concept.
The European Union has a role to play in exporting its know-how and helping to raise the production and quality-control standards of its partners.
To meet the external challenges we must, firstly, strengthen our own single market by investing more in research and development and, secondly, ensure better coordination of research and innovation among the Member States.
While globalisation offers new opportunities, it also demands adaptation work, for example in terms of education and training throughout people's working lives.
Until it has a common policy for energy security and environmental security, the European Union will remain vulnerable.
We need a European energy policy to guarantee us security of supply and sustainable growth in this sector.
All discussion of these issues must be transparent, with a view to raising people's awareness and securing their support for what we undertake.
The negotiations on the resolution to be adopted today have shown that there is a profound difference, in many areas a gulf, between the conceptions on the right of this House and what we in the Socialist Group want.
Macroeconomic policy coordination, to use the jargon, or what we might also call common economic and fiscal policy, must be guided by the principles of social policy.
Economic progress in Europe must result in greater social stability.
The EU must ensure that global economic progress leads to greater equality of rights and opportunities in the world.
Economic progress is the prerequisite for social security - not the other way round, as we have heard it suggested in a few speeches in this House.
The idea that less social security in Europe should be the source of economic progress is an absolute aberration.
Anyone who believes the EU can be used to erode achievements in the field of social policy behind the smokescreen of globalisation, as it were, is mistaken.
Economic growth and social welfare must go hand in hand - that is the crucial point, and it highlights the error of right-wing politics in Europe.
There are some good points, and we support them, but there are also quite a few that we need to probe thoroughly.
So let us make a start with these rules in Europe.
In conclusion, Mr President - Hans-Gert - ladies and gentlemen, let me say that the issue we are discussing today, namely how we should line up to face the challenge of globalisation and what influence Europe, by which I mean institutionalised Europe - you in the Commission and we in Parliament - can actually wield in pursuit of these ambitious goals, is also the measure by which the voters will judge us.
If we keep confining ourselves to general debates where we describe exactly what we want but they are not followed up with concrete legislative measures here and in the Member States, the whole exercise will be pointless.
India, China and Brazil have caught the wave of opportunity and they are riding it high, while too much of Europe fears the wave crashing over it.
And yet the visionaries see the need for reform and they have written it into the new European Socialist manifesto, adopted appropriately in Oporto.
The division in our politics is no longer between left and right over economic policy but between those who respond to global challenges by pulling up the drawbridge and those who - with Liberal Democrats - advocate the open society.
Indeed, it may even prise apart and refashion Europe's political families.
I await your single market review, to see how you will drive growth and jobs in difficult terrain, and your legal migration policy, hoping it encompasses the concerns of the countries of origin.
We believe, too, that social health and economic vitality are both important.
So the Union must bring together the Lisbon agenda with its focus on competitiveness, the Cardiff agenda with its focus on social rights, and the Gothenburg agenda with its focus on the environment.
That means stopping the hypocrisy of trade tariffs and fashioning a fair deal for developing countries in Doha; clinching a contract on carbon emissions in Bali, using our collective influence to get America on board; and building an international approach to financial markets, focusing on regulatory cooperation, convergence of standards and equivalence of rules.
Individual European Union countries should not only understand this, they also need to respond to these changes in a practical manner.
On the other hand, these political steps should not lead to the loss of national identity.
I hope that today's debate will help to change the way that we think about globalisation in a European perspective.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I think that what we have seen in this particular communication is an absolute failure of imagination, given the seriousness of the situation that we face.
The WTO prioritises trade over production methods, over anything else that gives us the right to say that we have problems with the way in which goods are produced because this does not meet our standards.
And we need to look at the social inclusion side again.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my disappointment over the final version of the draft resolution.
In its motion for a resolution our political group focused on the following facts in particular: - The fight against poverty, since the statistics show that around 80 million people in the European Union have a disposable income of less than 60% of the national equalised median income; - We stressed the need for more effective means of ensuring citizens' rights, such as access to quality and well-paid employment, and minimum social standards; - Regarding the Lisbon Strategy we stressed that a new integrated strategy for sustainability and solidarity is needed to replace the current Lisbon Strategy and provide an effective implementation tool.
Yesterday some political groups agreed on a joint resolution and completely ignored our group's proposal.
Furthermore, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the single market, on its own, is not a guarantee for Europe's success in the globalisation development process.
The Council has declared that it finds competitiveness to be very important but currently there are new economies in the European Union, which are fragile and lack competitiveness even on the internal market.
Therefore how can we protect the interests of the European citizens if we do not use some forms of protectionism?
The open society that Graham Watson is talking about is simply traitorous to the weaker economies in the EU.
In this context, a future development of globalisation with weak economies that have big trade deficit and are not competitive even on the internal market would continue to pressurize these economies up to the point of breakdown and these economies which have been fighting to embark on a normal way of development would disintegrate as houses of cards. (CS) (The beginning of the speech was inaudible) ...
Fulfilling the Lisbon Agenda is central to Europe's future prosperity and we need to make sure that we finally secure a deal in the World Trade talks.
We need to reform the common agricultural policy and we must give a fair deal not only to our own farmers but to those in the developing world.
We must push further and faster on the deregulation agenda, freeing business and industry to compete on competitive terms with China and India, and we must make real progress supporting Chancellor Merkel's efforts to create a transatlantic common market.
And in order to do so, he said, we must invest in people, in growth, in jobs, in energy security, in fighting climate change and in giving consumers a fairer deal.
Of course, in financial services and accounting, European standards are fast becoming global standards and I am proud of that.
In the fight against poverty we must ensure that the programmes of the EU are credible, cost-effective and targeted.
We need to enhance the trading opportunities for the developing world and make a real difference in Africa.
We should be proud of our achievements, but there are many opportunities still for us to seize. (FR) Mr President, in negotiating the motion for a resolution on the challenge of globalisation, I saw very clearly the extent of the divide between left and right in this House.
Yes, indeed, we need more growth and more job creation, driven by better coordination and more research and development and, yes indeed, we need to face new social realities.
We intend to join with the mayors, the Committee of the Regions, the Economic and Social Committee and the trade unions in a political struggle for a Europe with a stronger social dimension, in which public services have priority. (Applause) (LT) Many EU citizens are worried about the changes in their living environment as a consequence of globalisation and our duty as politicians is to provide the answer.
Very often Parliament encourages the Member States to prepare a common strategy, but I would like to point out that we should start with ourselves.
Our foreign policy through the external dimension of the Lisbon Strategy should be active.
We should abandon the tendency to support certain people; our role should be that of creating opportunities for them to earn a living.
That is why it would be wise to invest in the social spheres which in the future would help accumulate intellectual capital and would ensure an increase in productivity.
We need to move forward in the world trade talks in the fields of industry, trade, and services.
The average tariff 4% in force in the EU stands at 4%, whereas the equivalent rate in Asia and South America is 30%.
Globalisation opens new opportunities, but it also creates new threats.
It is up to us how we make use of it.
Europe is faced with the temptation to undermine the rights of its own nations in order to increase the role played by its cosmopolitan elites in the running of the world.
Europe's success will be to show other peoples and nations in the world how to create a situation of freedom and dignity for the citizen.
Here in the North we see the impact in corporate relocations, job losses and financial destabilisation of our social systems, and in the risk - as our population ages and we face the cost of caring for the very elderly - that Europe will turn into a geriatric Rwanda, with all the implications of that in terms of disregard for human life and violation of human rights.
It is the Harry Potter answer to globalisation.
Utter mumbo-jumbo!
Just two weeks ago in Limavady, in my constituency, Seagate Technology announced its closure with 960 job losses, leaving that small town reeling.
Everyone in this Chamber knows that economic freedom, increased prosperity and the social model are mutually compatible.
In fact, all countries benefit from globalisation: the developing countries, the newly industrialised countries and even those developing countries with an overextravagant government apparatus that taxpayers can no longer afford.
The social dimension must again feature in the integrated guidelines.
Those who hold the key to the Lisbon Strategy's success, namely the Member States, must come up with the resources to achieve the aims they have set.
Good regulation is not enough to ensure future economic growth in the European Union.
The effects of economic migration from low labour cost countries to high labour cost countries are not enough.
This is all very well, but these are not the causes of growth, but its result.
The consequences are devastating for local communities and those local communities, as we have already heard, are the key to jobs and growth, the very purpose of the Lisbon Agenda.
The reality is that the Lisbon Treaty confirms the logic of the existing treaties, which bar us from steering the course of the euro, from protecting our markets and from standing up for ourselves in global trade negotiations.
Protocol No 6, and also Articles 3 and 4 of the EC Treaty, reinforce their dogmatic conception of unfettered competition, heedless of national interests, unbridled by borders and careless of democracy.
The Commission must help us by resolving a contradiction.
If we take today's debate as the cover page, the introduction, we are dealing here with enormous challenges: globalisation, climate change, the issue of the international financial markets - the formidable challenges that face us in each of the Member States.
These are the practical challenges to which we want to respond. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that there have been speakers in this debate as well who have placed economic freedom in opposition to the assurance and protection of social rights and the fight against poverty.
That opposition between economic freedom and social rights smacks of the last century and is no longer current in the politics of our Europe.
From the point of view of social rights, however, what is now stopping us from helping the poorest in our countries are old social security systems geared towards corporations and organised work which do not help the unemployed and those who continue to be outside social guarantees and social protection.
In my country, Italy, we have a system which more or less forces people to retire at the age of 58 or 59, when at the same time only 20% of the unemployed have any social protection.
For me, the best illustration for our debate is the voice of the Canadian philosopher John Ralston Saul.
The truth is that these policies of intensified competition aggravate the inequalities in wealth and manufacturing power, and only the European Commission can see any enhancement of prosperity or elimination of unequal development among the EU Member States.
We are reaping definite benefits from globalisation.
The European Union has an important role to play in shaping globalisation.
Non-tariff barriers and other obstacles to trade are unacceptable.
If we and the Commission perform these tasks, we shall truly be able to use and shape the globalisation process to ensure that people in general can continue to live their lives in freedom and prosperity. (PT) Succeeding in the age of globalisation is the great challenge facing the European Union.
The question is, how can competitiveness be reconciled with social cohesion, or in other words, globalisation with regulation.
We must understand what is happening with China and India.
In 2006, however, TATA's automobile-manufacturing subsidiary had a higher stock exchange value than General Motors, while no-one had heard of the MITTAL Group until it launched a hostile takeover bid against ARCELOR, triggering panic in Paris, Brussels and Luxembourg.
Europe must be firm and must demand reciprocity in international trade, but must not systematically adopt protectionist policies.
The EU can only achieve its objective by being active and organised on the world stage, and this is particularly true of migration.
But still there is no comprehensive EU policy on legal as well as illegal immigration, and on integration.
That is also part of globalisation. (PL) Madam President, honourable colleagues in the Council and Commission, just as, in the life of man, childhood is followed by a period of adolescence, so globalisation appears to be a natural stage in the development of humanity and the next challenge for it.
In this difficult debate on this ever-changing and unfamiliar issue I would like to say that, paradoxically, all the preceding speakers from both the left and right of the House were correct to a considerable degree.
Mr Barroso was quite right to say that the European Union can and should propose to the world a balanced and just model for globalisation. - (EL) Madam President, the topic of today's discussion is misconceived.
Success in the age of globalisation safeguards neither European interests nor the prosperity of workers in EU countries, but only the interests of capital.
I do believe that we have a huge opportunity if we can embrace it.
Be very careful about the legislation you put in place which damages European opportunities. (FR) Madam President, Presidents of the Commission and the Council, we have just heard Mr Barroso tell us that the European Union is uniquely well placed to provide a good basis for regulation at global level.
We need to do this firstly because, at the European Council last March, the Heads of State and Government adopted the best possible strategy for enabling the European Union to address globalisation and the challenges of energy supply and climate change.
Let us invest in the technologies of the future, and the future will be ours. (PL) Madam President, the economy should be for the benefit of the people and not the other way round.
We have to focus on SMEs in particular.
I agree that we should invest in research and development, that we should make more long-term investments in a good environment and that we should invest in people and lifelong learning, but what the Commission is forgetting - the error in the Commission's document - is that we are neglecting the social dimension.
Developments in Europe today point towards good growth and more jobs, but also greater exclusion, bigger gulfs and more insecure jobs - more jobs, not least in Germany, on which you cannot support yourself and you need to receive social security benefits to supplement your pay.
We must link growth and employment with a social dimension which reduces the gaps between people and regions in Europe.
In our resolution we have reached agreement that we want to have new guidelines which integrate the social dimension and, of course, also deal with the issues of security in change and 'flexicurity'.
This has brought us not only prosperity but also stable democracy.
Madam President, Europe's competitiveness is better served by an attitude of openness towards the world, so I think it is important to give greater priority to opening up economic markets in non-EU countries, more specifically in the emerging industrial countries such as India, Brazil and China, because the enormous potential for growth of those markets represents an opportunity for European companies and an opportunity for the European economy.
Innovation in the field of culture should not be a luxury enjoyed by a few multinational companies, but a horizontal policy for SMEs.
European citizens are fearful.
We must educate them, true, but not by stating that we need a policy at EU level to face the challenge of a globalised economy.
The EU has unique power at supranational level to shape things and to challenge excesses.
In July, in the Financial Times it said: 'Brussels is the regulatory capital of the world and cannot be ignored from Washington to Tokyo'.
The EU is absolutely about meeting the challenges.
It is a challenge in the sense that opening-up means more growth, more welfare and more employment, and this is something we must explain to European citizens.
Protecting citizens is not necessary when they are the protagonists of their own economic growth and their own well-being.
We must hand that ability back to the people and we must therefore also conduct an exercise in self-criticism in the European Union.
This is because we in the European Union are not doing what we must when our growth is inadequate, when we also have our share of responsibility for the crisis in world financial markets and, in short, when we do not do everything we must at home, on our own doorstep, to foster economic growth among small and medium-sized enterprises and create more employment, because we need much more employment than the process of opening up the economy will be able to provide.
I am in favour of four areas of activity.
Secondly, the business environment, and this means a fully open and free internal market without monopolies, with open competition, less regulation and less bureaucracy, which is something that the Vice-President of the Commission, Günter Verheugen, is fighting for so courageously.
Fourthly and finally, energy and climate change, which means a common energy policy, which I believe is something we are all aware of, and reductions of emissions.
As regards a reduction of emissions in the EU - yes, I am in favour, but I am also in favour of an EU that is politically strong and this means full ratification of the European Treaty as quickly as possible.
Now, though, we need to open a new chapter, a chapter of looking outwards, of rising to the challenges of globalisation.
Climate change and migration are, in my view, the two biggest, but we need to maintain high growth and jobs.
If we really are to deal with globalisation, we need a radical and fundamental shift, not only in our policies but in our entire thinking in the European Union.
We have to ensure that Member States fulfil their promises, because we have an EU framework.
What we do not have are 27 Member States that all do as they say they are going to do, and our focus must now be on delivering on promises and fulfilling all the potential that the EU has. (DE) Madam President, sum up globalisation in two minutes - well, here goes!
Many people are critical of globalisation, but if we asked them whether they agreed that their local companies should not be allowed to serve the world market any more, they would say 'no'.
That is the purpose, for instance, of eliminating red tape, which is an important objective both for Commissioner Verheugen and for Europe.
In short, our actions need to be rigorously consistent in Europe, and it is our mission to shape Europe.
Regrettably, Commissioner McCreevy, who is responsible for these matters, has not yet taken the lead in the movement to rein in the Americans and other markets, and so Europe is lagging behind.
Nevertheless, I firmly believe that Europe is well prepared for globalisation.
Whether or not globalisation takes place is not determined in Brussels or Strasbourg. (HU) Thank you, Madam President.
In 2000 we started to familiarise ourselves with competitiveness and solidarity in the strategy for work and workers, and in the Lisbon Strategy.
Ladies and gentlemen, the labour market and the capital that demands a return is ruthlessly selective, and new human resources require investment at a price greater than capital, whose movement is ever easier, can acquire labour.
The launch of the integrated guideline package was supposed to lead to a balanced delivery of the economic, social and sustainability strands of the Lisbon process but in practice, when it comes to the employment guidelines, it has been a case not of integration but of subordination.
The employment guidelines have become virtually invisible, hiding the very wide variability in Member State performance against the range of indicators and targets they are supposed to meet under the employment strategy on youth unemployment, integration of older workers - a range of factors.
The employment strategy therefore needs to be given much greater visibility in the next Lisbon cycle.
In our work on flexicurity in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs we make clear that both employment security and job security are important.
What a fast changing flexible firm needs - a firm changing its production line every six months, its IT configuration every four months - is an adaptable, skilled, loyal and dedicated workforce, not a casualised and fragmented labour market.
The second point concerns SMEs.
There is a reference to a wide range of new proposals for the end of 2008.
I recognise that the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions exist - although I am never clear why - but please do not elevate them to the same level as the two codecision institutions. (SK) The phenomenon of globalisation is becoming more and more perceivable.
In such a situation, the European Union has to react fairly quickly and determine whether Europe's competitiveness has not only been preserved but whether it has also been growing; whether the Lisbon Strategy, the tool that is supposed to ensure that this happens, is capable of providing solutions in the areas of innovation, energy, migration, education and demography, in particular.
All of this must facilitate growth and the ability to create jobs.
Therefore, until we have a set of rules that are internationally recognised, it is crucial that we retain and do not water down our existing trade defence instruments, which are our only effective tools against dumping.
Furthermore, in order to support those who have most difficulty in benefiting from globalisation, Europe needs to step up its arrangements for putting solidarity into practice, for example through the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund and flexisecurity.
The European Union possesses all the necessary capabilities and resources to meet the challenge. (FI) Madam President, success in globalisation is vital for European prosperity: it is the producer of its material content.
Now that the three-year cycle for the renewed Lisbon Strategy is coming to an end, we need to focus attention on the external dimension in particular.
The second central issue is climate change, a global phenomenon, which is having a negative global impact on the environment, the economy and society, and which calls for global solutions.
It must therefore become involved in a methodical, planned, collective and dynamic manner in the globalisation process, in order to develop proper rules of operation in the new world system.
As a commonwealth of principles and values, the EU must give pride of place to its human-centred character and promote it internationally.
This is the role that the EU can and must play in the process of globalisation. (NL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate comes none too soon.
Well, the challenge for us is to respond as best we can to the new circumstances brought about by globalisation.
Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's assurance that the Commission Legislative and Work Programme 2008 is focused on the desire to shape globalisation to best effect is a good sign, a sign that things are getting serious.
The fact that globalisation was also a topic discussed at the informal Lisbon summit indicates that the Lisbon Strategy needs a new external dimension.
As group coordinator on the Lisbon Strategy I would emphasise that this strategy has galvanised us into action.
I would suggest, Madam President, that from now on we focus less on targets, percentages and statistics and more on the real objectives: innovation, a good business climate, competitiveness, growth, and more and better jobs.
The two reasons that justify regulation inside a common economic area are fair competition and a high level of consumer protection.
The key point of our complex strategy must be to promote the convergence of regulatory mechanisms, in other words the creation of global rules and standards, not only technical but also ecological, social and safety rules and standards.
In the environmental field it must be recognised that the European Union has proved itself in protecting the environment, and it has proved its capacity to lead and point the way to the future like no other regional bloc in the world has done.
The negotiations that will begin in Bali in December will clearly demonstrate this.
The idea is to invite others who share this pathway, these difficulties and these challenges of globalisation to share economic, social and environmental values and principles with us, and naturally to make it very clear that globalisation will be successful for everyone only if we can actually agree on a social, economic and environmental world which is truly regulated for and at the service of all.
This aspect is fundamental.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Communication from the Commission on the European interest that has served as the basis for today's debate is nothing more than a kind of discussion paper.
It is time to stop considering policies in isolation.
We must devote more attention to finding ways for social policy to underpin structural change.
I would like to make another three brief comments on the keynote debate that has taken place here today on the subject of globalisation.
Europe's interest may lie in a high level of employment in the steel industry in Liège, to cite a very topical example, or in high environmental standards in European emissions trading.
What I am hearing in Europe today is that China and India must change their environmental and social standards.
As the author of the Parliament's report on globalisation, I know that we have recognised the challenges, and it is time for action.
In the meantime other challenges have presented themselves in the form of the economic offensive from China, India and other Asian countries.
The proper response to the challenge of globalisation is full market liberalisation and courageous reform of the European social model.
in writing. - In order to succeed in this era of globalisation, the European Union needs to develop a Foreign Direct Investment Policy for Europe.
We need a policy to cover: Incoming Foreign Direct Investment, that is direct investment into the European Union and originating anywhere else in the world; Outgoing Foreign Direct Investment, that is direct investment anywhere in the world originating in the European Union; and Internal Foreign Direct Investment, that is direct investment in any European Union Member State originating in any other European Union Member State.
A common fear is that due to globalisation, countries with low labour costs will deprive Europe of jobs.
The EU has a significant role in changing these attitudes.
