Preparation of the European Council (Brussels, 13-14 March 2008) (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the preparation of the European Council in Brussels on 13-14 March 2008.
President-in-Office. - (SL) I am very pleased to be able to present to you the main topics for the European Council session that starts tomorrow.
In accordance with the tradition of spring summits, this one will also be devoted to economic issues, especially the Lisbon Strategy, as well as to climate change, energy and financial stability.
We are all aware of the fact that the European Union is facing new challenges and that globalisation is bringing new opportunities, not only in the economic sphere but also in the social and cultural spheres.
Recently we have witnessed a reduction in economic activity due to the recession in the United States and higher oil and commodity prices.
To strengthen the competitiveness of companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, the European Council is planning measures which will enable them to develop and operate more satisfactorily.
The first debates have reconfirmed the commitment of all the Member States to an ambitious response.
Nevertheless, it is too early to expect that agreement on all aspects of this package will be reached at this summit.
However, we expect it to be possible to reach agreement on the principles and guidelines for further consideration of this package.
We anticipate that leaders will express a wish to maintain a general balance while paying attention to the complexity of the package in respect of its economic and financial effect.
The aim is to adopt the package as early as possible in 2009 or at any event before the mandate of the European Parliament expires.
Our efforts will be successful if all the key partners start tackling the challenges of climate change.
An effective internal energy market is an essential condition for a reliable, lasting and competitive energy supply in Europe.
We expect the European Council to call for speedy adoption of the agreement on the third package for the internal gas and electricity market.
The European Council will place the efforts relating to climate and energy policy in the context of the development of new technologies and will increase investment in those technologies.
This was recently defined in the Strategic Energy Technology Plan and should make a further contribution to the competitiveness of our companies.
It concerns the debate about the recent situation in international financial markets.
The situation in the international financial system is still uncertain.
If we want to manage the risk of its effect on the real economy, we must direct the economic and financial policies of the European Union towards securing macroeconomic stability and implementing the structural reform plan.
The European Central Bank, national authorities, institutions of the European Union and financial institutions have adopted a number of measures to stabilise the situation.
However, the responsibility for risk management still lies primarily with the individual financial institutions and investors.
The recently published report by the Commission on state asset funds is an particularly valuable contribution to this debate.
The European Council will probably agree with the need for a common approach by the European Union in accordance with the principles proposed in that report.
We are also faced with the important task of securing more stability with the help of our climate and energy policy.
Our debate today and the discussion with the President of the European Parliament at the European Council session are undoubtedly two important factors in achieving this aim.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, traditionally, the Spring European Council is the time when we review the Lisbon Strategy for growth and jobs, and this meeting will be more important than most.
No fewer than 6.5 million jobs have been created in the European Union in the last two years.
The employment rate stands at 66%, getting close to the Lisbon target of 70%.
Productivity is now growing faster in the European Union than in the United States.
We have had to trim our growth forecasts slightly for this year but we are still predicting growth of 2% - a very respectable performance.
A retreat into protectionism would be madness.
The Commission Strategic Report sets out a series of new policy initiatives to make Europe even more resilient to economic turmoil, and to reinforce European efforts to shape and fully benefit from globalisation.
But, thanks to the good cooperation between Parliament and the Commission and the Member States, at the end we have got that agreement.
The third priority we have looked at is the business environment.
A small company in the United States can start in one state but can immediately reach the entire internal market of the United States.
And it is crucial to our number one goal: agreeing a comprehensive international agreement in Copenhagen next year.
The more countries are involved and the closer their ambitions are to ours, the more we will have a level playing field.
So I am really determined - the Commission is really determined - to work with the Member States so that we can have a basic political agreement on the energy internal market and on the climate protection and renewables package by the end of this year.
It is of course important to link the climate protection strategy with the internal market for energy.
The Commission remains fully committed to the realisation of ownership unbundling or its functional equivalent.
The efforts of this House to be ready for a first reading by June are central.
When I say growth, it is growth that is sustainable from a social and environmental point of view.
Our group feels it is of the utmost importance to give the EU every chance in the light of globalisation, and to reform it as the European Commission has proposed most energetically since 2005 under President José Manuel Barroso.
This strategy is the best tool for dealing with the challenges facing us: globalisation, population and climate change.
It is not time to change of direction, but rather to increase our efforts along the route already marked out.
We must implement a political system in line with a viable environment-friendly economy, and this means meeting the target of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
Quite apart from the ecological advantages, this will also stand us in good stead for clean-technology markets.
Ladies and gentlemen, we will only retain our values and our model of society if we have the courage to reform our society and tell our fellow citizens the truth.
A ration of oats compensates a job well done, but oats also provide energy for all the work that remains. (Applause) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with an observation to the President of the Council.
However, there need to be guarantees that such a policy will be pursued within the framework of the European Union.
If, conversely, the Mediterranean Union were to become a divisive factor in the EU, then that would be a bad sign; it would moreover isolate France on the eve of the French Presidency, something we certainly do not want. (Applause) We therefore ask you to pass on this message to the participants at the summit.
However, Mr President of the Commission, having heard your speech today I must repeat the following: you have a guiding role in Europe.
Your words to the Heads of State and Government tomorrow must encourage them to put what you have just been calling for into practice in the Member States.
A good deal of what you say is true, naturally, but we need to address the real situation in Europe.
Of course more jobs are being created, but the jobs being created are not secure; they are ever more insecure.
We are discussing unbundling in the energy sector, which might or might not be necessary.
Let us talk for once about an unbundling that is taking place in the social policy field in Europe.
According to the spirit that prevailed here in Strasbourg 50 years ago, the combination of economic development and social security was the basis for the European Community's growth and success.
We need equal access for all citizens in the European Union, wherever they come from and whatever their family circumstances.
You are therefore right to say that we need to regulate the EU's financial markets.
Uncertainties abound about the political direction of Russia, Turkey and some of our neighbours in the Middle and Near East.
The urgent implementation of the Commission's proposals to tackle climate change is incumbent on the Member States and on this House.
The report from the High Representative on the impact of climate change on security and stability shows us that there is a real and immediate concern, with the danger of military implications, including the use - sometimes discussed - of NATO as an instrument of energy security.
Yet, blinded by short-term economic thinking, some of our Member States are already busy trying to limit their commitments to the Commission's proposals on climate change.
Mr Wurtz's group was leading a protest about the threat to 12 000 jobs at Unilever.
Mr Schulz wrote a letter to 27 Heads of State and Government calling for a change in economic direction, binding social standards and greater social protection.
I think that explains why the PSE Group has lost its former role as the motor of this institution.
The European Council must show more urgency in achieving its research and development targets.
Mr Lenarčič, you must pay attention to social cohesion and environmental stability but you must do so secure in the knowledge that markets are the most powerful tool we have to improve living standards. (Applause) on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I would like to welcome the President-in-Office as well as the President of the Commission to discuss what our elders, wise men and some would say our betters - although I do not necessarily agree with that - will be discussing during the summit over the coming days.
You cannot have economic growth without proper social cohesion and social protection.
However, flexibility should not be a byword for a diminution of standards or of the protection of workers' rights.
Look at the challenges that we face in the European Union today: our lack of investment in proper research and development.
The best and the brightest from European universities and institutions are leaving Europe to do their research and further work in America, Japan and now even China.
And look at the relocation of European industry and business: it is not to other countries within Europe, which was the case 10 or 12 years ago; it is now outside the European Union, to India, Pakistan, Malaysia and other countries.
What we have to ensure is that the foundation stones that we put down today will be as strong in 15 years' time as they are today, that they will continue to deliver economic growth and that they will continue to deliver security of energy supply.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by taking up what Mr Schulz said.
This poverty indicator is an integral part of our resolution, and I find it regrettable that neither the Council nor the Commission has so far responded to these decisions of the European Parliament. (Applause) Turning to the subject of climate and energy, quite frankly I was shocked when a German Government representative declared in Brussels, just a few days before this spring summit, that environment policy ought to steer clear of industrial and economic policy.
One sometimes gets the impression that, just like those major gas deals with Russia - I mean North Stream and South Stream - this Mediterranean Union is further proof that a uniform EU policy on energy and security of energy supply is simply not possible.
I furthermore believe that the European Parliament's 50th anniversary is the right occasion for me and my Group to make clear that neither the Council nor the Commission should expect this House to be docile and indulgent and full of adulation in future.
If, as we understand, the European Council is to welcome the Commission's strategic report on the renewed Lisbon Strategy and congratulate itself on its own success, then it should devote rather more than just a few lines to those EU citizens, those children, who derive no benefit at all from the achievements of the Lisbon Strategy.
The direction and priorities of the strategy are wrong, as are the resulting policies!
Mr Watson, it is not our protests against the aggressive global conduct of Unilever, Thyssen-Krupp, Nokia and many others that are unrealistic, but the refusal of the Commission and Council to confront the global corporations that are acting so aggressively and attach the appropriate priority to protecting the employees concerned and those who are socially excluded.
These four questions are fundamental, I believe, if economic growth really is to be sustainable in social and environmental terms.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, President of the Council and President of the Commission, together with my Irish colleague, Kathy Sinnott, I have made a proposal for a new protocol to be amended to the Lisbon Treaty before its final approval.
It will outlaw a revolutionary decision by the European Court of Justice dated 18 December 2007.
They will only allow the Treaty principle on free movement of goods and services to be moderated by the other fundamental principle of the right to strike if there is a risk to public security, order or health.
Foreign workers in foreign companies in Ireland may now work for the Irish minimum salary of EUR 9 an hour.
Political forces in Europe that were traditionally pro-market are today - let us put it elegantly - more prudent'.
Indeed, The Economist recently lamented the anti-globalisation language used by some European leaders.
And, notwithstanding the emergence of India and China, the EU's share of world exports rose, albeit slightly, between 2000 and 2006.
Europe was on target again in terms of growth; unemployment was falling; employment was on the increase; public deficits were going down; the European Council was introducing a set of visionary targets in connection with the fight against climate change; and at the Bali Conference Europe was set to act as a guide for the rest of the world.
After the banks and insurance companies, investment funds have now entered the turmoil.
Growth forecasts are increasingly revised downwards.
Despite this changing context, President Barroso clings to the existing integrated guidelines as though they were engraved in Portuguese marble.
The roadmap meant to lead to the 2009 Climate Conference in Copenhagen is the flimsiest of documents.
The Commission, however, has no wish to adjust the decisions taken at the 2007 summit to the real problems now emerging.
This option would rapidly cause relocation to countries where social regulations and climate regulations are less strict than in Europe.
The gain for the world's climate would obviously be nil, but the social cost to Europeans would be unbearable.
The 2007 summit took some courageous decisions, but these did not square with the realities of the EU27.
The next summit must adjust these decisions to the new economic realities worldwide and define an environmental policy that does not operate under the illusion that the EU alone can bear the burden of the fight against climate change. (PL) Mr President, energy security ought of course to be one of the key features of the European Union's energy policy.
It should also be borne in mind that a second pipeline, whose construction is supported by several European countries, may mean that it will not be possible to pursue the Nabucco project for practical reasons.
If the desire really was to make Europe's economy more dynamic and effective, the European Commission would not have introduced barriers hindering our economic growth, as it has done in recent years.
As regards combating climate change, notably the carbon dioxide issue, we do not wish the cost of this effort to represent an undue burden on the economies of the new Member States.
Nevertheless, I would caution against playing off social affairs against environmental affairs, as the Socialists and others in this House are once again attempting to do.
Second, these funds must be hypothecated so that, as happened in Denmark in the early 1990s, the proceeds from a CO2 tax levied on industry are reinvested in the modernisation of the steel industry and other energy-intensive companies in Europe.
Third - and I think we shall have to work with the French Presidency on this point - we naturally need penalties for environmental dumping outside the single market, on other continents.
Social and environmental policies operating hand-in-hand: that is the future. (SV) Mr President, the picture presented by the Commission and the Council today conveys an entirely different reality to that which the majority of our citizens live with, a reality in which poverty and gaps between different groups have increased.
We are told that more people have found jobs, but we are not told what kind of jobs have increased.
Any prospect of a social Europe was brought to earth when the European Court of Justice ruled in the Vaxholm and Viking Line cases.
The judgments made it absolutely clear that, in the EU, free movement and the demands and interests of the internal market are more important than the interests of employees.
The Court of Justice leaves no room for doubt.
The Vaxholm judgment gave three unequivocal answers: firstly, that the Member States may not decide on labour-market matters; secondly, that employees may not resort to disputes which disrupt the internal market - thus the Court takes away from workers their only effective means of defending the principle of equal pay for equal work; thirdly, companies which establish themselves in EU countries with lower levels of pay get the right to send employees to other countries to work for the same low wages.
Trade union organisations, political organisations, non-governmental organisations and millions of ordinary people have recognised the possibility of a People's Europe, but when will the Commission and the Council also recognise it? (NL) President Barroso has spoken about inflation.
Several Member States have dealt advantageously with this and are now in a better position.
Inflation is too high; the cost of raw materials is on the increase; and recently the central banks have had to avert a credit crisis in the financial markets with extensive loans.
This discussion might perhaps sideline other economic issues such as implementation of the Lisbon Strategy or how to stimulate the economy in the face of the international financial crisis.
In general, therefore, financial assistance must be coupled with the conclusion of an agreement to take back illegal refugees or packages of measures to prevent illegal migration. (NL) Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the agenda of the spring summit we find an almost complete list of the socio-economic and ecological challenges facing our generation: that is, if we want to take responsibility for those who come after us in a time of globalisation, climate change, technological advances and an ageing demographic.
As group coordinator for the Lisbon Strategy I want to say how much we value the fact that the Commission has presented the Community Lisbon Programme.
This Act, Mr President, must therefore become more than the SME Charter, which was approved in Santa Maria da Feira some years ago.
Thank you for your attention. (FR) Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the spring summit, the economy is in turmoil, markets are deregulated, stock markets are crashing, growth is falling.
At any rate, it is this phenomenon that may give Europe its very meaning in this globalised market: a Europe that obviously cannot completely escape this turmoil, a Europe that is itself one of the main players in globalisation, often to its benefit, but that largely finds in globalisation its meaning and vocation to counterbalance crazed capitalism through public regulation, economic stabilisation, active public policies to support growth in the real economy, support for public and private investment in research, innovation, and European infrastructure.
Finally and above all, our group stresses that the EU must counterbalance this destabilised high-finance economy with effective social protection, solid public services and guaranteed social rights for workers.
Mr President of the Commission, this is our message: use your power of initiative to help the Council to adopt an ambitious programme for a social Europe. (SV) Mr President, it is difficult to take responsibility for Europe's future.
We must ensure that we have economically sustainable development in Europe.
I am glad, when we discuss matters arising from the Lisbon Strategy, that it represents a comprehensive approach to sustainable economic development, economic growth, environmental responsibility and socially responsible policy.
The cooperation that has been launched between the European Parliament and the national parliaments is immensely important.
There is no point in making pronouncements on the 20-20-20 targets in climate policy when they are not also reflected in the Council's resolution on the Lisbon Strategy.
The Telegraph reported on 6 March that a major investment bank, which speculated by means of arbitrage between the buying and selling rates for Italian bonds and credit derivatives, had been forced to liquidate all of its bonds.
Therefore, gentlemen, I do not believe in your project: it is well below what is required, and is totally inadequate for the environmental crisis endangering the entire planet. - (EL) Mr President, now the European Parliament is celebrating its 50th anniversary, I was expecting the representatives of the Commission and the Council to come here with greater sincerity and modesty.
As for you, representatives of the Council, rather than ambitiously promote the Barroso package on climate change, you are trying to waste it.
This is what I was expecting you to say, rather than congratulate each other. (NL) I am very surprised that the situation in Turkey has not been placed at the top of this week's agenda.
The reform process has almost completely ground to a standstill, but the negotiations simply go ahead.
Freedom of expression is formally obstructed under Article 301 of the Turkish Penal Code.
Approximately 10 000 troops have invaded the country.
My question therefore, Mr President, is how long will the European Union continue to behave like a sort of shrinking violet in the negotiations with Turkey? (PT) Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, it should be noted that since 2005, thanks to the current Commission, the Lisbon Strategy has shaken off its previous state of apathy.
As regards education, it is fundamental that we also create a culture of competitiveness and directed creativity.
However, more than this, I would say that the drive for innovation and the Lisbon Strategy can be summed up in two words: what Europe, business and universities must do is create value. (DE) You have stated before this House, Mr President of the Commission, that you have moved closer to the European Parliament's way of thinking.
My specific question is this: in what respect has this move towards Parliament's stance led to any new emphasis, or to the setting of a single new priority in the economic and social policy guidelines that are to be adopted by the Council over the next couple of days?
That is not, however, in the interest of the European people, it is not in the interest of European firms and it is not in the interest of the European Parliament, which has issued many resolutions calling for greater attention to be paid to the economic, social and environmental circumstances in the European Union.
As our own studies have shown, we are falling behind in terms of research and development.
Parliament's report on the energy efficiency action plan exposed major failures in implementation of energy efficiency legislation.
In January, the Commission's first assessment of national energy efficiency action plans spoke of the gap between the political commitment to energy efficiency and actual delivery.
The Lisbon Strategy's priority was to ensure that Europe developed at a faster rate than the United States, whilst also increasing sustainable employment.
Ridiculous measures of this sort certainly do not bring us closer to achieving the aims of that Strategy. (DE) Mr President, I should like to broach a completely new topic which has not yet been mentioned, and recall the debate that took place in this House a month ago on the future of the cohesion policy and the link with two European documents: the Leipzig Charter and the Territorial Agenda.
Cohesion policy is the practical application of the principle of solidarity; it will therefore no doubt be with us, and occupy us, for longer than the Lisbon Strategy, which after all is to be successfully concluded by 2010. - (EL) Mr President, the state is ceding the last area of regulation under its control.
Meanwhile, working conditions are worsening because of flexible working hours, and as a result, workers are being sacrificed to competitiveness for the sake of mega-profits for capital.
The peoples of France and Holland rejected the Constitution, yet it has now come back with a new name and with what Angela Merkel called 'cosmetic changes'.
In Britain a campaign group has just undertaken an independently monitored postal ballot in 10 Westminster constituencies.
The Treaty cannot be legitimate without their consent.
The European Council must listen.
We must have a referendum. (DE) Mr President, Mr President of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, unlike the speakers from the Socialist Group I wish to commend the Commission for not having hastily altered its economic policy guidelines in these times of global uncertainty caused by the financial crisis.
This process forms an integral part of the post-Lisbon Strategy.
Many of the new jobs are insecure and impossible to live from.
It is therefore important for the Commission to make it clear that the principle of equal pay for equal work must apply and that we must have good social conditions throughout Europe, so that the tide of protectionism does not advance across the EU. - (LT) I would like to speak about the coordination of economic policy.
In the face of new challenges the European Union has to find ways of tackling them quickly and flexibly in order not to lose in the dynamism and competitiveness stakes.
It impedes the development of the internal market - the main source of economic growth.
Meanwhile, we are discussing climate change, energy strategy, etc., but all these means, as already mentioned, must be coordinated and their economic consequences evaluated.
Saving energy and increasing the proportion of renewable energy consumed constitute only part of the solution to these problems.
The political aspect must be taken into account too if Europe's energy policy is to be fully implemented.
Gazprom is a Russian monopoly with a presence in 16 Member States of the Union either as an energy supplier or as the owner of distribution networks.
I should like to disclose a secret to our Socialist friends here today: in order for there to be employees, there needs to be employers - there are no employees without employers.
I think our success in making Europe more competitive lies in making small and medium-sized enterprises able to act all over the internal market.
Community and national policies on employment and support for young people chiefly in the education sector ought to adhere to these ambitious targets.
They should make systematic and coordinated efforts at regional, national and Community level in order to release the EU's significant stores of knowledge and research potential.
We also ought to recognise this significant initiative within this framework at Community level.
The Erasmus and Comenius programmes are at the heart of the initiatives.
Let us stress that the new programme, mainly the Erasmus Mundus, which allows both mobility outside the borders of the EU as well as mobility for doctoral students, is an initiative that will have Parliament's full support.
It is up to the Member States to step up coordination on the basis of the Bologna Process and make this mobility possible in practice. - (LT) The discussion on the common energy policy and energy security started in 2006 in the wake of the Russian-Ukrainian gas crisis, the consequences of which had an unfavourable impact on Europe.
Regrettably, we still have neither a clearly defined common energy policy, nor an external energy policy.
It was an extremely successful summit, under Angela Merkel, and it is now a matter of transposing into legislation the decisions reached on 7 March last year.
The key point, in my opinion, is that we must run our economy using fewer fossil resources in the future.
Its economy is growing faster than the American or Japanese economies.
It is good to know that new Member States such as Slovenia, which currently holds the presidency, participate in this success in equal measure.
Of course the European Union is facing new challenges: one is excessive dependence on imports of energy sources; another is climate change.
In this regard the European Union is going in the right direction.
As to competitiveness, we can see in what direction the US, Russia, China or India are going.
Our own research should concentrate on nuclear energy far more than it has done so far. (DE) Mr President, anyone who takes a look at the draft Council conclusions can see that the language on the internal energy market is extremely weak.
There is no agreement in the Council on the question of unbundling, and the Commission's package comes in for criticism.
The Commission has in fact been too quick off the mark with its proposal on the complete unbundling of ownership rights.
I should like to raise a second point on the Council conclusions for reasons of principle.
I merely wish to put this on record here, because the Parliament, Commission and ECJ will undoubtedly be criticised yet again for appropriating powers.
It is high time that we create a better legal framework at European level for investment in research and infrastructure.
You cannot make the same large-scale, expensive investments in every country.
The Stern report indicated that some 200 million people could be displaced by climate change, creating huge migratory pressures.
I also welcome the work being done on better regulation and the help for small businesses.
One should also add the worrying effects of climate change, the need to secure energy security and a rise in overall uncertainty.
All these factors impact strongly on the implementation of the Lisbon Agenda, through complicated, unavoidable trade-offs.
It is essential to increase the number of graduates in science and mathematics in Member States, and all Member States should work together to this end.
Fourth, energy policy needs more focus and the Nabucco Project is a step in the right direction.
If we lose our moral compass, the talk about competitiveness in the social... (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the newly revised Lisbon Strategy has basically been successful since 2005.
I also believe that it was right to set new priorities aimed at boosting growth and employment, because that is one precondition for being able to proceed sensibly with sound environmental and social policies as the second and third pillars of the Lisbon Strategy.
For example, I still see major shortcomings in the ongoing development of the internal market, which has supposedly been with us since the early 1990s but simply does not exist in many areas.
On the other hand, there has been a whole series of legislative proposals in other areas, above all geared to progress in the fields of social affairs, the environment and consumer rights.
I would therefore call on the Commission and the Council to pay particular attention to closing the loopholes in the internal market legislation. (FI) Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council was quite right when he said he thought that climate change and the economy are closely connected.
This issue must also be visible at the forthcoming summit.
At the forthcoming summit we need to lay down a credible political policy in support of the decisions that have been taken.
In other words, we still need more ambitious and clearer energy efficiency targets.
Mr President, tomorrow the heads of Member States meet in summit.
I understand there are many items on the agenda, but I hope you will also discuss the impact of the Laval-Vaxholm decision handed down by the ECJ just days after your last summit.
This will force workers in the host Member States to reduce their wages or lose their jobs.
The Laval-Vaxholm decision has the potential to unravel social partnership, industrial relations, the economic and social stability of whole countries, communities, responsible companies and families and to unravel support for the European project among its oldest Member States.
Mr Bonde and I have sent a protocol to protect Member State economies from Laval to the Slovenian Presidency and our respective prime ministers for inclusion in the European Summit tomorrow.
I am delighted once again to welcome the Slovenian Minister, whom I had the pleasure of meeting in Slovenia recently, and to thank the Slovenian Presidency for their engagement with this process.
I am really pleased that the draft conclusions already published show that the Council is continuing to focus on the four key areas of the Lisbon Strategy.
The Laval judgment is a perverse interpretation of the legislative intentions of this Parliament and its co-legislator, the Council.
Finally, let me say that Mrs Sinnott, as usual, is wrong in her interpretation.
However, there are agreements in Ireland that are not legally binding and that has to be addressed. (DE) Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, Mr President of the Council, I appeal to the European Council on behalf of my Group to properly incorporate European transport policy into the integrated guidelines.
Without effective transport corridors, without cooperation between transport providers and without intelligent transport systems, neither trade nor tourism can be expanded inside the European Union or with third countries.
Mr President of the Council, when talking to your colleagues in the Council, please bear in mind that it is crucial for the Member States to include transport policy in their national plans for growth and employment.
I therefore appeal to you, for the sake of growth and employment, to make transport policy the central plank in your strategy. (PL) Mr President, the spring Council will meet at a critical juncture.
The fear and uncertainty arising from the current economic situation must be countered by decisions rather than by words.
In the situation in which we now find ourselves, we are expecting the Member States and the Council to take specific decisions.
This Treaty needs to inspire European citizens and fill them with hope.
That is why the forthcoming summit must send out a clear signal to the citizens of Europe that it will improve the situation. (DE) Mr President, Mr President of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, unemployment is falling, the European Union has gained from globalisation, we are doing better than the United States, and the EU is on the right course.
Secondly, climate protection and a reduction in energy dependence must give a new lease of life to research, innovation, growth and employment.
Fourthly, the euro, enlargement, the internal market, the Lisbon Strategy and the Treaty of Lisbon, which strengthens the social market economy and enshrines fundamental social rights: these form an overall package which should help the European Union along the road to success.
Our opponents are the lack of power, political capacity and leadership of some governments and parliaments in the Member States.
Our opponents are egotism, nationalism and protectionism, not more Europe and not a strong Commission. (FR) Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, I wish to make a single request of you when you go to the European Council: defend this institution when it tells you that the EU's social and economic situation requires more attention to be paid to social issues, requires us to make our economic policies coherent with our targets and our strategy legitimately drawn up for climate change and energy independence; when it tells you that, if the Lisbon Strategy is to succeed, we need more economic coordination; when it tells you that, if we are to deal successfully with the American subprime crisis, we need better regulated finance markets.
Mr President-in-Office, at the request of certain Heads of State or Government who are legitimately concerned at the situation of the financial markets, you will examine the consequences of this situation on the EU's real economy.
In this sense, at the end of 2008, the European Commission will have to assess the measures on the restriction of labour mobility imposed by certain Member States on Romania and Bulgaria.
However, according to the current legislation, Member States can continue to maintain these restrictions in force, which is indeed a fact in relation to the states having joined in 2004.
A welcome measure would be to obtain the mandatory opinion of the European Parliament on the pursuance or halting of restrictions after the first two years following the accession of a new Member State.
Against that background I am calling on the Spring Council and the Irish Prime Minister, Taoiseach Bertie O'Hearn, to raise this issue at this important meeting.
I would just like to say that, from an Irish point of view, we are voting - we think - on 12 June on the Lisbon Treaty, so I tell the House that there is much debate already and more to come.
President Barroso is to be congratulated for having prioritised these issues since the start of his term in office.
Economic growth is vital, not only to guarantee a good standard of living for Europeans, but also to sustain the economic and social cohesion policies, because the joint commitment behind the European project is based on a logic of solidarity.
This is why I, too, call on the Council presidency to remind Member States that solidarity is a necessary condition for the success of our Union and that the exaltation of national egos can only be negative.
We must work together and present a united front to our partners in the world.
It is very important - and increasingly in this House - that the European Union has a common foreign policy with regard to the Russian Federation and to some of the proposals, for example the Nord Stream pipeline.
We look for good and harmonious relations, but we cannot have them if this House and this European Union is divided.
Firstly, it is crucial that freedom of services should be applied in all Member States.
Thirdly, as regards the Lisbon Strategy, I would ask you, President Barroso, to remind the European Council that implementation of the Baltic Sea strategy you kindly supported could become a practical contribution to the Lisbon Strategy and, indeed, maybe one of its success stories. (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I would like to hear your opinion on EU monetary policy.
Mr President-in-Office, you stated that you would have an exchange of views on the operation of the financial markets.
As we have heard in the course of the debate, and this is something I believe too, we will increase the competitiveness of European economy and create new jobs if we improve the business environment.
It was adopted by the European Parliament and the Slovenian Presidency, with the efficient help of the Commission, in particular Commissioner Verheugen, who was personally involved.
As statistics show, the health situation in Europe is worsening.
The President of the Commission did not mention this specific problem in relation to housing.
I wish to ask the Commission, since it is putting 2010 forward as European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, if it intends to approach the problem of housing from the point of view of investment packages and finance policies, especially property investment funds on European markets. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the EP's policy department has commissioned a study on the problems that climate change will pose for us.
The damages in Europe are estimated at between EUR 24 and 194 billion.
I would suggest that, in accordance with the Barcelona objective, we take 3% of this sum - in other words between EUR 1 and 6 billion - and use it to give the European Institute of Innovation and Technology a head-start in the field of climate change.
People must at least ask for the floor. (Interjection from Martin Schulz) I merely wished to make that point, Mr Schulz, and to add that the PPE-DE Group was not too enthusiastic about the introduction of the 'catch the eye' system, but it was above all PPE-DE Members who asked for the floor.
President-in-Office. - (SL) I would like to thank all the Members of the European Parliament who took part in this very interesting, very dynamic and rich discussion, which will be useful in the final preparations for the European Council session tomorrow and the next day.
Firstly, I would like to repeat that the European Council session this week is devoted to three main issues: launching the new phase of the Lisbon Strategy, the energy and climate policy package and the financial stability problem.
The Mediterranean Union is not among the primary topics.
I will remind you of the words of our Prime Minister and President of the European Council, Mr Janez Janša, in this assembly on 16 January: 'We wish to strengthen institutions and processes such as the Barcelona process and Euromed, but we do not need duplication or institutions that would be competing with EU institutions and would only cover part of the European Union and neighbouring countries.
The Lisbon Strategy: several opinions expressed the need for a change in the structure, mechanisms or integral guidelines of the Lisbon Strategy.
However, I would like to emphasise here that both the European Council and the Commission are of the opinion that the Lisbon Strategy is effective.
It has been said that the Treaty of Lisbon, if and when ratified, will change the balance between social and other dimensions.
The European social model will not in any way be damaged by implementation of the new Lisbon Treaty - on the contrary.
I would like to thank Mrs McGuinness for the information about voting day in Ireland.
Regarding the other important set of topics, that is to say the climate and energy package, I would say the following: yes, Mr Watson, we are aware that it would be useful for governments - and not only governments but perhaps also European institutions and other important players - to set an example in achieving greater energy efficiency, reducing energy consumption, and the like.
However, we can agree on some basic principles of sharing these efforts among the Member States and on some limits regarding the time frame.
I have said that we wish the agreement among the Member States to be reached before the end of the year and the joint decision with the European Parliament as soon as possible in 2009.
The impression is being created that European organisations and institutions are standing idly by while the crisis rages out there in the financial markets.
At the debate on this topic yesterday, initiated by Mrs Berès, Commissioner Almunia responded by saying that before we act we must establish with certainty which measures are really necessary and which ones may cause even more damage.
The central topic of this meeting will be the problem of financial stability.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will end by reiterating my conviction that the most important things in all this are cooperation and synergy, especially among the three key institutions of the European Union: the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
Allow me to announce that the President of the Council will give a report to the Parliament on the European Council session this week.
President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of these discussions I feel we can say there is in fact broad agreement in the House that the Lisbon Strategy ought to be pursued, that it is a success and that we must work harder on it, especially in terms of implementation, particularly the practical implementation by our Member States of the priorities originally set.
I must, however, underscore the general backing for the Lisbon Strategy and the clear conclusions of the European Parliament that indicate that it is working and that it is our answer to globalisation.
That would be against our own interests.
The best solution is to make sure that others open up themselves, not only in relation to trade and access to their markets, but also in more ambitious environmental terms and in terms of social rights.
Internally we can of course do more within the social framework, and I wish to say that the message the Commission will take to the European Council is a message of social commitment.
In particular, we are in favour of a social agenda based on access, solidarity and opportunity.
I must tell you again what I have already said to you many times, and what I also said when addressing the Swedish Parliament: the Commission's interpretation of the Laval case is not, as a number of people have suggested, a contradiction between the principles of the internal market and the principle of defending workers' rights.
On the contrary, we feel that the flexicurity model and, in a general sense, what is known as the Scandinavian model of labour relations, is a progressive model that has produced some excellent results in Europe.
I thus wish to emphasise this aspect, for it seems to me we must avoid at all costs falling into the trap of viewing the social aspects as being contrary to competitiveness in Europe.
What I can tell you is that during the next phase the Commission will be even more determined to build a genuine European energy policy and to combat climate change.
The problem of energy or energy-intensive industries merits a separate reply.
Our goal is 'greening', an industry that can turning its sights towards achieving a new compatibility with our targets in terms of fighting climate change.
It would be a huge error to view the competitiveness of European industry as contrary to the fight against climate change.
That is why in our proposals, and the Commission has stated this clearly, we support specific guarantees for energy-intensive industries.
We do not want to see our industries moving away to other parts of the world.
Now we need to know what our main objective is at this stage.
Our objective is to have a global agreement on climate change and to participate in the Copenhagen Climate Change Conference with proposals that will encourage others to move.
The greatest danger would be to take a step backwards now in the face of a new global economic situation.
It is the European Parliament's duty to tell the Commission in what direction to go. (Applause) Furthermore, it is my duty as Chairman of this Group to point out that we perceive a social imbalance in Europe.
That is what we are advocating here, and we will not be drawn into an institutional debate when we are conducting a political debate! (Applause) (FR) Mr President, I will be very brief.
If we wish to reply to what our colleagues have been saying all morning, as Group Chairman, this must be included in the Rules of Procedure.
If we wish to renew the debate, we will do so.
The other Members who have called for the floor have not been the subject of personal remarks.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) The decision to dedicate the forthcoming European Council to the Lisbon strategy is welcomed and necessary.
At the same time, the EU will not be truly stable and prosperous unless it effectively and firmly promotes these goals externally, in the areas close to Europe, especially in the Black Sea region.
On these grounds, I believe that the European Council must address the issue of energy security and successful implementation of Nabucco project, while taking account of the alarming situation in some of the neighbouring countries following the recent elections in the area.
in writing. - (HU) The upcoming Spring European Council will launch the next three-year cycle of the Lisbon Strategy.
The focus will be on climate change, on the challenges arising in relation to energy, and on financial market stability.
It is vital to formulate a common European Union position in the shortest possible time.
We have acknowledged the progress made with the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy since spring 2006, and we support the continued efforts aimed at adopting directives on issues relating to the overall economy, but even more importantly, ensuring that these extend to all Member States.
In the statements made today before this House in preparation for the spring European Council, we once again heard the same speeches by the main persons responsible for the European Union.
They once again insisted on the increasingly neoliberal path of the Lisbon Strategy, which involves flexibility in labour relations, or in other words, more attacks on the rights of workers and more precarious and badly-paid work, while the profits of economic groups and the financial sector continue to increase.
They still do not want to alter the situation of poverty affecting nearly 78 million people, 25 million of whom are workers on low wages.
Scotland would be in a much better position to contribute to Europe's climate change objectives if we were full participants in the European Union as an independent Member State.
in writing. - (HU) Today's debate has been preceded by heated discussions over the past few days.
The new social face of Europe that emerged in the Lisbon process does not choose between economic or market values and human destinies.
In this Europe, the goal is not merely to improve the number and quality of jobs in general; activities that sustain human lives and that are sustainable in the long term are just as much a requirement that we should consider a common value.
If these values genuinely foster a desire to mobilise for action, then the 2009 elections could result in European institutions that are even better integrated and more humane than before.
in writing. - The EU summit agenda seems to make us freeze.
In the meantime, the EU broke the ice in Kosovo.
The local warming hit the ceiling.
It is amazing that the EU has sent its troops to fight against radical Islam in Iraq and Afghanistan, at the same time it covers the assailants' civilisation in Europe.
The Archbishop of Montenegro regrets that the United States has acted like the Old Testament Ahab, Great Britain forgot its struggle for the Falklands, now it dares to threaten the fate of a Christian country, while Germany does not seem to bear in mind 1914, 1941 and Kragujevac any more.
