The next item is the report (A5-0229/2003) by the Earl of Stockton, on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, on the annual report on the activities of the European Ombudsman for the year 2002 [C5-0271/2003 - 2003/2068(INI)].
Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to address this House for the first time as European Ombudsman and to present the Ombudsman's Annual Report for 2002.
Other important achievements include the Code of Good Administrative Behaviour approved by a resolution of this House in 2001, a procedural code for complainants under the Article 226 infringement procedure adopted by the Commission last year, and the abolition of age limits in recruitment to the institutions and bodies.
As an observer at the European Convention, he succeeded in ensuring that the draft Constitution properly mentions the Ombudsman, provides a legal basis for a law on good administration and informs citizens of their right to a remedy in national courts.
He also gave me vital advice and support in the establishment of the Ombudsman institution in Greece.
The Annual Report for 2002 records the progress that has been made in handling complaints, promoting good administration and making the institution better known to citizens.
The proportion of complaints sent through the website and e-mail continued to rise.
About half of the complaints received in 2002 were sent this way.
The Ombudsman opened more inquiries in 2002 than ever before - 8% more than in 2001, including two own-initiative inquiries - and dealt with them more effectively.
I am committed to maintaining and enhancing our service to citizens by using the resources as effectively as possible and, when needed, seeking a realistic additional level of resources.
The Ombudsman also needs the cooperation of other institutions to answer complaints rapidly, fully and correctly.
The 2002 Report contains many examples of cases in which institutions and bodies took prompt action to settle the matter once a complaint was made, or responded positively to the Ombudsman's proposals and recommendations.
The Ombudsman also worked hard in 2002 to increase public awareness of citizens' rights to complain - to complain in ways that made a difference.
We produced a 'Guide for Citizens', published in 11 languages.
We issued a press release every 10 days on average and there were numerous presentations of the Ombudsman's work at seminars and meetings in the Member States.
As a former national ombudsman I can testify that the European Ombudsman is certainly amongst the best-known ombudsman institutions in the world, and is probably the best known.
We are now intensifying preparations to manage the transition to handling complaints from 25 Member States as smoothly as possible.
The preparations include recruitment of legal staff from the new Member States, as well as introduction of an improved computer database to assist in the management of complaints.
Cooperation through the network has been enhanced for all members, old and new.
The main purpose of the European Ombudsman institution as I see it is to help strengthen the democratic life of the Union by promoting the rule of law, good administration and respect for human rights in the existing and future Members States of the European Union.
The resolution adopted by this House yesterday in the Gil-Robles/Tsatsos report will greatly assist these efforts and I am very appreciative of that.
I would like to thank Lord Stockton for his excellent report and the constructive proposals which it contains.
I look forward to continuing close cooperation with all the institutions and bodies in order both to enhance the quality of the European Union's administration and to reach out to citizens.
Finally, I would like to thank all the Members of this august House for their confidence and offer them my full cooperation in the often unrecognised work that they perform in helping citizens who have problems.
The Ombudsman has covered my report in as much detail as I could cover it.
He was enormously helpful in the preparation of my report, as was his successor.
The investigative role of the Ombudsman in conjunction with Parliament is very important.
There are frequently issues which emerge not only from a complaint or, in some cases, from a petition to the Petitions Committee, but there are more general points which need to be looked at.
I would welcome an extension of the powers of the Ombudsman and an extension of cooperation, not just with the Petitions Committee, but with other areas of the European Parliament.
It has also been important in developing the relationship with the citizens of the new Member States.
However, this is not necessarily the case in the new Member States.
He was unfailingly courteous to me and, on more than one occasion, showed he had not only a great grasp of his subjects but also perhaps a slightly atypical sense of humour when dealing with the results.
I would like to commend this report to the House, and thank the present Ombudsman for his kind words.
During the last debate of this kind, on the activities of the European Ombudsman in 2001, the Commission also had reason to congratulate Mr Söderman.
With this in mind, it is important to await the final results of the IGC before taking definitive steps in this regard.
Mr Diamandouros said a moment ago that the main purpose of the institution of European Ombudsman is to help strengthen the democratic life of the Union by promoting the rule of law, good administration and respect for human rights.
I am extremely pleased that the European Ombudsman has made another proposal too - to include among his responsibilities the enhancement of the system of non-judicial means of redress, not least in order to give substance to relations between the institutions and the citizens.
Allow me, however, to say, with Scandinavian directness, that there are no doubt also certain problems in relations between the European Parliament, the Commission and the Ombudsman.
Certainly, the Ombudsman is mentioned in the draft Constitution, but I believe there are many of us who had envisaged a still stronger position for the Ombudsman as an institution.
I believe it would be quite excellent if the new Ombudsman could investigate the relations between the auditing and supervisory bodies and see whether they fulfil the requirements of good administration and adequate transparency.
I wish to congratulate our newly elected Ombudsman on his work.
In most cases, the institutions have reacted positively to the Ombudsman's comments and solutions have been found to the complaints.
I should like to ask the Commission, in this connection, how it intends to resolve this matter and the problems between our institutions.
Let me begin by thanking the Commissioner, the Chairman of the Committee on Petitions and the Members of this House for their remarks, and particularly for their very warm words for Jacob Söderman and for the office that he built up and left behind.
We had a meeting in Athens in April 2003, and we will be having another meeting of national ombudsmen in The Hague in 2005.
We intend to continue this pattern in the future as well.
In my position as Ombudsman I am very eager to work closely with the Commission in trying to promote the eventual adoption of what I would call 'a European administrative law'.
Therefore, I have already visited three of the six countries in which there are a large number of regional and local ombudsmen, and I intend to continue to do so.
Leaving that aside, I am very eager to work with Parliament in taking initiatives designed to strengthen the rights of citizens throughout the Union.
The citizen is dwarfed by the gargantuan nature of the institutions and of globalisation.
We, on the other hand, have an issue to resolve that is greater than conflict between powers: ensuring that these institutions are genuinely representative of the citizens.
The third and final point relates to the restructuring of the Committee on Petitions.
Ladies and gentlemen, I want to repeat once again that the Commission is particularly aware of the importance of petitions as a yardstick for the day-to-day concerns of the citizens of Europe.
From this point of view, the Committee on Petitions is irreplaceable, being the ideal forum for establishing direct relationships between citizens and Parliament.
What I am talking about is the committee's desire to enhance its own administrative capacity, in order to process the expected influx of a large number of new petitions from citizens of the Member States as effectively as possible.
I wish her luck and every possible success in her new duties.
I want to recognise the role played by the new petitions in providing information on services linked to the implementation of Community law.
Mr President, the role played by the Committee on Petitions must become more widely known amongst the citizens.
paragraph 23 does in fact state that with a view to the accession of new Member States to the EU, Parliament calls for firmer measures to ensure that the new European citizens are aware of their right to petition Parliament, the Commission and the Ombudsman under Articles 21 and 194 of the Treaty.
I also wish to thank the secretariat of the Committee on Petitions for its hard and successful work.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has been wonderful to start the day listening to people here actually trying to outdo one another with regard to the heartfelt praise that has been lavished on my fellow countryman, Jacob Söderman.
Mr President, as Members know, it is customary in our speeches to congratulate the rapporteur.
The European Union is often accused of having a democratic deficit.
Sometimes that is a fair criticism, sometimes perhaps it is over-stated, but the Committee on Petitions is a very real route by which citizens can bring their complaints to this Parliament and have them fully and properly addressed.
I look at the empty seats over there and see that the Council appears not to be interested either in the work of the Ombudsman or in the work of the Committee on Petitions.
I do not consider that 2005 is remotely good enough.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the report (A5-0203/2003) by Mr Perry, on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, on the petition declared admissible on the Lloyd's Petitions (Petitions 1273/1997, 71/1999, 207/2000, 318/2000, 709/2000 and 127/2002) (2002/2208(INI)). .
Mr President, in 1997, an English lady, who is so fearful that she still has to remain known as Madam X, submitted a petition to this Parliament.
She simply questioned whether the British Government was properly regulating Lloyd's of London in accordance with Insurance Directive 73/239/EEC.
Commissioner Bolkestein will speak for himself, but what he has said to the Petitions Committee, and his actions, clearly indicate that he has concerns about the regulation of Lloyd's.
Unfortunately, those letters and responses have never been made public or made available to the Petitions Committee or to Parliament.
The key question that the petitioners pose is this: does Lloyd's have the reserves to cover their liabilities, as Directive 73/239/EEC requires?
In 2000 Mr Justice Cresswell pointed out that the catalogue of failings and incompetence in the 1980s by underwriters, managing agents, members' agents, and others was staggering and brought disgrace on one of the City's great markets.
Between 1978 and 2000 was the British Government correctly applying EU Insurance Directive 73/239/EEC?
That is why I have tabled an amendment giving the Commission six weeks to give a full, authoritative and written answer to this House.
However, failing that, Parliament must reserve its right to have the fullest inquiry into this lamentable case.
Mr President, I should like to thank you for this new invitation to address the House and to provide you with the latest report on the progress of the Commission's investigations into this complex and very sensitive file.
As many Members of Parliament will know, this is in fact the fourth time that I personally have had the opportunity to discuss the case with Members of Parliament, and in particular with Members of the Petitions Committee.
Furthermore, I have also responded to an extensive postbag from Members on the subject.
Rather, I would propose to focus on developments since I last spoke to this Parliament, which was at the Petitions Committee hearing on 22 January 2003.
By letter dated 24 March 2003, the Commission received a comprehensive reply from the UK authorities to the supplementary letter of formal notice sent by the Commission on 23 January 2003 which expressed some residual concerns about the new regulatory regime for Lloyd's established under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
In order to respect the procedural rights of complainants, in the second half of July 2003 my services wrote to all complainants, as well as to petitioners who had not lodged a formal complaint, explaining the results of this preliminary analysis and indicating the intention of the services to propose that the Commission should close the case.
Furthermore, general public access to the file will be granted in accordance with the terms of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001.
I have spoken somewhat longer than I would have preferred but, given the importance of the case and the tragic stories that surround it, I wanted to be crystal clear in my statement to this Parliament.
As on previous occasions, I would be very happy to try and answer any further questions you might have.
I would merely like to retrace our steps in this debate for a moment to, when talking about petitions and the gargantuan ventures brought about by globalisation, I made an analogy: the citizen and the giant.
There is an enormous discrepancy between the citizen and the giant.
All we want to do is respond to the requests of the citizens, because this is our mandate: a mandate of representation that we must fulfil completely by representing both the citizens and institutions such as Lloyd's of London.
Mr President, it is very easy to react on emotion but this House should not react on emotion, it should react on facts.
That is why I cannot support this report.
But there were also problems within the Committee on Petitions.
Sir Nigel Sheinwald did not seek to block an inquiry, but pointed out quite rightly, that any inquiry should be within the Rules of Procedure and indeed our Treaties.
The PSE Group will vote in favour of his amendments.
Finally, the PSE Group will support this but, in all honesty I have to say to the House, with my hand on my heart, I cannot support this report and therefore I will not.
Mr President, along with many British Members of this House, I have received a large number of personal letters from constituents like the petitioners in this case.
However, there is a wider issue at play here, which affects the good functioning of Community law.
I was a rapporteur for the last two years on the reports on the implementation and monitoring of Community law.
As a Parliament we then called on the Commission to improve its infringement procedures and its dealings with complainants, calling in particular for correspondence passing between the Commission and the Member States to be made available.
This is the area that any committee of inquiry should, and can, examine: the Commission's carrying out of its supervisory duty in implementing Community law.
It is about getting an answer for our citizens.
With the greatest respect to the Commissioner - and I have the utmost respect for his work - to say that everything is in order now is not entirely satisfactory.
We have to provide answers for our citizens.
In the third place, some fellow Members seem more keen on protecting their own governments than adopting a responsible attitude towards citizens and demonstrating that the law is the same for everyone.
At the heart of the issue is the failure to implement properly the 1973 First Non-life Assurance Directive and subsequent relevant directives.
Complex or not, the petitioners have a right to know why European Union rules for the regulation of Lloyd's were not properly implemented.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his careful, accurate and detailed analysis of this case.
The focus of Mr Perry's report and the real allegation of the petitioners is, as I understand it, that the UK Government failed to implement the terms of EU insurance law correctly in its supervision of Lloyd's.
Our concern at this moment in time is this, and only this: after five years of reports, we want to maintain the credibility of our committee and, consequently, our problem is whether we shall receive a definitive answer as to the extent to which the directive was or was not applied.
The Lloyd's issue came to the Committee on Petitions with petitions from citizens.
As, therefore, we are all interested in reinforcing the participation of the European citizen, I think we should give some emphasis to this debate and I even think that we should declare the day of the debate in Parliament to be the day of the European citizen.
Thus, we shall be reliable and we shall say that we really are interested in their rights.
Thus, I shall raise the more general concern.
These are the more general concerns that are being aired in today's debate and I think it is a golden opportunity for us to use them in the interest, naturally, of the European Union, but more importantly, for us to give European citizens to understand that we stand by them.
Mr President, I should like to support the proposals in the Perry report, but first I should like to point out that Commissioner Bolkestein has indeed provided a great deal more recent information and clarification on the subject.
The efforts by the Committee on Petitions to be fully enlightened by the Commission about this tragic affair and by the British government - we have held a meeting in camera - are not bearing fruit, at least not when it comes to informing us.
If we move without transparency and without account being taken of the citizens' side, then we fail as a European institution at a crucial turning point in the overall development.
The role of the Committee on Petitions is to ascertain whether national and local authorities are implementing and applying EU directives properly.
We are therefore obliged constantly to enter into disputes with national governments or ministries, and sometimes the European Commission also launches infringement proceedings.
Obviously this is not to the advantage of the government concerned, but we are here - and that is how I understand my work in the committee - to protect the public.
These Lloyd's petitions are unpleasant, not only for the former and current British governments, but also for the European Commission, which hesitated as early as 1978 to take steps against the United Kingdom.
I am standing between two highly esteemed British colleagues, namely Roy Perry and Michael Cashman.
I welcome the compromise and hope that it will enable us to bring justice to the petitioners and help to ensure that such a tragedy does not happen again.
The role of the Commission, as I have said time and again, is to see that present legislation is in line with present European law.
Therefore the Commission has sent two letters of formal notice, the process of negotiation and discussion with the UK authorities has started and the UK authorities have brought their instructions into line with what the Commission thinks ought to be done.
Therefore the matter of compensation for previous losses must be left to the national judicial authorities and, as has been remarked this morning, there is now a lawsuit which has been brought before the High Court in London.
The Ombudsman has dealt with the matter of transparency and I have nothing more to add, except to say that the matter of the committee of inquiry is something I must leave up to Parliament.
It is not for me to judge whether the circumstances are present for such a committee, nor whether the process hitherto has been correct.
I would simply ask you to confirm that the action of the House in receiving this report is fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that it is acceptable.
As regards paragraph 5 concerning the accompanying explanatory statement, I am more than ready to make an oral amendment to my report that the explanatory statement, in accord with our usual practice, should not be included with the report.
The debate is closed.
We now continue with the vote.
Report (A5-0292/2003) by Giorgio Lisi, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the limitation of emissions of volatile organic compounds due to the use of organic solvents in decorative paints and varnishes and vehicle refinishing products and amending Council Directive 1999/13/EC (COM(2002) 750 - C5-0632/2002 - 2002/0301(COD)) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Joint motion for a resolution Mr President, the oral amendment regards the replacement of almost all of paragraph 22.
I believe that this text is clearer and I hope that all the Members will be able to accept it.
Mr President, before moving on to the Cashman report, I would like to point out that we have received an erratum which is not really an erratum at all.
It makes a correction to the Cashman report in respect of Parliament's support for the T-84/03 proceedings against the Council for reasons of transparency.
This matter has been referred to our legal service and to the President for a ruling.
It was also a positive step to recognise the right of any citizen, any natural or legal person residing in a Member State, to have access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents.
She wishes to ensure a minimum sum of EUR 21 million for this programme.
This was the case both for Amendment No 86 and for the final text.
It tries not to impose a specific market structure but to be flexible enough to accommodate the diversity of market structures in the various countries, as well as facilitating and promoting innovation in an environment of cooperation among national authorities.
The problem is that sometimes these judgments are marginal.
The European Commission and a large proportion in this Parliament are still assuming that protests from the Third World have only delayed an inevitable development towards international free trade and protection of foreign investments, and that the desires of Europe and the US still have to be complied with.
In this context, I should like to highlight the role of the Ombudsmen in the democratic process of Europe, in ensuring that all people have the right to have their affairs handled impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time by the institutions and bodies of the Union; access by citizens to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents; and the right to refer cases of maladministration in the activities of Community institutions or bodies (with the exception of the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance acting in their respective judicial roles).
Mr President, I cannot support the Perry report.
I am amazed to see British Conservatives attacking a national British institution when I do not believe that Frenchmen, Spaniards or Germans would do the same to their own national institutions.
The report also contains errors of fact.
and resumed at 3 p.m.) The next item is the report (A5-0244/2003) by Mr von Wogau, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the Council's Fourth annual report according to Operative Provision 8 of the European Union Code of Conduct on Arms Exports (2003/2010(INI)).
Right at the outset, I should like to explain briefly why we are addressing defence issues here in this Parliament.
In 1999, the Heads of State and Government decided to establish a European crisis intervention force of between 50 000 and 60 000 troops.
I come now to the European Parliament: on 10 April of this year, on the basis of the Morillon report, the European Parliament set out its views on defence policy, and in particular proposed a two-stage plan.
We said that by the year 2009 we wanted to have made sufficient progress to be capable of carrying out an operation of the intensity and difficulty of the Kosovo conflict on our own, independently, or together with our allies.
As a first step, the call was made in the Morillon report, and subsequently endorsed by a substantial majority in the European Parliament, for us to have a 50 000-strong crisis intervention force by 2004, a permanent crisis intervention force to be available around the clock for rescue operations and humanitarian duties.
That then is what the European Parliament is calling for.
However, if we wish to dismantle these barriers to trade, we first need to ensure not only that there are common rules for the export of armaments, but also that these common rules are applied in the same way by the 15 Member States.
Mr von Wogau, I would like to thank you for drafting the splendid report you have just presented to us, namely the Fourth annual report on the European Union Code of Conduct on Arms Exports.
The European Union Code of Conduct on Arms Exports adopted in 1998 is politically binding on Member States.
The ultimate responsibility for arms exports rests with national governments.
This could prove an important step towards harmonising the arms exports policies of all the Member States.
I believe it is also very important for the European Union that the acceding countries should be fully engaged in procedures linked to the code of conduct, especially as regards the exchange of information and notification of licences refused.
The Commission has presented a draft Community Council regulation on the trade in certain goods and equipment that could be used to inflict torture, capital punishment or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment.
The report analyses the situation at present and proposes consistent action for the future.
A review and standardisation of EU practices must be undertaken without delay, and we must ensure there is compliance with the EU Code of Conduct in the countries that are to be the EU's new neighbours and in countries with which the EU has concluded a stabilisation and association agreement.
The remedy proposed in the report, greater transparency and a more multilateral approach, is the only way to correct these defects and prevent transfers of arms that pose a threat to human rights, regional stability or sustainable development.
The control of armaments brokering in Finland aims to thwart the circumvention of bans on arms exports imposed by the European Union, the UN Security Council and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, as well as the EU Code of Conduct on Arms Exports and other international agreements and undertakings concerning the control of exports.
We can therefore anticipate that my country will support the policy being proposed by my colleague, Karl von Wogau.
In the Convention and the draft constitution we have said that Europe needs to shoulder more responsibility in the world.
I also agree with the rapporteur that if we want a common arms policy - meaning that individual countries do not do their own research or manufacture their own arms but that we do this together at European level - we not only need a common armaments market internally, but also a common arms export policy.
Brokers in the arms trade are quite unique agents.
We urgently need a common position here, and this Parliament calls on the Council to bring about an agreement amongst the Member States.
Thank you very much, Mr Leinen.
The demand and consumption of these products also concerns the producer countries.
That is why what is needed is not codes of conduct, compliance with which depends on the good will of the Member States, but the introduction of mandatory rules and controls and the gradual reduction in the production, movement and use of arms, pending their definitive prohibition.
Nevertheless, we also still have the problem - and this too has already been mentioned - that this Code is insufficient to ensure proper surveillance of arms movements.
The von Wogau report therefore proposes regulating arms exports and making them more ethical.
The simple fact that the great powers are wasting enormous sums of money on weapons of mass destruction shows that the present organisation of society is barbaric.
As regards the report by Mr von Wogau, I think that he is right in noting, on the fourth opportunity we have had to give our reaction to the Council's annual report, that progress can be noted once more, on paper, in reporting and transparency.
Nevertheless, people found an opportunity to export them to Nepal, and now we even have regionalisation of the arms trade.
In addition, I understand the European Union supports several other specific actions concerning the destruction of stocks of such low calibre weapons or small arms in particular countries.
Those are the three points I wished to make as this debate draws to a close, Mr President.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the Commission statement on the European Union and the campaign against torture.
In order to strengthen the European Union's action in a number of third countries, the Council Working Group on Human Rights is also currently preparing a strategy for a more effective application of the guidelines on torture adopted by the Union in 2001, while analysing information about cases of torture sent in by European Union heads of mission in different parts of the world.
Large amounts of money are given to non-governmental organisations and international bodies for the prevention of torture and the rehabilitation of victims through the European initiative for democracy and human rights.
Last year, for example, EUR 25 million were allocated to projects of this kind under a call for proposals for 2002 and 2003.
In 1994, your Parliament played an important role in the allocation of funds for victims of acts of torture from the European Union budget.
In 2001, the Commission presented a communication on human rights, which was marked by a change of direction in the matter of rehabilitation and prevention and a commitment to 'ensure that it focuses as much as possible on prevention, including through human rights education of the police and other possible agents of torture'.
The legal, social and medical assistance provided by rehabilitation centres is in our view extremely important.
However, since the funds allocated to the European initiative are limited to around EUR 100 million a year to finance four major priorities in the defence of human rights, the Commission was forced to make some harsh and difficult choices.
The communication it presented in 2001 clearly shows that the general principle of the European initiative's limited budget is to concentrate on civil and political rights and presents the European Union as the architect of change in the field of human rights.
Thus, since 2001 calls for proposals have attached great importance to the durability of projects during the evaluation process.
Moreover, actions aimed at strengthening centres' institutional capacities, in particular by developing their ability to mobilise funds, were explicitly eligible for financing in 2001 and 2002.
The International Rehabilitation Council for Torture Victims is itself working with some 200 centres around the world.
The Commission is currently completing work on the European initiative programme for 2004, which will give priority to the prevention of torture and to rehabilitation.
This document will be presented to Parliament in due course.
The call for proposals amounting to EUR 11.5 million, targeting rehabilitation centres in the European Union, which was announced on 9 August 2003, is I think evidence enough of that.
That is what I wanted to say on this question.
The first works on the pretext that it is necessary to find out certain information, for example in the case of dangerous terrorism.
Just a few years ago there were particularly cruel cases of torture in Kosovo.
That is why I am in favour of a dynamic policy in this field.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of recent events, I should like first of all to express my joy that Amina Lawal, who had been condemned to be stoned to death in Nigeria for adultery, has won her appeal and is no longer facing this threat.
The world really is waiting for the European Union to continue to stand by what it has practised and to stick to its commitment, which cannot be expected from anywhere else.
I think that it is particularly good that we are also devoting attention to educating the police in this sense.
That happened twice in two different sittings of this House during January 2001.
Commissioner, we have to make sure that the European Union will speak up and act to answer any complaint on torture.
As a Spanish Member of this House, I take responsibility for my own words.
The Spanish Government has pardoned them, so they can torture with impunity in Spain.
According to the Rules of Procedure, as you all know, everyone has a right to speak in this Chamber - which is called, sometimes rhetorically, a temple of democracy - and everyone assumes the moral responsibility for their words.
We have mechanisms for doing this, but it does not seem to me that we are using them in respect of the 77 ACP States, except in the case of Zimbabwe, where we have taken quite modest measures.
You mentioned a further point, namely the treatment centres for torture victims.
I am also trying to enlist support for the proposal in my own group.
It is a fact, however much of a cliché it may sound, that September 11 marked an important turning point in human rights.
At the same time, we were horrified to hear arguments from supposedly enlightened people maintaining that torture should be used in the fight against terrorism.
The most vivid and recent example of how violence generates even greater violence was the attack on the UN offices in Baghdad.
We have all abolished it in Europe, but unfortunately that is not the case in other parts of the world.
However, Mrs Maes, the European initiative does not make an absolute distinction between prevention and rehabilitation and does not dispute that rehabilitation centres can and must play a role in prevention.
Moreover, the 2002 call for proposals expressly allowed centres to devote 20% of their proposed budget to prevention-related activities.
As I pointed out, funding for rehabilitation actions is not going to disappear in the near future.
You must bear in mind that, as I said, the European initiative is not the only source of support the European Union gives to victims of torture.
Several Member States of the European Union in fact make an important contribution themselves, through the United Nations, to the Voluntary Fund for the Victims of Torture, which grants aid to rehabilitation centres on an annual basis.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, this Parliament has been trying to make the European Commission aware of the increasingly worrying situation of European beekeeping since the end of the 1980s.
The Commission has never acted on this Parliament's unanimous requests to take more appropriate measures to save European beekeeping, such as the pollen-gathering premium.
For several years now, beekeeping has been faced with new problems, in particular the loss of hives because when bees have gathered pollen from certain crops they lose their sense of direction and that is just as dangerous, Commissioner, as when politicians lose the plot.
Since the Commission is turning a deaf ear to our repeated warnings despite the Council having explicitly asked it, on 18 February this year, to develop its action in this field in line with Parliament's demands, we in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have had to ask for this oral question to be placed on the agenda with a debate and resolution on the new difficulties being encountered by European beekeeping, a resolution on which we will vote on 9 October.
On 28 April this year, the Committee on Agriculture held a hearing on these new difficulties.
In several Member States, beekeeping is in fact facing problems of large-scale mortality within bee colonies, especially in France, Mr Barnier.
Beekeepers in many regions of different Member States have been observing increased mortality rates among bees for several years now.
That report officially records the presence of doses of substances I previously mentioned as having been found in pollen.
In the meantime, our beekeepers need help, more funds to cope with this new crisis, whatever its origin.
That is why, Commissioner, we are asking the Commission to kindly give a clear answer to the three specific questions we have put to you in the course of this debate.
Mr President, I have been well aware of your commitment to this subject for a long time, Mrs Lulling, and of your competence and strength of feeling.
The Commission notes that most of the concerns expressed in this regard relate to two insecticides that are currently being evaluated, Mrs Lulling.
It has been provided with information on the decline in bee populations in some Member States, as you yourself have solemnly emphasised.
The Commission is itself following the matter very closely.
Finally, Mrs Lulling, on the matter of aids under Council Regulation No 1221/97, the Commission cofinanced national programmes to improve the production and marketing of honey to the tune of 50% during the 1999/2000 marketing year.
The French programme, for example, included a study of the effects of plant protection products on bees.
Your country also has a former agriculture minister for president and it is a country, which, thank God, takes healthy eating and delicious food very seriously.
Quite extraordinary problems of declining bee colonies have been observed in France for several years now, since 1995 to be precise.
The situation is getting worse by the year, the geographical area and the number of hives affected is constantly growing and now we can say that many countries of Europe are affected.
In our view, the precautionary principle means banning the use of the products in question, at least on all honey plants.
Work on the substances in question has been going on for several years.
As a former environment minister in my country, I am sensitive to this question.
The working party will report to the next symposium, which will be held in 2005.
This report is at your disposal, Commissioner, and we shall meet again on 9 October, when we will be discussing the draft resolution on which the Committee on Agriculture will be voting next week in conclusion of this debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be on 9 October 2003.
I should like to inform the House that Lord Bethell has informed me of his resignation, with effect from 30 September 2003.
In accordance with Rule 8(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the House takes note of this vacancy.
Mr President, I do not want to delay the House, but it would inappropriate if I did not mark that particular announcement on behalf of the whole House.
He also had a direct role in air liberalisation, so he has had a direct effect upon consumers throughout the European Union.
I have been informed by the competent Slovak authorities that Jozef Heriban has been appointed as observer in place of Imrich Béres, with effect from 9 September 2003.
The next item is the vote.
Report (A5-0244/2003) by Karl von Wogau, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the Council's Fourth annual report according to Operative Provision 8 of the European Union Code of Conduct on Arms Exports (2003/2010(INI)) (Parliament adopted the text) President.
The von Wogau report therefore proposes regulating arms exports and making them more ethical.
The simple fact that the great powers are wasting enormous sums of money on weapons of mass destruction shows that the present organisation of society is barbaric.
