President-in-Office. - (SL) The Council did not discuss the installation of the US anti-missile defence system on the territory of the European Union.
Therefore, although, as I said, we really do not have competence or responsibility in this question, we hope that a balanced solution can be found that is, in the end, satisfactory for all.
We in the European Parliament, however, must focus first and foremost on its implications for the security of the continent of Europe.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, this is not the first time that we have discussed this issue; it is also not the first time that we have had the same answers from the Council, which says that it has no competence here, as does the Commission, although - and I must congratulate the Commissioner for this - she did say at the end that things need to be organised differently in the European Union.
What we think is wrong is that bilateral negotiations are going on with two NATO Member States which - coincidentally or otherwise - are also Member States of the European Union, and this affects relations with Russia, including the European Union's relations with it.
I therefore fear that there are moves afoot to push through decisions this year, to conclude agreements with Poland and the Czech Republic, before a new administration - hopefully - takes over in the United States.
So I hope that we can take the discussion forward on this issue here in Parliament, and also monitor what is happening in the Czech Republic and Poland.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Ladies and gentlemen, at times President Putin's rhetoric reminds us of the possibility of Russia aiming its missiles at Europe.
It has nothing to do with us or with Europe'. (DE) I am sorry, but that is absolute nonsense.
We even have a new treaty that gives us our own foreign minister with responsibility for a common foreign and security policy, and when we have a common foreign minister we shall surely have to discuss matters at the European level, not as individual governments discussing their countries' security with other individual governments, or like Mr von Wogau, who maintains that Europe is threatened by Iran or goodness knows what other countries.
It is not a decision for the Polish or Czech Members or for Members of any particular nationality - Romanians and Bulgarians tomorrow, Sicilians the next day or whatever.
No, we have a common interest in taking decisions about our security.
Accordingly, this issue must be a matter for the European Union.
The decision must not be taken bilaterally between Poland and the United States or between the Czech Republic and the United States.
In this context I would like to stress that I am supported by my colleagues in the GUE/NGL Group and I also draw on my own experience as a military expert; but most importantly I am supported by the majority of citizens in my country, where 70% of the population are against the installation of the American radar system.
The SOFA negotiations that are currently taking place in Prague are a legitimate right of the Czech Republic.
Because the radar situated on Czech Republic territory will ensure the security of many European countries and because this will be the first opportunity for the Czech Republic, a country that had been occupied for many years, to actively contribute towards European security, the Czech Government must be extremely responsible in its actions.
We must not ruin the effectiveness of our common defence with quarrels over whether we should defend ourselves at all. (CS) Allow me to make use of this one-minute speech to call on the Council of the European Union and the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy to discuss the American anti-missile defence system at European level.
I would therefore ask that this issue be included in the Council's agenda.
Let us not forget that 21 countries in the European Union are members of NATO. (DE) Mr President, one of the supreme anti-war novels is about the good soldier Schweik, by Jaroslav Hašek.
We must discuss this issue among ourselves, on the floor of the European Parliament, but we must also discuss it, of course, with the members of NATO.
I should mention that even the new Lisbon Treaty explicitly states that issues of national security are the competence of the individual EU Member States alone.
To conclude I would like to say that I completely reject the view that the Czech Government has not communicated with its citizens about this system.
The third point concerns the number of bases.
There are American bases in 18 European countries.
As we know, we need 24 more countries to ratify it, and the Presidency of Slovenia is hoping that the States will ratify it on time and that the new Treaty of Lisbon will come into force by the planned deadline.
The European Union already has a European security and defence policy, which already provides a framework for such discussions within the Council as well.
