Preparation of the G20 Summit on 2 April - with the participation of Gordon Brown, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Member of the European Council (debate) Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, it is a great pleasure to welcome here this afternoon the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Gordon Brown.
Welcome, Prime Minister, to the European Parliament. (Applause) The Prime Minister will make a statement to the European Parliament on the preparations for next week's G20 Summit.
This summit meeting, which will take place in London on Thursday 2 April 2009, comes at a critical movement in the handling of the current international economic and financial crisis.
The Prime Minister has also made a strong and positive impact in showing how the United Kingdom can work effectively with its partners in the European Union, as together we find innovative solutions to the many challenges we face in common.
I have great pleasure in giving the floor to the British Prime Minister, Gordon Brown. (Applause) Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. - Mr President, for this special honour of an invitation to speak to you, and for your successful Presidency of the Parliament, let me thank you.
Then let them think of how today, after years of cooperation and unity, none but those on the political extremes would question that we are stronger together and safer together than ever we were apart. (Applause) On 9 November this year, we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of something that surely for each of us in this Chamber must count as one of the most defining events of our lives - the fall of the Berlin Wall.
You should all be proud of what together we have achieved - the greatest and biggest single market in the world, now bringing opportunities to 500 million people, and the most successful endeavour in economic cooperation anywhere in the world.
You should be proud, too, of the comprehensive framework of environmental protection that we are building - a defining achievement of European coordination, with this continent the first in the world to set itself unequivocally on the path to becoming a low-carbon economy. (Applause) You should be proud, too, that, through the world's biggest programme of aid, the most sustained commitment to saving and changing lives anywhere in the world has been made by this European Union.
Let me repeat: I believe that the European Union is uniquely placed to lead in building this future, precisely because we have proved over the last 60 years that we as Europe can meet and master the challenges of cooperation across borders, of coordination between peoples, and of building unity out of diversity.
I say that every part of what has been a shadow banking system must now come under the supervisory net. (Applause) Established limits to markets agreed in one country or region are being overtaken by global competition between all countries.
So starting at our debate today, as we prepare for the London Summit next week, I propose that we, as Europe, take a central role in replacing what was once called the Washington Consensus with a new and principled economic consensus for our times.
I believe that, for the first time, we can also agree the big changes necessary for coordinated action that will signal the beginning of the end of offshore tax havens and offshore centres. (Applause) Let us say together that our regulations should apply to every bank, everywhere, at every time, with no opt-out for a shadow banking system, and no hiding place in any part of the world for tax avoiders who are refusing to pay their fair share.
I believe that this year we are seeing the biggest cuts in interest rates the world has ever seen, and we are seeing implemented the biggest fiscal stimulus the world has ever agreed.
I believe that the whole of Europe will agree with President Obama in saying that our actions should be sustained and robust until recovery is achieved.
We also have a responsibility to the unemployed.
That is why I am proud to be part of the European 2020 package on energy and climate change that we agreed in December 2008 - a decision of this Parliament also which has set the highest standards for global leadership on the road to a climate change agreement we all want to see at Copenhagen later this year. (Applause) What we are now experiencing in some of the countries of eastern and central Europe demonstrates why we must build anew the international economic cooperation to help countries whenever they are in times of need.
Let me say that one of the great opportunities ahead for us is for Europe and every other continent to work together.
Today I want to emphasise also that Europe and America can work more closely together.
Let us work together for a new worldwide climate change agreement - a climate change agreement initiated at the G8 in 2005 by Chancellor Merkel - for the biggest cuts in carbon emissions the world has ever seen.
With France under the leadership of President Sarkozy joining the centre of NATO again, let Europe and America work together to achieve something that was once a dream but is now, in my view, possible: a world where nuclear weapons do not proliferate and where the nuclear powers agree real reductions in their arsenals of nuclear weapons. (Applause) Let us work together also for an urgent imperative all of us want to see in our lifetimes and something that all parties in this Parliament, I believe, crave: peace in the Middle East, with a secure Israel side by side with a viable Palestinian state. (Applause) But the most immediate and the most urgently-needed gift our European and American cooperation could give is that, as a result of our actions, there will be more jobs, more businesses and more trade, as together we meet and master these great financial challenges of our time.
In this generation we face a world of change not yet fully understood, in which we can either hasten or delay progress by the myriad of decisions that we take every day.
Let this be our legacy: that we foresaw and then shaped a truly global society for our new times; that, instead of globalisation being a force for injustice and inequality, we made globalisation a force for justice on a global scale; and that, faced with the most difficult of challenges, a united Europe, founded on shared ideals and based on shared values, helped build this world anew. (Sustained applause) Prime Minister, on behalf of the European Parliament, I want to thank you for that very remarkable speech here in the European Parliament. (Applause) Now, it is a pleasure to invite the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso, to make his contribution.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, the G20 Summit in London will be a milestone in the global response to the global crisis.
I recall that both President Sarkozy and I went to Camp David to propose to President Bush a global response.
The G20 Summit in Washington in November 2008 was precisely the result of those joint efforts.
The economic slowdown is particularly severe.
The European Union is already doing a lot on this front: our overall fiscal effort, combining discretionary action and automatic stabilisers, is close to 4% of GDP.
The European Union is moving: we will say it loud and clear in London so that we can work together with our partners, namely our American friends.
We will hold an Employment Summit on 7 May to mobilise ideas and actions in favour of keeping people in jobs and retraining them for the jobs of the future.
We are working with social partners, because we believe that is also part of our model in Europe -the idea to work together with our social partners - and we believe that in this way we can help our workers to prepare them for the jobs of the future sustainable and low carbon economy that we want European to lead.
I would reply to them in advance that, thanks to this market economy, the average income of our fellow citizens has risen by 40% over the last 40 years.
The EUR 400 billion European aid programme will help us overcome the crisis.
Thank you very much for this, Mr Brown.
You are also right that we need solidarity between people in society, but also solidarity between states.
The economic crisis will pass, but climate change will remain.
I know we share that view, but America retains its affection for skeletal regulation, and the reality of this recession shows that those who wilfully ignored bad practice are now suffering most.
Prime Minister, you and I carry different colours from the political pallet, but as fellows Scots with a burning belief in progressive politics, I know that we both understand Burns when he wrote: 'Oh would some Power the gift to give us, to see ourselves as others see us'.
The reality is that, compared with the Marshall Plan after the Second World War, there is no big beast on the world stage today that can rescue the rest of the world economy.
Let us show them that there is a way out of this crisis, that there is light at the end of the tunnel, but most importantly of all, let us show them that they are part of the solution.
Now is the time for us all to come together, not just to save this harvest, but to save the planet.
However, I have to remind you that on most of the issues you mentioned - democratic reforms, social issues, the Working Time Directive, taxes - your Government was on the wrong side. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, you, together with a fair number of your colleagues and our own President Barroso, are responsible for the fact that the European Union does not have any financial regulation instruments or fiscal and budgetary policies that today would be so valuable in allowing us to tackle the crisis.
That is why those who pompously announced the G20 as a new Bretton Woods at which capitalism would be recast or even moralised have deceived our fellow citizens.
There will be no 'eve of the revolution' in London on 2 April.
This speaks volumes of the nature of the challenges of our times. (Applause) on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, the Prime Minister has received some criticism this afternoon for his comment 'British jobs for British workers', but you can brush that aside, because from the moment he said it I do not think anybody seriously thought that he would ever, as a British Prime Minister, put the interests of British workers above that of his European dream.
First of all, that it is important that the world comes together to deal with this crisis.
The third thing that comes out of this discussion for me is that to have global solutions to global problems we will also need not just our European institutions to be strong, but our global institutions to be strong.
I was asked whether the World Bank and other international institutions can help countries where there is substantial poverty being created as a result of the crisis.
I believe that, whatever the different views expressed in this Parliament, there is a will across the peoples of this world to do that, and we, Europe, can play a major role in it. (Loud applause) Colleagues, the lively debate today has shown the importance that we in the European Parliament attach to ensuring a successful outcome to the G20 Summit.
Prime Minister, thank you very much indeed. (Applause) Statements are being made that would have been unimaginable a year ago.
This means that the principle of 'things have to change so that everything can stay the same', which Luchino Visconti dealt with so well in his film 'The Leopard', is once again being advocated.
