President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, let me first join you in paying tribute to Jean Monnet.
We face very significant challenges as a result of unprecedented stresses on our financial systems and our economies as well.
As this Parliament certainly knows, a wide range of measures have been taken by the Union and the Member States in the face of the financial crisis.
At their meeting on 1 March, the Heads of State and Government agreed that we should do this in a coordinated manner, in line with the guidelines provided by the Commission.
Two thirds of European banks' assets are held in only 44 multinational groups.
We are also working to get rapid adoption of the regulations on the protection of bank deposits and on credit-rating agencies.
Some Member States have already made efforts towards consolidation.
The financial crisis is now affecting the real economy.
The overall stimulus this offers represents, as was agreed, 1.5% of GDP, but, if you include its automatic stabilisers, it comes to 3.3% of the EU's GDP.
That enabled us to both keep the level playing field and, at the same time, face in a concerted and efficient manner the aggravations in some of Europe's key industrial sectors, such as the automotive industry.
The European Council will assess the state of implementation of this programme.
Here, too, the Commission's communication of 4 March sets out a number of important principles which should guide the action of Member States.
Therefore, the renewed Lisbon Strategy remains the right framework within which to promote sustainable economic growth, which will, in turn, lead to the creation of new jobs.
Next week's European Council should agree on concrete orientations on how the EU can contribute to mitigating the social impact of the crisis.
This issue will also be the focus of the special summit which will take place in early May.
At their meeting 10 days ago, the Heads of State and Government were clear that we have to make the maximum possible use of the single market as the engine for recovery.
More than ever, our companies need open markets, both internally within the Union, but also at the global level.
The European Council will establish the Union's position in advance of the G20 Summit.
Leaders will be looking at prospects for growth and employment and at reform of the global financial system and of the international financial institutions.
The EU is active in all these areas and should be in a strong position to ensure that the international community takes the right decisions.
The other major item on the agenda of next week's European Council will be energy security.
The recent energy crisis demonstrated all too clearly the extent to which we need to increase our ability to resist future supply problems, as we could see earlier this year.
It is very clear that climate change is a challenge which can only be tackled through a concerted global effort.
It will also contribute to accelerating reforms and to deepening our commitment to work together with those countries.
It also puts strong political pressure on all the leaders.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have already done much in these last six months to fight the crisis that we are experiencing.
This support for the real economy amounts to a total of 3.3% of GDP and includes a real contribution from the European budget.
The recovery plan includes, for example, accelerated advances from the structural funds for an envelope of EUR 6.3 billion in 2009, in addition to the EUR 5 billion already committed.
The actions carried out in the last six months are fully in line with the Lisbon Strategy for growth and employment.
Structural reforms, which have been of great help in strengthening our economies, must be pursued because they also help to maintain short-term demand, but we must now move on to the next stage and deploy the measures for combating the crisis more thoroughly.
This will be the mission for the European Council next week.
With the very strong support of the Czech Presidency, whose commitment and complete cooperation with the Commission I welcome, I am convinced there will be progress in four areas that the Commission defined a few days ago in its communication, namely, the financial markets, the real economy, employment and the social dimension, and the global dimension via the G20.
The informal summit of 1 March - thanks to a very large extent to the effective chairmanship of Prime Minister Topolánek - has already laid the foundations for a fruitful European Council.
Our guidelines on impaired assets, our communication on the automotive sector and the report that I have entrusted to Jacques de Larosière and his high-level group have enabled the Member States to build a consensus so that they can rally round common positions.
I would mention, by way of example, the reports we will debate this morning, the Ferreira report on the economic recovery plan, the Andersson report on the guidelines for employment, and the Kirilov report on cohesion policy.
After our initiatives on recapitalisation and guarantees, our guidance on impaired assets targets the major obstacle now identified as blocking the flow of credit.
However, we must also revamp supervision.
The fact that we are in an economic crisis does not make our problems of dependency disappear.
On the contrary, and I welcome the decision of Prime Minister Topolánek to have a discussion on this issue.
Of course, we all know that the Community budget, at less than 1% of GDP, can only make a limited contribution to a European-wide stimulus.
In 2006 alone, Europe was richer by EUR 240 billion, or the equivalent of EUR 518 for every European citizen because of the single market.
That is why my number one concern - by far the most important test we face - is the social impact of this crisis, namely the problem of rising unemployment.
Launching a process now which takes us up to the Employment Summit in May gives us two months of intensive efforts to put plans in place and, if possible, to develop new and more ambitious strategies to tackle the unemployment problem.
Though time is short, I believe we should try to organise a much more inclusive process in the run-up, involving social partners, civil society and parliamentarians.
We will also carry more weight on the global stage.
For that, we must all work closely together and stay in close touch as the task of recovery unfolds, including, of course, with this Parliament.
Bankruptcies are still occurring and unemployment is continuing to rise.
Not only will the robustness of the recovery be dependent on our joint response, but also, in all likelihood, the very continuation of the European project, at least in terms of the speed of our development and expansion.
The European project is a political project, and a guarantor of peace, freedom and democracy.
However, in economic terms, it is based both on competition and on solidarity and cohesion.
Today, in this crisis, people are looking to Europe for protection and action to help them quickly get through the current critical phase, without any serious social breakdowns.
They are looking to Europe to help them rediscover their future and to boost employment and business, based around new and more sustainable approaches to development.
The Lisbon Agenda and the environmental commitments are inspirational intentions, but we need to urgently give them substance and force.
The consensus achieved in the vote in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs shows this common intention.
The various rapporteurs and the various political groups have worked together, and I hope that this message will be conveyed to and perceived by the Commission in this sense.
I hope that, with this same determination, today's vote will allow us to confirm and convey this message.
The Larosière report is, in fact, a very important guide that we must follow.
It is also vital that the European Union adopts a determined stance in this respect at the next G20 meeting.
The damage has now been done and we need a recovery plan that is in line with the EU's responsibilities.
Parliament is giving the Commission a vote of support as regards the flexibility, forward-thinking and swiftness of the available instruments, but we cannot forget that 85% of the funds currently available are in the hands of the various countries making up the European Union.
Yet the EU countries have never been so different from one another as they are today.
It is good that an employment summit has been organised in May, but we must not isolate employment issues from the economic issues.
We need to do more, to make more coordinated efforts - certainly more than two percent - in order to deal with it.
We should tie together what is good in the short term with regard to combating unemployment with what is needed in the long term.
We have never done enough, but now we have the chance to invest seriously in education.
We must do what we can at EU level and try to deal with the Social Fund and the Globalisation Fund quickly so that the resources get out to the Member States.
We must act in a coordinated way with solidarity, we must act now and not wait, and our action must be sufficient. (Applause) Thank you, Mr President, Mr Vondra and Mr Barroso.
We actually require these measures now just when we need to have an adequate response to the economic crisis: investment in the real economy, the preservation and creation of jobs and the encouragement of entrepreneurship.
However, these measures are not the only indication of the need for us to act more effectively and efficiently.
The proposals on simplifying the rules have been long sought after and expected by users of EU funds and come in response to the recommendations from us and from the European Court of Auditors.
Secondly, the Cohesion Policy and solidarity policy.
Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets I would like to state, first and foremost, that this economic recovery plan is much more intergovernmental than Community in nature, and that it demonstrates the real financial limitations of the European Union.
In the medium term, we need to provide better training for employees for when the crisis ends and, in the long term, we need to innovate, including in social organisations via employer groups.
This summit must be the one that affirms Europe's strength and determination in the face of the crisis.
This strength has been shown in the past when Europe adopted the rules of the social market economy, which limits the damage done by an unprecedented crisis that is hitting every region in the world at the same time.
However, a strong Europe must not be a protectionist Europe.
Europe's strength in a storm, even more than in calm times, lies in its taking action on behalf of our fellow citizens, including the most underprivileged, and, above all, in doing so as one.
Europe is fighting to good effect, and I welcome the agreement reached yesterday on reduced VAT rates for the catering and construction sectors, on the introduction of real supervision of the financial markets, on saving jobs, on maintaining or restoring confidence and on ensuring a future for Europeans.
It is up to us to prove that Europe is standing by its 500 million fellow citizens, many of whom are suffering in this crisis, and is also showing solidarity towards the countries of the Union - I am thinking of Ireland, Hungary and others that are experiencing particular difficulties.
Yes, I do say innovation because I am convinced that we will emerge from the crisis only if we use new resources and make massive investment in the knowledge-based economy, and in research and development.
This prevents us from engaging in demagogy and populism.
This obliges us to speak honestly to the people of Europe.
Mr Daul, I would like to congratulate you on your wonderful speech!
If you go on making speeches like this, the people in Lipsheim and Pfettisheim will begin to think that you have joined the French Communist Party.
More must be done in the European Council.
The crisis is deepening and jobs are being lost.
We have seen EUR 40 billion wiped off the value of shares in the last six months.
This means that national economies are being threatened with collapse.
Then the Council comes up with nice little resolutions, such as the fiscal stimulus of 1.5% of GDP this year or next year.
Mr Barroso, you have made a wonderful speech.
Solidarity between the Member States is urgently needed.
For us as social democrats and socialists, solidarity is the central concept in this situation.
Solidarity between people in society, but also solidarity between states.
Solidarity within the eurozone and solidarity between the eurozone and the states outside it.
However, when it comes to Amendment 92, to a resolution to do more, in other words a fiscal stimulus of 1.5% of GDP, the PPE-DE does not vote in favour.
Amendment 92 will be the litmus test for you when we vote on it at midday.
One final remark which is of crucial importance for our group relates to Amendment 113 concerning tax havens.
You are talking like the socialists, but we want to see whether you vote like the socialists at midday.
We have put our three demands on the table and I would like to state quite clearly that if you do not vote in favour of them, then we will not have a joint resolution.
The Lisbon Strategy, employment guidelines, cohesion policy - these have always argued for flexicurity in our economies, for public investment in research and development, for the rapid transition to the knowledge economy.
The IMF should be financed effectively, tax havens should be subject to scrutiny, and financial institutions should be regulated robustly, with an effective European financial services authority overseeing the system: not to drag our economies back into the past, but to create an open, honest and transparent system of trade that is free and fair.
Strengthening supervision also means that we must not only, as the Commission says, have the capacity to make a clean sweep of the banking system and review the system of regulation, but we must also make new proposals.
Mr Barroso, nothing was done in response to this request.
If we limit ourselves to injecting funds quickly into the banking system and to giving public guarantees, without establishing a completely new structure for the financial markets, we are sure to fail.
These economic recovery plans will not equip the European economy to face the future.
Furthermore, the latest forecasts predict that the number of people unemployed in the EU will rise by almost 3.5 million in 2009.
At its spring meeting, the Council should adopt a European strategy for solidarity and sustainable development and a new set of economic, social and environmental policies for supporting investment especially in the quality of work, improving qualifications, infrastructure support programmes, policies of cohesion, environmental protection and improved health and safety protection at work.
The EU should set up a regulatory framework which would penalise firms for relocating, for example, by making EU financial support conditional on the fulfilment of obligations involving job protection and local development.
Especially now, at a time of financial and economic crisis, we need not only solidarity but also strict and fast-operating rules and instruments as a common defence against the crisis.
We cannot sign a blank cheque to bail out the countries of eastern Europe.
He demands that the European Union bail out countries such as his to the tune of EUR 180 billion, and he says that, if we do not do that, he promises us that five million unemployed migrants will head west into our countries.
Nigel Farage, we might not always be happy in our European family, but you belong to the family as well. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, in contrast to the previous speaker, I firmly believe that the forthcoming European Council should fully live up to the motto of the current Czech Presidency, which is 'Europe without barriers'.
The forthcoming Council should also reject the green-lobby plan of the Barroso Commission involving massive multi-billion support for renewable energy.
I do not believe that any sensible politician would want to contribute to a massive growth in prices and a devaluing of the savings of ordinary citizens.
Instead of learning from this fact, EU bodies have approved an incredible 519 regulations and 68 directives since 1 July last year, in other words over the space of 9 months.
The Council should also give some thought to how to rein in the bloated social state and to reducing high taxes and insurance.
Only in this way can we achieve a rapid resumption of rational human and market activities, without which it will simply not be possible to overcome the current crisis. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes I do not believe what I hear.
The legislative own-initiative report which we commissioned did not come about because the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, who we all know is a member of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, began a completely unnecessary dispute over authority.
The problem lies in the fact that the socialists in the European Union have always been a major obstacle to the inclusion of these non-regulated areas.
You have not made a financial stimulus of 3.3% in Europe - you have not!
Now we have the following situation: we are not taking care of employment, unemployment is in free fall, and your stimulus in Europe is not 3.3% but 0.9%.
What I am saying is that we need to do more and we need to devise a comprehensive plan, which will cover the summit on 19 March - which is nine days from now - the summit in London, on 2 April, the summit on employment in May in Prague and the June summit.
My final point concerns solidarity.
Particularly in the current economic crisis, though, it is of paramount importance for the Lisbon Strategy to be taken seriously.
The fact, however, that hardly any country in the European Union has met this objective acts as a brake on innovation in the European Union.
Mr President, a dynamic and highly innovation-oriented economy can help new industries, technology and products get off the ground.
If not, the EU will lose its credibility.
Common policy requires an all-out effort from everyone and does not allow any slacking from any of the Member States. (PL) Mr President, everything points to the fact that the ten-year goals of the Lisbon Strategy will end in a fiasco.
Neither that strategy nor the constantly referred to Treaty of Lisbon is a real answer to the global economic crisis.
The citizens of that country could not be persuaded to relinquish part of their sovereignty in favour of a bureaucratic structure named the European Union.
A recovery plan of EUR 5 billion is not a recovery plan since 50% of the projects on the list will see no investment in 2009 or 2010 because the licences for carbon sequestration, for example, will not be in place!
If the Commission heeds Margaret - 'I want my money back' - Merkel and draws up a list that gives more money to the strong economies than to our colleagues in the countries of the East that need our support right now, we will be unable to make progress.
The Bank is currently increasing its capital by EUR 76 billion and is negotiating with the European Central Bank to make improvements in relation to liquidity.
Therefore, we should use most of the EUR 5 billion as guarantee funds to leverage EUR 20, 25 or 30 billion of public and private investment.
Secondly, we must widen this recovery plan to include green technologies, renewable energies and investments in buildings in Europe's towns and cities.
Member States are to voluntarily reform their economies to create prosperity and an ability to adapt, both to foreseen changes such as an ageing population, and to unforeseen changes such as collapsing financial markets.
The Lisbon Strategy has not been implemented while, at the same time, the euro has resulted in much too easy a monetary policy for Ireland, Spain, Italy and Greece.
The Lisbon Strategy is a good idea that has been botched.
The recovery plan, pompously termed 'European', is, in fact, the sum of the finances decided on by the Member States.
The contribution from the European budget accounts for only a very small part of it.
Whilst EUR 200 billion is being given to support the real economy and jobs, EUR 2 billion of it is going to the banks, with no guarantee that they will use the money to finance companies and private individuals.
The participants of the informal summit of 1 March collectively rejected conditionality for aid given to the automotive sector, for the sake of the market and of competition.
We are on the edge of the precipice and, in a few days' time, the Heads of State and Government are going to ask us to take a great leap forward. (NL) Mr President, as coordinator of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for regional policy, I should like to say that the desired move towards a more flexible approach and a more emphatic focus on investment and employment are becoming a reality.
Precisely in this time of crisis, cohesion policy has its uses when it comes to Community investments.
The PPE-DE would like to maintain this integrated financial approach, rather than bring about any more fragmentation.
The idea behind adopting a more flexible approach is to accelerate expenditure schedules, simplify approval and deal with the preparation costs effectively, extend the EIB's scope considerably by means of specific programmes, including sustainable reconstruction in the urban environment and more scope for energy efficiency, not least in the old Member States.
I welcome these moves towards a more intensive approach and flexibility.
In March II, we will hold a priority debate in this plenary meeting about the adjustments to the cohesion policy.
As was confirmed a moment ago, we are committed to high-quality activities, including clusters, R&amp;D, innovation and rural development, and we will ensure that the knowledge economy and competitiveness in Europe are given a shot in the arm.
This applies to all the regions across all the Member States.
If so far it was not certain that Parliament would be united, I think Mr Farage convinced all of us that we must remain united as a European Union.
We need to stabilise real economies throughout Europe for all sectors, and especially the small and medium-sized enterprises, but we have to take the responsibility of supporting employment and not just allow those companies to generate profits.
We need to stabilise Europe as a whole but we have to look beyond Europe to even more vulnerable parts of the world and we will not build new demarcation lines within the European Union.
This is what people in the street are waiting for from us.
Let us act together. (LT) I would like to draw attention to some circumstances which seem important to me in resolving the matter of retaining and creating new jobs.
Firstly, this is a global economic crisis which is forcing us to rethink and re-evaluate the Employment Strategy.
Therefore, I urge the Commission to assess very critically how Community Members are using funds intended to stimulate employment.
Investing in small and medium-sized businesses and micro-credits are the most effective measure to create new jobs.
Funds from both the Social Fund and Globalisation Fund could be used more effectively to this purpose.
Therefore, we ought to involve unions here to protect the interests of our people.
I urge the Commission and Member States to unite on this important matter. (LV) Thank you, Mr President.
Therefore, the proposed economic stimulus instruments should certainly receive our support.
The only real instrument for stimulating the economy and for the implementation of the Lisbon strategy in those countries is finance from the European Union's funds.
In order to stimulate the economy in eastern Europe we need urgent agreement on changes to the rules for obtaining European Union funds.
These decisions will send an important signal for the recovery and stabilisation of the market in eastern Europe.
However, the Commission is not making use of this opportunity and is relying on a rescue package involving outdated concepts such as road building and the car industry.
The relaxation in the rules for the use of the Structural Funds must be aimed solely at sustainable, environmentally-friendly investment.
The posting directive should reinforce workers' rights and not help to weaken them.
What you are offering in the new document is unacceptable. (PT) The neoliberal Lisbon Strategy has been one of the European Union's basic instruments for promoting financial deregulation, privatising public services, liberalising markets and world trade, deregulating labour relations and damaging workers' rights.
This is exactly the opposite to what the Commission and the Council are proposing. (NL) Mr President, during the debates on the Spring Summit in recent years, we urged the Member States to work on the Lisbon process.
The current crisis shows that Member States that responded to this request now perform better than others.
The other Member States show major budget deficits, and the fact that the Member States that were deaf to our request are now transferring these deficits is threatening the stability of our currency.
I reject such a trivial generalisation of a problem which is affecting western countries in exactly same way.
However, this unequal and discriminatory approach is also apparent in other areas and particularly in agriculture.
Mr President, what we need now is stability.
Let me add an additional message: it is, of course, vitally important as we go through this crisis to minimise the social impact, but it is also important to hold a firm course so that we will know whether we are to emerge from it as winners or losers in terms of global competition, which will become increasingly fierce in the search for a new green, smart, low-carbon economy.
Therefore, all measures at all levels, from local to European, must be consistent with this objective.
The mandate must be supported with the necessary funding of developing countries that will enable them to join with us. (NL) Mr President, this crisis is a test for Europe.
Mr President, the Liberals would like to invest in the future, not in the mistakes of the past.
Mr President, bankers who squander our money are despicable, but Mr Schulz, politicians who now run up deficits and debts on the back of younger generations are just as irresponsible.
Only with actual European and future-oriented solutions can we meet this crisis head-on.
It is now or never for Europe. (PL) Mr President, a true strategy for economic recovery is essential for the European Union.
Thirdly, the pressure being put on new Member States to enter the eurozone should be ended.
Fourthly, precise control of the flow of finance capital should be introduced and transfer of capital from new Member States to rich ones stopped.
Fifthly, we should direct support and aid first and foremost to countries and regions which have been worst affected, and not, as is being done today, close down shipyards in Poland, while in France and Germany, jobs are being protected.
As the result of the vote in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has also demonstrated, there is complete agreement among the political groups that the employment policy guidelines for the period between 2008 and 2010 constitute a suitable - and yet sufficiently flexible - framework for the objectives to be attained.
In another respect, however, we need to be united: that each Member State must increase the level of investment related directly to employment in proportion to its own capacity.
This report has been adopted unanimously, even though the group was composed of cultures and people of very different origins.
If you allow the nations to tear themselves apart following this result, there will be no European supervision of the financial markets. (BG) The contribution of the Cohesion Policy is becoming even more significant in the context of an economic crisis.
The banking sector, closure of production capacity, lack of fresh money and the contraction of the labour market are basic problems for Member States.
The Structural Funds should be used more actively and more in keeping with the situation.
Member States should focus their attention on enabling the beneficiaries to control the funds.
I believe that the report on the Cohesion Policy and investment in the real economy will provide ideas for dealing with the crisis and will be useful for subsequent measures aimed at stimulating economy activity which we are expecting from the European Union summit.
Member States are now required to make full use, for example, of the opportunities for supporting investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy in housing and the new investment opportunities in housing in general.
These planned measures will contribute to accelerating, simplifying and increasing the flexibility of the use of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Funds.
I must emphasise that these measures do not conflict with free competition, social standards and the implementation of environmental and climate protection regulations within the Community.
It is now the responsibility of the Member States to guarantee the co-financing of the money provided by the European Structural Funds in order to be able to make full use of it.
However, Member States should be urged to make extensive use of the Structural Funds for promoting or creating jobs in small and medium-sized businesses.
This means that we, the 27 Member States, must act together.
Madam President, I want to refer to our strategy and preparations for the Copenhagen Conference on climate change later this year, where we have taken a leadership role, but one which is threatened by the economic recession and demands that we relax our standards.
The Socialist position is much more complex.
This involves firstly, of course, acting as a catalyst for the actions and efforts of the Member States, but also taking a coordinated approach at European level.
Europe must act to define a clear, innovative economic strategy.
It is important, first, to put financial services in order so that the banking institutions can play their main role, which is to finance economic development.
The texts currently being prepared for directives on the capital requirements of banks and insurance companies, and the regulations on rating agencies, must contribute to this task.
The report by the de Larosière group makes some useful and timely proposals that should be implemented quickly.
Madam President, my contribution today will be one that highlights the need for investment: investment in jobs; investment in our environment; and investment in all our economies.
In that regard, investment in our transport infrastructure and, in particular, in our railway infrastructure, is crucial, not only in providing us with a world-class rail network but also in protecting and creating jobs and social cohesion.
We want to act and we want to act decisively. (HU) I am convinced that the current economic crisis has its roots in over consumption and in the environmental crisis, and that it is in this area that we must seek the solution as well.
In order to reach a 25-40% decrease in greenhouse gases, as the scientists recommend, and in order to halt the decline in biodiversity, we need significant financial resources.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety recommends a total of EUR 30 billion for this purpose up to 2020.
Moreover, the struggle against climate change offers Europe an excellent opportunity to increase new technologies and create new jobs in order to promote energy security.
The green 'New Deal' is an historic opportunity to solve both crises at once. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it was a mistake, above all on the part of the Commission, to underestimate the extent of the crisis initially, and that it is a mistake today to repeat ourselves at summits that produce declarations of principle but are not followed by coherent and practical decisions.
In other words, to turn this crisis into an opportunity, and to the benefit of us all in the long term.
I welcome the two alternatives for innovative funding for combating global climate change in the recent Commission communication.
As the original author of the resolution on today's paper, I urge Member States to act on these proposals and also, at next week's summit of Heads of State and Government, to honour the declaration of the summit of 12 December last, which should be put officially on the record, preferably along with the final text of the EU-ETS report, as otherwise it will not appear in the Official Journal.
I await eagerly an honourable outcome of the declaration from next week's meeting of Heads of State and Government. (FR) Madam President, too little, too late, inadequately coordinated, lacking in solidarity, undersized: these are the real reactions provoked by the European Union recovery plan and the Commission proposals at this stage.
The reason is really simple: looking at the initial forecasts, we are all obliged to acknowledge that the depth of the crisis was under-estimated, be it in terms of the truly spectacular fall in industrial production in the United Kingdom and France, for example, the fall in international trade and German exports, or the forecasts of increased unemployment.
The fact is, the only true response would be a European rescue and recovery plan for the automotive sector.
For Europe, today, that would be the equivalent of EUR 400 billion per year over several years.
We therefore believe that borrowing facilities and Eurobonds should be made available, that there should be huge investment in green innovation, in the insulation of buildings, in modern transport and in the energy sector, and that there should be a support plan for the victims of restructuring and unemployment, and an indication of how all those faced with unemployment can be helped, by means, for example, of extending the scope of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund. (NL) Madam President, in this time of economic crisis, the European Parliament should play a guard dog role, particularly when it comes to preventing protectionism.
We in the European Parliament should oppose proposals such as those surrounding the support of the French automotive industry, which could adversely affect other European countries.
We cannot accept that countries should run up national debts without limitation.
There is no need to provide any structural support to other sectors in the economy.
In short, we should be a guard dog when it comes to fighting protectionism and protecting the value of the euro. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, in my short contribution today, I would like to focus on an important area which I hope will be successfully discussed and resolved at the European Council meeting, and that is the area of energy policy.
We also need to increase our reserves of oil and natural gas.
We want to increase the share of renewables, to increase the energy efficiency of buildings and products, and to increase investment in research and in measures for mitigating the effects of climate change.
I firmly believe that the measures and investments that must be introduced in the area of energy policy cannot only solve our energy and climate problems but can also have a very positive and powerful effect at a time of economic crisis by kick-starting economic growth and increasing employment. (BG) Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the efforts made by the European institutions in outlining the measures for coordinated actions by Member States and the Commission in dealing with the economic crisis.
As is already well known, the European Union's Cohesion Policy is making an important contribution to the European Economic Recovery Plan and is the Community's largest source of investments in the real economy.
As a gesture in recognition of these efforts, the European Parliament supports the amendments to the regulation on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and Cohesion Fund, in order to simplify and speed up financial management of EU funds.
This is particularly important for the European Union's poorer Member States.
Without breaching the rules on free competition and the standards of good management, Member States should use the simplified procedures for funding projects.
It is clear that Member States that now have to make great efforts to maintain a stable currency exchange rate need more support to be able to pass all the necessary steps to become members of the eurozone and thus prevent the effects of the economic crisis.
I hope that will be one of the decisions taken in the near future, bearing in mind that there is already flexibility for the existing Members. (LT) While I basically agree with the European Economic Recovery Plan, I would like to draw attention to two matters: the issuing of Eurobonds and expansion of the eurozone.
We have 16 eurozone members, whose economies will receive support, but what about the other 11 countries?
Lithuania was not allowed to introduce the Euro because inflation was 0.07% above the indicator's maximum limit, although in 10 years, not a single eurozone member has met all the indicators.
We should invest in knowledge and education and in innovative solutions, especially in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises.
It will also amount to genuine implementation of a policy of solidarity, and not protectionism.
It will make Lisbon a reality. (EL) Madam President, specific measures need to be taken to mobilise sectors of the economy so that they can be helped in dealing with the crisis.
Efforts must be stepped up with other initiatives which the European Parliament awaits and will take an active part in formulating.
The need to take measures which impact directly on financial support for citizens still remains. (HU) The European Union has never been in as critical a situation as now.
Two fundamental principles are being called into question: solidarity and the unity of the internal market, due to protectionism.
Martin Schulz is perfectly right.
The European Commission has taken no concrete steps towards putting markets in order or regulating financial matters.
Therefore, I would ask you now to tell us about the Ferreira report, Amendment 113, which concerns solidarity between the Member States and the closure of tax havens.
Community solidarity between the eurozone and the states outside it and solidarity within the eurozone.
These are Amendments 92, 102 and 113 from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
However, I have rightly pointed out that over many years, the socialists have been responsible for blocking the implementation of clear transparency rules relating to hedge funds and private equity and I have given examples of this.
The question is simply at which point we vote in favour of it.
Today we will be debating Amendment 25 on the resolution concerning the Lisbon Strategy, which covers precisely this subject.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, we have had a very long and useful debate, and the Presidency is grateful to all the Members of this House for their comments.
As I pointed out in my introductory remarks, this issue will be at the centre of the debate at next week's European Council meeting.
Despite the scale of the crisis, the Presidency considers that the European Union can agree on the various components of an approach which will take us forward.
I therefore support the many calls this morning for greater responsibility and more intensive cooperation.
I also consider that we not only can and must act together to solve Europe's problems, but also that the European Union is well placed to be part of the global solution.
While we are talking about the need for solidarity, we have to be aware that this European solidarity must be accompanied by nationally responsible policies on sustainable financial development in Europe.
We have to invest in our future, but it must be done in a way that will not undermine the long-term sustainability of our public finances or the rules of the game on the internal market.
We do indeed need to maintain employment, and while many measures remain the competence of the Member States, there are certain things we can do.
Employment should be, and is, the key theme of the three reports before us this morning.
It is, in fact, all the more reason to ensure that we deliver on the Strategy's key aims.
The Presidency is devoting particular attention to this issue, which is why we have called an additional meeting in early May on the problem of growing unemployment.
Graham Watson asked how much we will have to pay.
This was the start of the problem and, in the meantime, it has become relatively clear how all of this came about.
We also know why the measures already taken to stabilise the financial sector have not had any impact, or at least not a satisfactory impact.
We must take the appropriate political measures in this respect.
It is very important that, together with our partners, we put in place a system of global governance.
However, the problem is that there is no flexibility in this respect in the Community budget.
This transformation must continue during the crisis.
This is why we are telling companies not to cut back on research and development or on innovation and to keep their core workforce in place.
The financial measures that we take must support these objectives.
It is money from the Member States and in the Member States, there are other factors to be considered as well as what we believe to be right in this case.
The economic model of the Lisbon Strategy, which was also discussed today, does not involve an independent market.
Instead, the strategy states that the market needs rules if it is to meet its social and environmental responsibilities.
This means that we must help them to obtain funding.
At the moment, this seems to me to be the main problem, because the credit crunch is affecting both large and small organisations.
It is already clear that it will not be possible to meet the lending requirements of large and small European companies in the second half of this year, because the European Investment Bank is already at its limits.
We have presented proposals which could result in European companies' costs being reduced by up to EUR 30 billion per year.
The Commission is convinced that in the run-up to this summit, the opportunities and risks of European integration will become clearer than they have seldom been before.
This will allow us to compensate for the fact that, unlike the United States of America, we cannot make central decisions which are implemented everywhere, but instead we must ensure that 27 Member States agree.
However, at the same time, the risks are more obvious than they have ever been - the risks which we will all be exposed to if one or more Member States in this situation opt for protectionism or economic nationalism instead of solidarity and a joint approach.
There are good reasons to think that the planned European stimulus will not be sufficient, but it is already clear that it is taking too long to reach the people.
Our objective is to maintain employment and create new jobs with both territorial and social cohesion and solidarity.
At this time of crisis, the people cannot resign themselves to a Europe which has no answer, to a Europe which is powerless to tackle the problems that they are facing.
Through these reports, it is, of course, asking for national actions to be coordinated and for the Commission to use every means currently available to it in order to act.
It is asking the Commission to launch a clear European initiative for employment and saying that it is essential to have a scheduled agenda for implementing financial market regulation measures and also for offering credit to the real economy.
However, what is Parliament asking of the Council?
We cannot have a single market without this guarantee of solidarity and cohesion.
I would like to say something to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats here in Parliament.
It is these governments that are failing to act, these governments that are demonstrating a lack of coordination and a lack of solidarity.
The Cohesion Policy has demonstrated its contribution to overcoming social and economic problems and implementing structural reforms in Member States and their regions.
The experience acquired so far and the significant resources earmarked, we are talking about more than EUR 340 billion over a 7-year period, are a vital necessity during the current economic crisis, and it is of paramount importance that this money is actually used, in the best way possible at that, for the benefit of European citizens and business.
Mr Verheugen, when you spoke today, you said something which is true: we do not know how long the crisis will last.
However, there is one thing we should say today: the decisions which we make and, obviously, the decisions which the European Council takes next week, must produce results this year.
I would like to make a comment aimed at the few fellow Members who tried today to impose an economic dividing line between old and new Member States.
The vote will take place today, Wednesday 11 March.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - Guidelines were adopted as part of the renewed Lisbon Strategy in 2008 and shall remain valid until 2010.
All Member States, including Malta, had to set out their strategies to deliver growth in jobs.
This improvement has to take place at all levels of qualifications.
It is precisely now that they want to see what the united Europe is for.
We say 'yes' to the Lisbon Strategy because it brings results - it is thanks to the Lisbon Strategy that almost 7 million new jobs have been created in the EU.
Very often, they involve temporary or part-time work and, in fact, the employment rate remains unchanged in terms of full-time jobs.
I represent Romania in the European Parliament, a country in south-eastern Europe.
All I can say is that the impact of economic growth of more than 7% in 2008 seems about to vanish in the face of the turbulent economic conditions which are starting to hit hard.
The economic recovery plan drawn up by the European Commission must have an impact in every corner of the old continent.
According to José Manuel Durão Barroso, President of the European Commission, Europe will be judged primarily by its results.
The EU needs to adopt a common, clear and effective approach so as to minimise the effects of the crisis as much as possible in terms of its intensity and duration.
We need clearer regulations for the financial sector, especially with regard to investments involving a high degree of risk, such as hedge funds.
At present, solidarity between Member States is of paramount importance.
In addition, measures to combat the crisis must be integrated as part of a responsible budgetary policy.
Policy also has to think about how to discourage speculative attacks against the currencies of new Member States.
in writing. - (RO) Romania must make use of the new opportunities provided by the Structural Funds.
These payments will be quicker and more flexible and there will only be a single payment, which will enable the required projects to be implemented in a short time in areas such as infrastructure, energy or the environment.
Evgeni Kirilov's report on the Cohesion Policy and investments in the real economy underlines the importance of these features common to Member States as a first requirement in the common strategy for pursuing social and economic policies.
The European economy is suffering nowadays as a result of the consequences of the global financial crisis and of the most far-reaching and serious recession in the last 60 years.
At the same time, Member States must simplify and facilitate access to finances offered through the financial instruments JESSICA, JASMINE and JEREMIE to encourage SMEs and relevant beneficiaries to use them more frequently.
The European Union has a responsibility to see if it is possible to allow national and regional authorities flexibility so that better ownership can be taken of EU funds to deal with the unprecedented situation.
The European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) can now be used to provide partial funding for ecological investment in low-income housing, something that should be used to create and maintain jobs in the building industry - which is very hard hit - and that would help us to get closer to fulfilling our climate commitments at the same time.
Acknowledgment payments from the European Social Fund could really stimulate the struggling public sectors and small and medium-sized enterprises (SME) should benefit from the recommended changes to make cash flow more easily available.
Member States and the European Commission should not take the place of competitively sound market mechanisms, but they do have an obligation to prevent diseases.
Thirdly, Member States and the European Commission should assume the function of coordinator of the areas of both financial policy and overall policy.
Fourthly, Member States and the European Commission should develop methods for coordinating the international currency and financial market, which is vulnerable to speculation because it acts spontaneously.
The economic crisis has now reached Europe.
The latest forecasts for 2009 predict economic growth at a level of -1% or lower.
Our economies are integrated with each other, and the crisis is a global one, and this is why the recovery measures proposed must also constitute a response which is global in character and extent.
In addition, they must enshrine the fundamental principle of the EU, namely the principle of solidarity.
in writing. - As the financial crisis is deepening with no end in sight, I think that more funds will be necessary in order to stabilise the European economy and stop the downward spiral.
We therefore welcome the huge demonstration planned by the CGTP-IN, the general confederation of Portuguese workers, for 13 March, in order to change course towards more jobs, more wages and more rights.
in writing. - The Union needs to maximise its efforts to implement a consistent framework to tackle the global financial crisis.
The utmost attention should indeed be given to the most vulnerable groups in the population, those who suffer the most from the consequences of the economic and social downturn, to avoid further asymmetric impact of the crisis which jeopardises the balanced development of all territories within the Union.
The division which exists between euro and non-eurozone Member States must not give the eurozone states a privileged position from which to dictate the common future.
All Member States need to be involved equally in decision making.
All Member States have to be guaranteed the right to communicate their problems and concerns in order to find possible European solutions.
Europe needs a driving force to overcome the economic crisis with the least amount of damage.
Protectionism cannot be the answer to the economic crisis.
Therefore, to take advantage of the current depression, more money should be invested in innovation, research and development.
The European Union can supplement this task by assessing how each can give support according to its means, to ensure that the Member States and citizens who are further back in the queue also end up with a positive balance.
The Central and Eastern European region is further back in this queue, partly for historical reasons, partly because the lack of the euro has caused a lack of confidence and turned speculative capital against us.
The EU funds made available must be used for top priority projects and be distributed fairly among Member States, taking into account, however, any special cases.
In addition, among the measures which need to be adopted, those concerning the adoption of a legislative framework to effectively combat tax havens are an absolute must.
At the same time, however, we must closely analyse the beneficial effects which aid like this can have with regard to using labour, bearing in mind the situations where this aid is more than necessary.
Connecting up all the gas and energy networks in Europe ensures that the principle of solidarity is applied: a Member State will be able to import, or even export, natural resources in normal conditions, even during a crisis.
In this context, Member States must use the funding opportunities offered by the Structural Funds to develop projects in areas such as infrastructure, energy and the environment.
To improve the quality of these projects and the effective impact of their implementation, EU Member States must avail themselves of the maximum technical assistance which the European Commission can offer.
I welcome the speed which the EU institutions have shown in identifying some solutions to the current economic crisis.
We cannot announce EUR 250 million for Nabucco, then say that we are cutting funding by EUR 50 million, and finally conclude that this should actually be a purely private investment.
Consequently, I would like to draw attention to the need to find solutions ensuring a better vertical involvement of regions at European level.
In the conditions created by the current extraordinary economic situation, I would like to emphasise the importance of improving flexibility in terms of accessing the Structural Funds.
I also welcome extending the opportunity of support to investments in energy efficiency and renewable energies in the housing and clean technology sectors.
The Commission considers the initial results to be good and estimates that recovery action at national and European levels together will have an overall value equivalent to around 3.3% of GDP in the period 2009-2010.
The EU needs to take a new, ambitious step that constitutes a continuation of the Lisbon Strategy.
The EU needs a stimulus package that gives support to new industries as a basis for competitiveness and growth.
The crisis is also an opportunity to steer economic growth along an entirely new avenue, based on renewable energy sources and energy efficiency.
The European economy is suffering the effects of the global financial crisis, seeing the greatest and most serious decline in the last 60 years.
Europe cannot just be the sum of 27 national interests.
At a time of economic crisis, it should be clear to us that we must concentrate on the Lisbon objectives, particularly in the area of employment.
The financial resources of EU Cohesion Policy for the period 2007-2013 can significantly help to fulfil the objectives of the EU's renewed Lisbon Strategy for growth and employment, which brings together ordinary people, companies, infrastructure, the energy sector and research and innovation.
I firmly believe that investments in innovation, new technologies and eco-innovations will bring the new opportunities which are essential for securing an effective response to the current financial crisis.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Ferreira, for a relevant and timely report.
It is regrettable that the majority of Member States that are entitled to receive support from the Structural and Cohesion Funds in the new financial perspective have been unable to utilise those funds.
The question of what action the European Commission plans to take regarding advance payments is very important.
In the case of some Member States, including the Baltic States, Romania or Hungary, the financial crisis and global recession have highlighted structural imbalances which have accumulated during the periods of economic growth, based on inflows of direct foreign investments and external debt at rapid rates.
Any EU economic recovery plan must take into account that these countries need considerable external financing to be able to cover the deficit in the trade in goods and services.
The Council and European Commission have a definite responsibility to find solutions to produce the external financing that is required.
The faster, more flexible payments, at flat rates and in lump sums, proposed by the Commission, will allow the immediate implementation of projects in the areas of infrastructure, energy and the environment.
The proposal for a regulation from January 2009 for financing energy projects as part of the European Economic Recovery Plan does not contain financial allocations for energy efficiency in buildings.
Energy efficiency in buildings is an area which can generate roughly 500 000 jobs in the EU, improve citizens' quality of life, and contribute to sustainable economic development by promoting renewable energy sources.
Everyone can see that individual countries are undertaking rescue measures on their own, and that the centrally managed market worth five hundred million is not capable of having a real effect on the scale of the crisis.
