The previous government responded to the reasonable demands of the farmers with hundreds of rural tribunals, which were set up throughout the country and sentenced farmers in order to break their fighting spirit.
From this tribune we condemn the pogrom continuing even today of the fighters of the rural movement and we demand an immediate end to it.
It is very important for us to have the opportunity once again to discuss the European Union's relations with Latin America, and I am particularly pleased that we have the views of two very distinguished colleagues who know so much about the subject and who have committed themselves so enthusiastically and knowledgeably to strengthening our relations over the last few years.
The agreements which we are discussing today mark an extremely important step forward in our relations with Central America and with the Andean Community.
Negotiations were successfully and rapidly concluded after just two rounds in October 2003, and both agreements were signed on 15&#160;December in Rome.
These new agreements are ambitious.
First of all, they institutionalise and strengthen the political dialogue: the San Jose dialogue with Central America that was initiated in 1984 and the ministerial political dialogue conducted with the Andean Community that goes back to the 1996 Rome Declaration.
This is important, because the new areas addressed by the agreements reflect the very real concerns of both regions.
These political dialogue and cooperation agreements were seen as an intermediate step: the aim of the agreements is to create the conditions which would allow the negotiation of association agreements, including free trade agreements, in the future.
I would like to take this opportunity to underline the importance of the recently negotiated agreements as an instrument towards our common goal of negotiating association agreements with these regions in the future.
Regional integration remains of key importance: it can contribute to fostering political stability, economic and social development and social cohesion within each sub-region.
The Commission has always supported regional integration.
This support is not only one of words: under our regional programme for Central America, the Commission has approved one project in support of the Central American Customs Union worth EUR 8 million in 2001 and a second one in support of the regional integration institutions and the involvement of civil society in the process of regional integration worth EUR 15 million in 2003.
The Community budget spends about EUR 0.15 per capita in Asia, while three times that much per capita is spent in Latin America.
I have been particularly pleased in recent weeks to be able to discuss our relationship with representatives of Mercosur, with all the foreign ministers of the Andean Community and with representatives of Central America.
I very much hope that we will be able to have a successful summit to follow up the one in Madrid, which will focus on regional integration and social inclusion.
They clearly demonstrate a concern and a sense of priority, and I would like to say to him that the assessment of this Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the Central American region will essentially depend on one factor, and that is what prospects this period the Commissioner has described as transitional will open up.
From our point of view, and on the basis of this Parliament’s Resolution of 15 November 2001, this type of political and cooperation agreement must open the way to preparing association agreements which include a free trade treaty, in accordance with the intense aspirations of our Central American partners and, in my view, fully in accordance with the political, economic and commercial interests of the European Union.
In other words, the key question is whether a period of negotiations is really being opened up for an association agreement with the Central American countries, and also with those of the Andean Community, of a similar nature, to those reached with Mexico and Chile, and the one which is being negotiated with Mercosur, as a prelude to a more general strategic perspective which should lead to a global interregional agreement and the creation of a Euro-Latin American free trade area.
Commissioner, I would like the Guadalajara Summit in May to clearly open up a stage in which the implementation of this Agreement is handled with the greatest possible will, which also involves maintaining the commercial facilities enjoyed by the countries of that region, within the system of generalised preferences and the special ‘drugs’ system, and, above all, that there be a specific commitment made to negotiating a genuine association agreement.
On 19 March a meeting was held between a large delegation of Members of this Parliament and representatives of the Latin American Parliament and its President, representatives of the Andean Parliament and its President, representatives of the Central American Parliament and its President and representatives of the Parliamentary Commission of Mercosur and its President as well.
That is to say, a meeting of parliamentarians which represented more than a billion citizens of Europe and Latin America.
On the area of political dialogue and will, because – let us make no mistake – it is political will which has driven these relations forward over recent years, and we are therefore proposing the creation of a Euro-Latin American parliamentary assembly, somewhat similar to the Assembly which has been established in the field of Euro-Mediterranean relations.
We are proposing to renew and update the ministerial political dialogue, to agree in international fora and in the United Nations system between European and Latin American positions and also to sign a Euro-Latin American Charter for peace and security with a view to creating a forum in which we can deal seriously with issues relating to security and defence, which currently have no specific forum.
Above all, we are proposing a renewal of the bi-regional political agenda in order to be able to discuss issues such as those relating to terrorism, the issue of the reform of the United Nations system, the threats to governability, a review of the fight against poverty and many other initiatives.
Nevertheless, Commissioner, political dialogue, however thriving it is, will end and come to nothing unless we translate words into actions.
We are therefore proposing that, at the Guadalajara Summit, specific dates be indicated for the association of the Andean and Central American countries, without subjecting them to discriminatory conditions which have not been imposed on other countries or groups of countries, and there are grounds for a debate here – you have referred to integration – on whether integration should be a prior condition or whether it would follow on from association.
In this regard – and you know what Parliament’s thinking is – Parliament has insisted on having a differentiated legal framework and we also believe that we must promote an entire range of policies in the field of education, culture, vocational training and scientific and technological cooperation.
We believe that this must be interpreted flexibly and incorporated into the Commission’s initiatives, but we also believe that this initiative must take advantage of the financial opportunities offered by both the European Investment Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank.
These more committed policies gave the European Union great visibility, ending the century with the negotiation of an association agreement with Mexico, which was a milestone in the European Union's policy.
Meanwhile, the United States is extending and continuing bilateral negotiations aimed at consolidating its position in the region – which, furthermore, is nothing new – with the same countries from which the European Union is demanding the signature of a hypothetical association agreement as a prior condition for regional integration.
As has already been said, the city of Puebla has recently been the venue for the meeting between European Members of Parliament and the Parliaments of Latin American political integration.
The agreements we are analysing today are undoubtedly more ambitious than those signed in 1993.
We are talking about countries with difficulties, with levels of poverty which are so high that that poverty may come to threaten internal peace, but which, at the same time, have extraordinary potential, which are culturally close to us and which see us as a model of opportunity.
That is why we regret the lack, in these proposals, of attention to an integrated economic and social development strategy, which, needless to say, is what that region deserves.
First of all, a partnership-oriented agreement on cooperation with the Andes countries can help defuse the explosive political and social situation in the region.
Over the past fifteen years, more than two million people have been driven out of their homes in that country, and there is an enormous humanitarian need.
We need to step up our efforts in order to find a solution, with political means, for the armed conflicts, and to restore peace and social justice.
The social situation in the Andes countries deserves more attention.
In Ecuador, the region's poorest country, this percentage is even higher than 50%.
In the Central American countries, on average, a third of the population has to live on less than USD 2 a day.
In Nicaragua, only four years ago, 10% of the poorest Nicaraguans accounted for less than 1% of total consumption, while 10% of that country's richest inhabitants took up more than half of total consumption.
Malnutrition has been a serious problem for years in those countries, and it has got even worse in Guatemala.
In the political dialogue, the Commission remains focused on the governments and their machinery.
Consequently, the EU should not only broaden the scope of the political dialogue by adding more partners, but should also complement it by integrating social and economic strategy as a priority. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Patten has defined these agreements with two words: ‘strategy’ and ‘transitional’.
The debate on the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreements between the European Union and Central America and the Andean Community are a good example of the current situation of our relations with these countries, which I, in addition to the words you have used, would say is currently unsatisfactory.
In reality, over recent years our relations with these areas of the world have not progressed in the way this Parliament would have liked.
The crisis facing the Andean countries as a whole and in each one of them individually has not been helpful in terms of improving these relations.
Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia are experiencing very difficult times which have hindered their processes of sub-regional integration, and this has not made it easy to make progress on our relations with them.
The same can be said of Central America, where huge swathes of the population, young people in particular, who are increasingly marginalised and turning to crime as a result of their social marginalisation, are becoming an urgent problem for these small Central American States.
I hope that the agreement with Mercosur, which is on the point of being signed, if things go ahead as planned, will be added to those in force with Chile and with Mexico and that these two regions can benefit from more ambitious agreements, the results of which will not be seen by the current Commission and Parliament, but by our successors. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Parliament cannot raise any objection to these agreements, and that is quite simply because they are two proposals entirely devoid of content.
We are all in favour of cooperation, of exchanges, of the development of democracy etc., but there is nothing tangible in these agreements.
This is happening, furthermore, at a time when Latin America, despite its difficulties, is experiencing a period of stability, that is to say, there is some lack of stability but, despite the poverty – which Mr van den Berg referred to – Latin America today is generally speaking a peaceful and calm subcontinent.
There are no international conflicts, there are internal conflicts, but they are on a very small scale compared to those during the eighties, and I have the impression that this is the time for us to effectively help the good people of Latin America to move forward.
In order to do this, however, we firstly need a specific policy with regard to the region.
Despite this limitation, they very clearly express Parliament’s position on the need for the agreements to go beyond what is known as ‘political dialogue and cooperation’ and become genuine association agreements.
As a matter of fact, these two reports and four opinions received only three votes against, with the opinions of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy preventing unanimity.
We feel that what is at stake is the concept of cooperation and we would, therefore, like to go further, as advocated in the opinions of the Committee on Development and Cooperation.
It is indeed regrettable that these agreements are geared towards preparing a political framework that makes matters dependent on free trade agreements and that there is no understanding of these agreements as being part of an integrated strategy for economic and social development to combat poverty.
The ACP countries are attempting to prevent this in the economic partnership agreements and, amongst other issues, to prevent various forms of liberalisation being imposed in areas for which they are attempting to find solutions that are best suited to their national situations, specific characteristics and processes.
In particular, we are talking here about public services, the fields of health, education and water supply – particularly the latter, because this is crucial to many of these countries.
However, this is a policy that is not democratic, with violent intimidation leading to the withdrawal of candidates in 100 municipalities at last October's elections.
The countryside is flooded with military personnel, and orders have gone out to kill people in groups of four or less in a sickening attempt to reduce the number of recorded massacres without any real diminution in the grisly death toll afflicting the country.
The poverty of the populations is extreme, but it is on the issue of unfair distribution of wealth that we must speak out and help our parliamentary colleagues to act … &#160;&#160; The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on: - Recommendation for second reading (A5-0131/2004) by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the common position of the Council with a view to adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the hygiene of foodstuffs (rapporteur: Horst Schnellhardt); - Recommendation for second reading (A5-0129/2004) by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the common position of the Council with a view to adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin (rapporteur: Horst Schnellhardt); - Recommendation for second reading (A5-0130/2004) by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the common position of the Council with a view to adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council repealing certain directives concerning food hygiene and health conditions for the production and placing on the market of certain products of animal origin intended for human consumption and amending Council Directives 89/662/EEC and 92/118/EEC and Council Decision 95/408/EC (rapporteur: Horst Schnellhardt); - Recommendation for second reading (A5-0138/2004) by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the common position of the Council with a view to adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down specific rules for the organisation of official controls on products of animal origin intended for human consumption (rapporteur: Horst Schnellhardt). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commission representatives, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by personally thanking the representatives of the Commission and Council for their excellent cooperation over the last two years.
The proposals build on tried and tested practices with additional measures for greater food safety, but the crucial thing is that they are a new legislative concept.
The choice of a regulation, which means that the same text applies everywhere in the European Union, was a decisive step for greater coherency and less bureaucracy.
Parliament’s efforts to limit the scope for amending the annexes in the comitology procedure must also be seen as part of this approach for stability and legal certainty.
We have found a more or less acceptable arrangement.
Legal certainty must be the main concern.
We do of course need flexibility as well to be able to respond to new dangers and new situations.
The introduction of the ‘from farm to table’ principle, self-inspection by businesses with the use of the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) principle and of guides, and the greater attention paid to scientific findings are the essence of the new approach.
However, the new system also takes account of the type of production process and the guarantees offered by the food business operator.
They are, however, only permitted for traditional production methods in difficult remote areas, that is, in places where remoteness of location or the mountainous nature of the region brings its own problems, and of course where local markets are supplied.
The great variety of means of production in the European Union can be taken into account.
I will mention only in passing that the Council and Commission have slightly watered down the ‘from farm to table’ principle in as much as the HACCP procedure will not be mandatory in primary production.
I believe we have managed to find a wise solution here, too, in leaving the arrangements to the Member States.
In accordance with this ‘low requirements for low risk’ approach, however, we should give small businesses the assurance that evidence of the results of the HACCP principle can be provided in a form acceptable to the firm.
The official veterinarian is central to the proposed system of official supervision of meat production.
That is why it is important that Parliament has included the basic tasks of official controls in Article 3.
In some Member States, however – and that is already evident – this will require a change to veterinary training.
Let me make this clear: with their current staffing levels the authorities will not be able to check three times in six months that an establishment meets the approval requirements.
The involvement of businesses in food safety matters also requires greater flexibility on the competent authority’s part.
Some say, for example, that this rule will not help us in what we have always been trying to do, that is, to improve food safety indeed, that it will have quite the opposite effect.
The establishment’s staff are dependent on the head of the establishment.
I think, gentlemen of the Council, that we should agree here to come back to this and try to clarify it in perhaps two or three years’ time.
Since this regulation brings much that is new to the Member States and will require a lot of adjustment by all concerned, we should first apply it for two or three years and then concentrate on this question again.
As the Commissioner has now arrived, I would like to repeat what I said at the beginning: my sincere thanks to you and your colleagues for your extraordinarily close cooperation in working on the texts of these regulations.
Almost four years have gone by since the Commission presented this package.
In summary, we are pursuing four objectives.
The first objective is to adapt hygiene legislation to the general principles of food law set out in the White Paper on food safety.
The second objective is to make the existing rules more science- and risk-based.
The discussions on the package have taken a long time, both in Council and in Parliament.
This long period gave ample time to reflect on the proposals and the time is now ripe to conclude the debate and adopt the legislation.
The Council's common position is, in the Commission's view, a fair compromise that clearly reflects the views of Parliament.
With a view to addressing the points set out in these amendments, the Commission has contributed to the establishment of a compromise between the Council's position and that of Parliament.
Discussions on such a compromise were successfully completed and Coreper has already endorsed it.
Amendments reflecting this compromise package have also been tabled for the vote later today.
The common position, approved unanimously by the Council, foresees the possibility of slaughterhouse staff carrying out some inspection tasks.
The decision as to whether to apply the system will be taken by the Member States on a case-by-case basis.
Moreover, the proposed regulation contains a number of very strict rules that guarantee the independence of the controls.
These include in particular that the slaughterhouse staff involved in meat inspection must be independent from production staff and must report directly to the official veterinarian.
I would like to stress that the system has already functioned satisfactorily for more than ten years for poultry meat and rabbit meat in most Member States.
Taking account of these elements, the proposal to extend the system to veal and fattening pigs is proportionate and fully in line with the objectives of the proposed legislation I outlined to you a couple of minutes ago.
The Commission is willing to go along with the compromise proposal put forward by the Council that would defer the entry into force of the system for another three years.
The Commission cannot, however, support Amendments Nos 9 and 14, which the rapporteur is recommending that Parliament support.
Should these amendments be adopted, conciliation would appear inevitable.
The Commission can accept all amendments to the common position that are part of the compromise package negotiated with the Council.
The Commission cannot support amendments falling outside this package.
I would like to draw attention to one particular point in the first Schnellhardt report on general food hygiene.
In such cases, verbal information is enough and that is why, in the negotiations, we pressed very hard for the documentation requirement for small businesses to be toned down in line with the risk associated with this type of production.
We have, however, reached compromises on many points, especially in the first report, and we are therefore able to back the reports with a clear conscience. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is customary at the beginning of our speeches for us to express gracious sentiments about the good working relationship with the rapporteur.
I therefore urge everyone to support the compromise that we have reached with the Council and to prevent us from adopting the amendments by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, for that is not the right way to go about things. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are now close to the end of almost five years of work on trying to obtain safer food in Europe.
I wish to thank him for his cooperation.
There are a couple of small aspects about which I am extremely concerned, for example when it comes to the definition of cutting plants.
A compromise depends, however, upon both give and take by the parties concerned.
Otherwise, we support these recommendations and are very pleased that we have reached this agreement.
It is perhaps we who have been most industrious in these matters.
The key issues for my Group at the first reading were basically the direct marketing of food on the farm or at local retailers and flexibility for the processing of traditional products.
The problem for my Group with the compromise package now proposed by the Council is where the latter insists on extending controls by slaughterhouse employees to include pigs and calves.
It would allow self-policing and it could end up with a blind eye being turned in certain circumstances, depending on how productive some of the slaughterhouses are: so this is not a good idea.
That is the key issue for us as regards this report.
If we look at the compromise position proposed by the Commission, the Council’s response and Parliament’s own position, it is clear that, as with all compromise and mediation positions, everyone would always like something extra.
I believe, however, that this is a very sensible compromise position because it is a compromise between the demands of producers and those of consumers, between good business and safeguarding the basic right of citizens to safe, healthy food and produce.
We should have preferred it, of course, if the regulation on the hygiene of foodstuffs provided for a perhaps more forceful implementation of the HACCP system and probably referred more closely to the .
We should probably also have liked greater insistence on the ‘from farm to table’ principle, a principle that is very attractive to consumers but which needs to be made much clearer and involves additional costs to the farming sector.
Some of the issues have been more difficult than others.
However, there is a need for an independent inspectorate to keep a close eye on certain sectors, such as the work in abattoirs and slaughterhouses across Europe, where there is a lot of time pressure and pressure to perform and where there is evidence to suggest a potential public health risk – most notably in the red-meat sector.
Whilst I do not know anyone who eats raw rabbit or raw poultry, I know many people – some are Members of the European Parliament – who eat red meat that is either raw or close to raw.
Consequently, there is a greater and more serious health risk in that sector than in meats that are cooked before being consumed by the public.
All of us realise the importance of these public health measures: we need only recall the terrible food poisoning incident that took place in Scotland owing to the contamination of red meat only a few years ago.
We have got to protect public health. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to echo the words of thanks that have been expressed not only to the rapporteurs, but also to the shadow rapporteurs.
There are quite a few snags in the compromise package that the Council and the Commission have tabled and which was rubberstamped by Parliament.
I would therefore urge the House to support the Council's compromise. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to concentrate on the threat posed by the Commission's proposals in terms of the privatisation of the independent meat inspectorate in the United Kingdom.
This issue has been raised, not only by the Consumers' Association, but also by the UK trade union Unison, which represents meat inspectors.
The feeling is that the Commission's proposal would allow privatisation through the back door by placing the responsibility for hygiene in abattoirs on the meat plants themselves.
When visiting a meat plant some months ago I was reassured that the quality of meat was of the highest standard and that the meat inspectors played an important role in securing quality and safety.
We do not want the disease to be in the details as well.
I am not so sure it has, and if he sees the Consumers' Association survey of the conditions in which chicken is being packaged and sold, he will see that there is room for doubt and concern even here.
It is not a reflection on the hard work and dedication of the staff who are employed in slaughterhouses.
On this and this alone I believe that we have reason to go beyond the common position for safety's sake. &#160;&#160; I thank all colleagues who have contributed to this very pleasant debate.
This is reflected by the wide participation in the debate and in part by the large number of amendments tabled.
The Commission proposal aims to achieve significant improvement in the welfare of transported animals.
It focuses in particular on long journeys, as it is these journeys that are most likely to cause problems.
It seeks to introduce clearer and upgraded standards, as well as stronger enforcement rules.
I am sure it does not fulfil the wishes of the ardent proponents of both sides of the animal welfare debate, but I am quite sure that if introduced now it would implement major improvements in the transport conditions of animals that have been the dream of animal welfare enthusiasts for years.
I have indicated that I am willing to participate in constructive dialogue with a view to reaching a speedy agreement and an early improvement of transport conditions.
The Commission proposes to replace the current rules by a simple scheme for all species involving a nine-hour maximum travelling time, to be followed by a minimum of twelve hours' rest if the journey is to be continued.
Hence, enforcement should be much more straightforward – a crucially important aspect of this legislation as far as I am concerned.
However, let me be very frank: I cannot accept amendments which have as their practical effect a ban on the transport of live animals whether for slaughter, further rearing or breeding purposes.
However, before I add my own comment to the new animal transport directive, I should like to dwell briefly on an event in my own country, namely the departure of our Queen Mother, Princess Juliana.
I would like to commemorate her today at the start of this debate and commiserate with her family and with all those who will miss her.
The review of Directives 64/432/EEC and 93/119/EC on the transport of animals has been rather a long time coming.
Given the proposed time limits of nine hours in transit and twelve hours rest, with unlimited repeats of this cycle, and the very generous expansion of space allowance per animal, one can confidently conclude that transport in excess of nine hours would become unaffordable.
As rapporteur, however, I distance myself somewhat from that approach, because it does not do any justice to the already difficult income situation in cattle farming and because the limitation of the risks of animal diseases and the regularisation of the slaughter practice are insufficiently addressed.
Thirdly, with regard to productive cattle and traditional systems for fattening animals, I suggest a transport limit of 30 hours, including eight hours rest, but no unloading at staging places.
In general, however, the transport conditions for this group are already excellent.
Fifthly, I would like to see rest periods and driving times in existing EU directives for the transport sector coupled to fresh legislation.
The fact that especially this latter point is no unnecessary luxury has, , been demonstrated in unannounced road checks in Austria, where no less than 50% of the animal hauliers appeared to break the law.
I would therefore urge my fellow MEPs to support Amendments Nos 1 to 97 inclusive, Amendments Nos 109, 110, 111, 112 and 115.
If the Council adopts this proposal, cattle farming in Europe will not be squeezed out of the market and animal welfare will enjoy a structural improvement.
The rest period on the vehicles, for example, is completely impractical.
A rest period on a vehicle cannot be considered as a rest period for a number of reasons.
It would be very difficult to water and feed those animals unless the vehicle is equipped to make that possible.
In relation to fraud in export refunds – an issue that came up during last night's sitting and in the media recently – one of the ways to avoid that would be to get rid of export refunds.
The vast majority of European citizens do not want their money used to subsidise the inhumane transport of animals, which causes untold and unnecessary suffering.
We must ensure that animals are not subjected to unnecessary suffering, and this is clearly unnecessary.
It is a very emotive issue, nowhere more so than in the UK.
I would also like to thank him straight away for co-sponsoring my amendments to ask the Commission and the UK Government to look for an opt-out, especially on the transport of live horses to the continent for slaughter.
A lot of these cattle are going to Lebanon, and their journeys do not end there: they continue for a great many hours after that.
This would send a very clear message to the industry that you cannot abuse the system.
Only because of the rapporteur’s persistence and huge efforts have we got so far as to have the report on the agenda for this part-session.
On behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I have tabled an amendment that limits the journey time for animals for slaughter to eight hours.
There was no majority for this in the committee, but hopefully there will be a majority for it during the vote.
Why should animals intended for slaughter have more right to well-being than those intended for fattening?
As far as I am aware, according to the Treaties, all men are equal, and animals as well.
That the EU can continue to allow animals to be transported across Europe for many hours – sometimes over 40 or 50 hours, sometimes up to 90 hours – is completely unacceptable, both from an animal welfare point of view and from the point of view of trying to prevent the spread of disease.
Not only that, but the United Kingdom Government has also completely failed to guarantee to protect our horses from being exported to the continent for slaughter.
These are hugely important issues and we must make sure that our parliamentary response addresses them properly. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the EU is the reason for the long journey times for animals.
The implementation of the internal market has required the elimination of the veterinary borders.
There must be legislation in relation to the internal market.
It must be possible to devise more far-reaching national rules governing the transport of animals and the equipping of vehicles.
This will be effective in limiting livestock diseases, and it will decisively reduce the number of long journeys so that, as a minimum, the longest journeys will be of eight hours.
That is necessary in order constantly to evaluate whether the journeys have been defensible in terms of the animals’ welfare.
The expenses linked to this aspect of livestock production must be defrayed in the form of a charge paid by the haulage contractors to the local authorities.
The major repercussions that its wording could have on our transporters and breeders are of little importance to the Commission.
This gap will certainly be filled in the next draft regulation submitted to us by the Commission.
Today, however, the problem of regulating the various aspects of transport has become a major component of legislation in the animal production sector.
Animal welfare during transport more directly involves operators other than farmers, even though the latter often suffer its consequences, both upstream, when they receive the animals to be added to their holdings, and downstream, because of the effects that transport can have on quality and hence on the return they get for their products.
Legislation protecting livestock during transport, in particular the regulation on which we are preparing to vote, is based on scientific and technical evidence.
In this specific instance, we recall the studies following the report by the Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Animal Welfare, which took into account over 300 sources and drew up 55 recommendations.
If we consider the five freedoms mentioned in the Bremmer report in 1995, we realise that the unloading, loading and moving operations will have a profound effect on each of these five freedoms.
There is no doubt that transport can have a great many adverse effects on animals, but the whole situation must be analysed in technical terms for the good of both the animals themselves and the operators. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the objective of this Directive, which is to ensure that animals are transported in dignified conditions, deserves all our support, but we want all decisions we adopt in this regard to be based on scientific and technical criteria.
A rest of 12 hours for animals in the vehicle blatantly violates the welfare and dignity of the animals being transported, but the restriction of nine hours’ transportation also blatantly violates the principle of the internal market.
We therefore believe that the coherent and correct solution or proposal will be to establish the obligation for two drivers, with a cycle of nine hours which would allow for a brief rest in order to be able to continue another cycle of nine hours in the transportation.
I am particularly grateful that both the Commission proposal and the report recognise the practicalities of transporting animals in remote and island regions, such as the Highlands and Islands of Scotland.
Other than in the most exceptional circumstances, eight hours on the road should be sufficient for slaughter and the recommendation in the report to promote the use of local slaughterhouses should make these circumstances less likely.
Our Amendment No 105 seeks to place a limit on these, but one that is still consonant with reasonable farming practices. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is good that greater attention is to be paid to animal welfare requirements in future by shortening transport times and improving transport conditions.
That really would be in the animals’ interests, and it would also make it more difficult for dangerous animal diseases to spread and reduce environmental pollution from carbon dioxide emissions.
Most people think it is uncivilised to drive animals hundreds or even thousands of kilometres across Europe and the world for slaughter.
Transports of slaughter animals should be limited to four hours.
The report says the cross-border transport of animals is necessary because of the unequal distribution of resources and demand, owing to geographical and historical factors.
The main reason is the policy of liberalisation and concentration, which is destroying regional trade patterns.
What the report says about giving priority to slaughter close to place of rearing, financial support for local slaughterhouses or the use of mobile slaughterhouses will be impossible to achieve in a European Union of 25 Member States.
The reality is different.
Monitoring animal transports from space by satellite positioning may be a very interesting technology, but it is just one method of surveillance, of which in my view we have too many.
Transport times of 90 hours are not uncommon.
My group, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, wants to put a stop to this.
For my group, precisely the opposite is the case, and a huge number of Dutch people and Europeans are on our side.
We have to stand firm on our views, give a clear message and not give in at this stage, for otherwise, alas, the Council will make an even worse job of it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to comment on the Commission recommendation concerning staging posts when live animals are being transported from one Member State to another within the Union.
Whilst the welfare of animals being transported from one jurisdiction to the next must be of paramount importance, I do not believe the policy direction proposed by the Commission to Parliament with regard to this measure is correct.
Staging posts were originally introduced as a disease-control measure when the problems concerning BSE were first discovered.
A lot of research has been carried out in Ireland on the merits or demerits of staging posts in general, and studies by leading agricultural research institutes have shown that it is better for animal welfare on long journeys between Ireland and the continent that staging posts remain.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development recently approved an amendment which stated that the competent authorities in each Member State shall identify a sufficient number of suitable unloading premises and notify the European Commission at regular intervals.
The provision of proper conditions for live animals moving from one Member State to another must be guaranteed.
I for one believe that the retention of staging posts is of key importance in this regard, and I am certainly not alone in this view. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as long as people eat meat the treatment of farm animals will be the subject of lively debate.
The provision of a review clause would be helpful and I trust the Council will introduce this. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 95% of live animal transports are by road and we are all familiar with the images of tormented animals confined in a very narrow space for days on end as they are transported across Europe and beyond.
I support the proposals made in this report that will help to improve standards in live animal transports, such as setting minimum standards for the vehicles used, but above all the introduction of additional supervisory measures, because however good the rules may be, they will not work if there are no controls.
Amendment No 2, of which I am a co-signatory, is designed to clarify the term ‘journey’ in order to prevent the maximum duration of transport being exceeded by the back door, so to speak.
The vote has been brought forward to today.
We must be clear that sales-based support for live animal exports is an incentive and that we are therefore deceiving ourselves if we want to cut animal transports to a minimum so long as such support continues. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President,I too would like to thank the rapporteur for producing an excellent report.
The circumstances in Finland are the ones I know best, especially in the sparsely populated areas of the north.
Keeping animals on vehicles during long breaks or unloading them periodically is impossible.
We shall vote in favour of the Member States being entitled both to introduce and to retain national rules that are stricter than the EU rules in this area.
That applies not only to journey times.
We recommend that an absolute maximum of eight hours be introduced for journeys and that it should not be possible to circumvent this time regulation with reference to rest time in the vehicles that are being used for transportation.
We believe that the same rules should apply to all types of transport, irrespective of whether it is transport to slaughter or transport for fattening elsewhere.
Strict rules regarding this point are positive above all in terms of the animals’ well-being, but also because they will favour local abattoirs and the development of mobile abattoirs.
It means direct support for comprehensive cruelty to animals, with very long journey times.
Budgetary control is very deficient in this area.
Rather, we should focus on what in my view is the far more important issue of proper policing of the regulations and ensuring that the rules are as practical and as workable as they can be.
I would like to see the live trade ultimately replaced by a carcass trade, with animals slaughtered locally.
Some aspects of the problem involve animal health, as has already been mentioned.
That would apply both to slaughter animals and to those intended for fattening.
The avoidance of unnecessary animal transports and the protection of animals during transport are fundamental concerns of agriculture, especially of farmers and producers.
It must all remain within a sensible economic context and it must also comply with the European Union’s laws.
It is of course in everyone’s interest – farmers, animal welfare and the animals themselves – that animals should arrive at their destination safe and sound and in the best possible condition.
This is particularly the case of animals for slaughter because the quality of the meat depends on it.
An international organisation called PETA is currently mounting a large-scale campaign in Austria, and I believe in other Member States as well, about the keeping and slaughter of farm animals.
That is an insult to all those who perished in the Holocaust, and I ask you to protest against it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Commission has given its proposal for a regulation the title ‘Protection of animals during transport’.
In my view, that cannot be called protection of animals during transport.
Nor do I think that the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development remedies the Commission’s proposal, and I therefore hope that, in the vote, Parliament will stick to the position it has, moreover, held for two years that the transport of animals to slaughter or for fattening should not be for periods in excess of eight hours or for distances in excess of 500 kilometres.
I am, moreover, also able to support our obtaining better conditions for animals during transport.
I believe that these would be some of the most effective measures that could be implemented.
Finally, I also think that individual countries must be entitled to give higher priority to animal welfare and so to lay down more restrictive rules than those proposed by the Commission.
I hope that the majority of Parliament will show that it is considerations of animal welfare that are crucial in connection with the transports. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the problem here is that Member States fail to enforce the rules in far too many instances.
We will find many instances of dead animals being left amongst live animals on journeys taking many days.
Animal welfare is central to the ethos and the profession of farming, and I am amazed that there are always people in this House who would like to convey an alternative impression.
Animal transport is central to Ireland's agricultural economy.
The retention of staging posts is important and the question of density also has an impact on the economics of transport.
The provision of staging posts, therefore, is a central requirement.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has tabled an opinion to the same effect, but unfortunately, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has not adopted all recommendations.
For this, the rapporteur deserves all credit, but a number of important issues remain outstanding, and I should like to ask you to put this situation right.
I think we are accommodating these requirements with this report, but the driving times should also be restricted.
There is no reasonable explanation for the fact that transport of slaughter animals is being restricted, while that of animals destined for fattening is not.
We now have the opportunity to translate our requirements into legislation.
With proposals of four hours, in my region I cannot even get from one part to another, let alone participate in other international markets, which is my right. &#160;&#160; – The many opinions and different arguments show what a sensitive subject this is and what a sense of responsibility we need to show here.
That is why this report clearly calls for slaughter animals to be slaughtered within a 500 km radius.
Animals for fattening are counted as animals for slaughter, but I believe we should nevertheless make a distinction here.
In the end, that is the decisive factor and that is what will benefit the animals. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteur on the tremendous work he has done.
There is a difference between animals that are going for slaughter and animals that are continuing their journey, and there is a difference between cattle, sheep and pigs.
I know there are lots of differences between Member States and indeed between regions and I understand the concerns in remote areas, but we must address that.
Animals should always be slaughtered close to the place where they were reared.
The second hidden intention in this document is clearly to create a glass barrier, a new border for the countries of the East.
This concept is furthermore entirely in opposition to the general policies we are implementing on other points.
Above all, however, the intention is to dress everybody in the same suit: all animals in the same suit, like Chairman Mao’s suit.
We have therefore also tabled an amendment calling for the exclusion of certain animals, such as, for example, those for repopulation, wild animals, circus animals, because there is no doubt that a measure for animals for slaughter cannot be applied to all the others.
This is an impoverishment, a shackling, and goes against the ideas of sustainability, which are to adapt to reality and make things viable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I do not find the arguments advocating a restriction of the transport of animals to a certain number of hours to be appropriate.
The possible effects on the economy of regions and even whole countries could be very serious.
The current legislation is more than sufficient to safeguard the welfare of animals during transport.
The problem is not the existence of gaps in the legislation, which already covers all the requirements necessary to ensure comfort, but rather compliance with that legislation.
The new rules should be directed towards improving controls in order to ensure respect for the legislation, rather than taking advantage of a debate such as this one on the welfare of cattle in order to introduce stringent restrictions on the free movement of goods, particularly restrictions which will not have the same effect in all countries.
A restriction of the duration of journeys, without having made a prior in-depth impact study, is a measure which I would describe as clumsy and disproportionate, particularly if we bear in mind the harm that will be caused.
I would finally like to draw attention to another element of this debate whose effects could be entirely contrary to those pursued: the reduction of maximum densities, which are already laid down in the legislation.
This measure promotes aggressive behaviour amongst animals, as well as injuries due to the greater mobility of the cattle within the compartments of lorries.
We should consider very carefully our decisions on all the points of the legislation which are equally incongruous, and thereby prevent our work from simply causing greater burdens for the sector and isolating economic sectors of entire regions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is not the first time that this argument has caused lively debate and equally lively and difficult decisions in this Parliament.
With these new devices, more comfortable and especially longer journeys may be possible, although there must still be rest periods, which should in turn be increased to up to two hours.
Then there is a debate on the problem of unloading and reloading the animals, an operation which does not always achieve its intended aim, which is to help the animals rest.
The vote has been brought forward to today, but Members have not been made aware of it.
The public will be very surprised and will say yet again how undemocratic this European Union is.
She has made a clear distinction between humans and animals and I, too, would like to reject the disgusting comparison with the Holocaust.
For me, animals are God’s creatures and capable of suffering.
On travelling times, the European Parliament wants to introduce a fixed and final time limit of nine hours for slaughter animals, while allowing the others to travel with fewer restrictions.
In order to limit the transport of animals for slaughter, the European Parliament advocates the use of mobile slaughterhouses.
At present there is not enough expertise or practical experience to support this solution and the animal welfare advantages have not been clearly demonstrated.
Regarding the scope of the regulation, the European Parliament suggests a derogation for journeys of less than 100 km, as well as for certain categories of animals such as animals transported for sporting events and shows.
The Commission could support retaining the current derogation for journeys of less than 50 km, but there is no reason to exclude from the scope of the regulation other animals that are at risk of suffering poor standards of welfare.
I have consistently said that I would look at this matter with a view to supporting a legally sustainable text.
In relation to the authorisation of transporters and the pre-approval of vehicles, the European Parliament proposes having a single system for short and long journeys.
I believe that by removing the distinction between long and short journeys, the efforts of inspection and the administrative burdens would be diluted and animals transported over long journeys would not benefit from a higher degree of attention from the competent authorities.
The European Parliament suggests introducing the use of a satellite navigation system.
This idea is most innovative and the Commission fully supports it in principle.
I should add that the Commission proposal already includes a requirement to check the vehicles’ tachographs as a new enforcement tool.
The debate is closed.
The first is about a regulation under which we and everyone concerned – primarily the European Central Bank – will now receive quarterly information on Member States’ debt.
The second report is concerned with a regulation that is to provide us with quarterly national accounts data, specifically on the contribution made by the individual sectors ‘households’, ‘companies’ and ‘government’.
However, all countries whose gross domestic product is lower than 1% of the EU25 total will not have to report data on transactions in the households and companies sectors.
Those excluded are Luxembourg and all the new Member States except Poland.
Now you know what is involved and, as in the past, you can vote in favour of my two reports with a clear conscience.
They are my last reports for this legislative period, in which, counting today, I have spoken nine times on statistical reports.
I would make the same request in relation to the Lehne report.
Members will also wish to know that this concerns a case in which two Members of this House have been subjected to an injunction at the instance of to prevent them holding press conferences in this House criticising the conduct of in relation to the Members' Statute. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as you will be aware, the debate on this report only concluded just before the vote.
This is a very complex and important report.
There have been a number of problems regarding amendments such as the order of the amendments and how they have been grouped together.
Because of this complexity and because of the importance of the report, I would like to propose that the vote be delayed until tomorrow to give people more time to gather their thoughts and to take into account what the Commissioner and others have said this morning.
This report addresses the Commission proposal for a regulation that has arisen following the Court of Justice ruling on bilateral ‘open skies’ agreements between EU Member States and the United States of America.
The relevant part of the ruling states the opinion that these agreements contravened Community law, since the Member States did not have the right or competence to conclude agreements of this nature.
With this proposal, the Commission has proposed three measures: to provide a legal basis for relations between the Community and the United States in the field of air transport, to create a legal framework for ongoing negotiations and for all other agreements and to ensure an appropriate division of competences between the Community and the Member States.
The Commission proposed that the Member States should initiate procedures to terminate the agreements that they had concluded and asked the Council for permission to open Community negotiations with all the bilateral partners.
As regards matters lying partly within Community competence and partly within the competence of the Member States, the Commission proposed a common approach, in other words, close cooperation.
The Commission proposes a set of rules that the Member States must adhere to when negotiating and implementing air service agreements for this category of joint agreements requiring the participation of Member State governments.
This is a proposal that took several years to be adopted, following our parliamentary group’s insistence in the annual budgetary proceedings prior to 2002.
Bearing in mind the urgent nature of the situation, we supported this proposal to mobilise around EUR&#160;22&#160;million from the Fund to cover the damage caused by the storms and floods that occurred in Malta (September 2003), the forest fires in Spain (in the summer of 2003) and the floods in France (December 2003).
The EU must demonstrate full and prompt solidarity with regions in the Member States or candidate countries that are affected by natural disasters and alleviate the serious consequences of these disasters for people’s living conditions, the environment and for the economy.
For this reason, aid must be not only swift, but also visible in the appropriations provided.
Nevertheless, what could be considered to be a purely technical issue, which serves information purposes only, is closely linked to the support and direction given to economic policy and above all, to monetary policy in the European Union.
These are tools for adjusting economic policy decisions, since these policies prop up the single Economic and Monetary Union, which lacks precise statistical instruments.
This amendment seeks to ensure that the new Member States have longer exemption periods given the risk they face of a sudden increase in the cost of living.
Tax competition does have its benefits but, more importantly, this is an issue of tax sovereignty, with far-reaching implications for a State’s social and environmental choices and tax structure.
The rapporteur takes the view that ‘in order to avoid harmful tax competition, the acceding countries have to align their tax rates of excise duties with the minimum levels set within the European Union’.
This explains the report’s call to ‘all Member States, including the current ones’ to ensure compliance with ‘the deadlines set by the Directive and, as such, contribute to the development of the environment-friendly internal market’.
The desire of some Member States, particularly those with direct links to tax havens, to erode the tax base is at variance, however, with their desire to attract capital savings.
The most effective way of collecting savings income is to ensure the automatic exchange of information between tax administrations.
Unfortunately, difficulties remain in negotiations with other countries.
We must, however, go further.
We must work on ways of coordinating taxation in order to tax capital movements and cross-border stock transfers at Community level. &#160;&#160; My abstention in this vote is based on the opinion that I have always expressed on the agreement reached on 19 and 20&#160;June 2000 at the Santa Maria da Feira European Council which, in my opinion, can only lead to deadlock.
Some people constantly claim that abolishing banking secrecy is necessary to combat tax fraud and harmful tax competition.
Alongside banking secrecy, Switzerland, like my country, Luxembourg, has laid down very strict clauses on money laundering and financing of criminal activities.
In accordance with Article 10 of this agreement, Switzerland, and every Member State of the European Union, exchanges information on behaviour constituting tax fraud according to the legislation of the Member State concerned. &#160;&#160; The draft legislative resolution presented in the report renders meaningless the agreement reached at the Santa Maria de Feira European Council in June 2000.
This agreement makes the entry into force of the directive dependent upon the application of equivalent measures by Switzerland as well as by a number of other countries and dependent territories.
Implementing the provisions of Council Directive 2003/48/EC of 3&#160;June 2003, on the taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, will depend on the Swiss Confederation’s implementation of measures equivalent to those laid down in the aforementioned directive, in line with an agreement concluded between that country and the European Community.
Consequently, it is proposed that we should adopt the agreement between the Community and the Swiss Confederation, which provides for measures equivalent to those laid down in Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and the accompanying Memorandum of Understanding.
Regardless of what one might think of the proposals as a whole and given that we are seeking to create an internal market, one can understand the need to establish a degree of tax harmonisation to combat tax evasion and double taxation.
We do, however, have one fundamental objection to the approach that has been outlined, because the concept of tax harmonisation is federalist in nature and touches on one of the fundamental pillars of state sovereignty: a state’s ability to tax families and businesses, thus ensuring its autonomy.
The directive relates to interest payments and royalties transferred between associated companies with the aim of abolishing deductions from these payments at source.
This will confine itself, in future, to the role of a court of second instance relating to judgments delivered by the new court of first instance, with the Court of Justice intervening only in exceptional circumstances, in reviewing the judgments of the Court of First Instance.
Pursuant to Article 16 of the Protocol, the Grand Chamber, which sits in particular when a Member State or an institution of the Communities that is party to the proceedings so requests, consists of 11 judges.
It is proposed to increase the number of judges forming part of the Grand Chamber to 13, as well as maintaining the current quorum of nine judges.
The draft Council decision on which the European Parliament is being consulted seeks, therefore, to add these languages to the list contained in Article&#160;29(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice.
Its aim is to include, as a consequence of EU enlargement to encompass ten countries from Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean on 1&#160;May, the nine official languages of these countries – if not they are not already used – as working languages of the Court of First Instance.
Confirming and effectively implementing the principle of establishing all the languages of the European Union as official and working languages – as enshrined in the Treaties – is all the more important because, in the current context, we are seeing trends for the real and increasingly obvious dominance of some languages – those of the most populous countries – the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, Italy – to the detriment of the languages of the other countries that are members of the European Union.
The draft Council decision on which the European Parliament is being consulted seeks, therefore, to add these languages to the list contained in Article&#160;29(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice.
We also share this view, because it implies support for the fundamental principle of preserving the languages of the Member States as official languages of the Union.
For the purposes of the Directive, ungulates are those animals listed in Annex I.
Many of these species are not indigenous and are likely to be passing through the Community as part of circuses or zoo exchanges.
This proposal for a directive from the Commission seeks to strengthen and update the legislation governing the importation into the Community of wild and domestic animals susceptible to either FMD or CSF and, therefore, warrants our agreement in principle.
According to the rapporteur, this will enable the budgetary situation of Member States to be monitored more closely, emerging budgetary problems to be pinpointed earlier and a better understanding to be gained of the impact of efforts made by Member States.
The rapporteur could not have made herself clearer.
Indeed, it seems neither appropriate nor useful to be able to take action to limit the personal freedom of a Member of the European Parliament, even if on the basis of a judgment that has the force of without Parliament being informed of this and thus being able, if necessary, to take the necessary steps to express its opinion on reviewing the limits on its Members’ prerogatives.
Employers must determine and assess risks and inform the workers of these risks.
The participation, consultation and training of workers must also be encouraged. - where exposure above the limit values is detected, workers must have the right to a medical examination and to access their health records.
Should workers’ health be adversely affected as a result of such exposure, the employer must take steps to reassess the risks. - this directive must provide dissuasive sanctions to be applied by the Member States in the event of infringement of national legislation.
These rest primarily on the obligation incumbent on employers to determine and assess risks.
The rapporteur therefore considers that it would be desirable to reinstate the right to a medical examination in the event of overexposure and to strengthen the prevention system set up by the directive.
In other words, prevention is much better than cure and is, similarly, much better than compensation.
This excellent report seeks to establish a Community action programme to promote organisations active at European level in the field of equality between men and women.
The activities of these organisations will make it possible to carry out: – awareness-raising activities and dissemination of information, – actions to promote the reconciliation of private and professional life, and the participation of women in decision-making processes; as well as actions to combat violence against women, gender stereotyping and discrimination in the workplace, – and, lastly, measures to encourage cooperation with women’s organisations in third countries and to raise awareness of women’s issues around the world.
I voted in favour of this recommendation for second reading, which is the fruit of a compromise between the Council and Parliament.
The Council accepted various proposals by Parliament, but rejected the proposal to extend the deadline for the 2004-2005 programme until 2008 and to increase the budget from EUR&#160;2.222 million to EUR&#160;5.5 million.
This is all the more important because of the mechanisms of exclusivity that have led to situations of privilege and discrimination in favour of women’s organisations associated with the European Women’s Lobby.
At first reading, the rapporteur’s proposals sought to redress this imbalance, but the leftist dogma of the committee concerned saw to it that, once again, unequal treatment and opportunities in favour of women’s organisations prevailed.
The Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities should have a duty to provide a voice and a clear vision for the majority of women, for diversity and a plurality of opinions and interests.
The overall aim of EU policy on development cooperation should be to combat poverty and to eradicate it once and for all.
In order to combat poverty effectively – in addition to combating neo-liberalism – equal opportunities between men and women must be established, and women must also play a more active role in the field of politics.
At the 4th World Conference on Women, which took place in Beijing in 1995, a clear agenda was drawn up, aimed at promoting equal rights between men and women, for the first time.
Regulation (EC) No 2836/98 is the legal base for budget heading B7-6220 (21.02.06) on Integrating Gender issues in Development Cooperation.
Having expired on 31 December 2003, it must be replaced by the proposal before us.
I am, of course, unreservedly in favour of adopting measures that may contribute towards implementing the aims of helping the poorest people.
At first reading, I voted in favour of the report, because I was convinced that the rapporteur’s suggestions would help to fulfil these objectives.
Given that 20 of the 21 amendments tabled by Parliament were accepted by the Council and the Commission, I support this report.
A range of measures should be created for the hygiene of all food products in circulation in the Community, including imported goods, along with measures to increase the responsibility of food business operators.
While regulations should aim towards equal application across all Member States, there must be some degree of flexibility to take account of local variations.
This is true of Portuguese cheeses, such as cheese from the Serra da Estrela, given that changes in production conditions may adversely affect the flavour and quality of the product.
The central figure in the proposed system of official controls is the official veterinarian, who should be provided with both the legal and the technical means to carry out his duties, and this entails public funding.
I believe that the farm-to-table principle has now become a core principle which underpins all regulation in the food and feed area.
I certainly hope that the end result of all this legislation is to increase the responsibility of food business operators both in primary production and in subsequent stages of production.
In conclusion, our overriding aim in all of this must be to decide on the policy that best protects our consumers.
The intention is, therefore, to enforce hygiene rules at all stages, from the farm to the table.
The new legislative package is based on the HACCP system (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point).
The last Spring Council notified Parliament of its wish to complete this process before the forthcoming European elections.
The issue of information made available to investors is crucial, not in order to appease investors, but to ensure transparency and truth, which were both absent from the recent financial scandals involving Enron and Worldcom, along with Parmalat in Europe.
We have waited for a long time to adopt a directive on promoting equality between the sexes in areas other than work.
Discrimination based on sex is rife in the access to and supply of goods and services, both in the public and private sectors.
This proposal for a directive provides for prohibiting the use of gender as a factor in calculating insurance premiums and other financial services.
I consequently voted in favour of this proposal for a directive. &#160;&#160; By voting in favour of this report, I want to emphasise the need for a directive&#160;–&#160;based on Article 13 of the EC Treaty&#160;–&#160;on the equality of women and men in areas other than employment.
Vigilance does, however, remain appropriate, and fighting for genuine equality, actual equality between women and men in all areas of economic, social and political life, is a constant battle that must be continued.
Following significant misgivings and strong resistance on the part of several interest groups, in particular the media sector, the scope of this directive has been ‘watered down’ to only now cover access to, and supply of, goods and services, thus leaving aside other areas such as media and advertising content, education and the decision-making process.
I believe that it will serve to reinforce values and norms which are already well established in many Member States.
Ireland, for example, adopted the 'Equal Status Act' in 2000, and our legislation outlaws direct and indirect discrimination, including discrimination on grounds of gender, marital status and family status.
It is worth stating that, fortunately, equality between men and women is, today, a reality that is legally enshrined and widely enjoyed, apart from a few specific problems that still need to be ironed out.
With types of cover in which greater life expectancy works against the interests of the insurers, women are penalised for living longer.
Every year, three million animals are still being transported within Europe and to third countries.
If animals are to be slaughtered, this should be done as close to their place of rearing and fattening as possible.
I abstained in the vote on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of animals during transport because of the lack of integrity in the overall report.
The welfare of our animals deserves regulation that is based on best scientific practice.
Long journeys for animals must be reduced as far as possible, especially for transport to the slaughterhouse, for veterinary and animal welfare reasons, on the one hand, and for reasons of economic development, on the other.
We must also implement a harmonised framework, with travelling time limits for transporting animals for other purposes.
Before fattening or slaughtering, injured, starving and dehydrated animals are transported from one country to another.
The quality of transport conditions is vital.
This position is partly reflected in Amendments Nos 64 and 81. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the Bösch report on the protection of the financial interests of the Communities because it makes a useful contribution to the fight against fraud at European level.
In 1999, the Commission came into office promising a policy of zero tolerance as regards fraud and corruption, but today it is bequeathing to its successors half-suppressed scandals (Eurostat) and ‘an unprecedented welter of sometimes contradictory rules and newly established units and bodies, making turf wars and mutual buck-passing inevitable’ (paragraph 2).
Moreover, the Bösch report points out the extraordinarily high number of live cattle exported in 2002 to Lebanon (121&#160;027 tonnes) that benefited from financial export refunds.
Secondly, the report shows that the number of cases of fraud and irregularities reported in 2002 has risen by 13% to over EUR&#160;two billion, most of these under the Structural Funds.
The killing of the Hamas leader Sheikh Ahmed Yassin and seven other Palestinians by Israeli forces last week has resulted in outrage across the region.
The European Union looks forward to the transition to a representative Iraqi administration and is committed to working with the people of Iraq in securing a peaceful and stable future for that country.
There is a pressing need for action to address the various problems and challenges to peace and prosperity throughout the Middle East.
Historically, the European Union has enjoyed a close relationship with the countries of the southern Mediterranean and the Middle East, built up through centuries of intertwined history, commerce and exchange.
Indeed, through Euromed and the Barcelona Process, the Union has enjoyed a structured relationship with countries of the southern and eastern Mediterranean for ten years.
In the economic sphere we are working towards the establishment of a free trade zone with a market of 700&#160;million people by 2010.
The Union has also concluded Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreements with all but one of the Euromed countries, and I hope that the negotiations with the remaining country will be concluded soon so that the grid of arrangements can be completed.
I would urge all partners to expedite ratification of these agreements, which are an important instrument in developing economic relationships between the European Union and the Mediterranean countries.
An important element of our engagement has also been to promote democracy, good governance and the rule of law.
Although negotiations have been long, and at times difficult, they are now moving in the right direction.
It is clear that the Union already has a deep and close relationship with the countries of the Mediterranean and the Middle East.
In recognition of the importance of the region to Europe, the European Union is currently working to develop a Strategic Partnership with the Middle East and the Mediterranean following a mandate from the European Council in December 2003.
Security and stability is a shared interest of the countries of the region and of the European Union.
Our primary objective is to promote the development, through partnership, of a common zone of peace, prosperity and progress across the Mediterranean and into the Middle East.
The goal is to enjoy close and cooperative relations with all the countries of the region, responding as far as possible to initiatives from within the region itself.
The interim report proposes an EU Strategic Partnership with the Mediterranean and the Middle East.
It sets out a series of shared understandings held by the members of the Union with regard to relations with the region, proposes key principles and objectives which might inform our strategic partnership and proposes these together with work programmes for the Mediterranean and the Gulf as a means to implement our partnership.
Equally, there can be no 'one-size-fits-all' solution to the challenges facing the region.
We are actively consulting with partners in the region who are our key interlocutors.
This will be an essential element in preparing our final report for the European Council in June.
The presidency's commitment to consultation and dialogue remains absolute.
I have already commented on the need for progress in the Middle East Peace Process.
Implementation of the Quartet Roadmap remains the basis for reaching a lasting comprehensive settlement resulting in two viable, sovereign and independent states, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace and security.
Acts of violence by either side cannot contribute to advancing the political process necessary to reach such a settlement, and such acts, therefore, must be rejected.
The countries of the Mediterranean and the Middle East are facing a broad range of challenges politically, economically and socially.
Equally, those countries possess enormous potential which, if fulfilled, would result in benefits for all the peoples of the region.
Progress in all areas – economics, commerce, education, democracy and civil society – is essential if the conditions for lasting peace and stability across the region are to be achieved.
There are so many other things which Parliament has to discuss, but it is exceptionally important that today we should have a chance to discuss the Mediterranean and the Middle East because the directions we set for our policies in this region in the coming months should be thoroughly discussed and debated here; they involve fundamental decisions on how we are going to develop our relationship with our neighbours; and they involve fundamental decisions which will affect the whole relationship for the first part of this century between Europe and the Islamic world.
My friend and colleague from the presidency has explained very clearly the principles in the interim report adopted by the Foreign Ministers of the European Union last week and he explained how, through a series of intensive consultations with the region, they will form the basis of a concrete work programme to be presented to the European Council in June.
I would like, however, to underline that we are not starting from scratch: rather, we are building on a comprehensive partnership with the Mediterranean countries and a set of bilateral relations with the countries east of Jordan.
I would add here that Europe is the most significant player in the region.
The Community now spends close to EUR 1 billion a year in the region in promoting economic reforms, sectoral reform, institutional and political reform and in supporting sustainable development across the region, including our specific funds for supporting the Palestinians and for the reconstruction of Iraq.
The answer is two-fold: first of all, our approach is a long-term one which bears fruit incrementally, but I would venture that working on the basis of partnership, consultation and ownership of the reform process by reformers in the region will give us more solid and sustainable results than any attempts to impose democracy from the outside, whether through lectures or through the barrel of a gun.
Stalemate in the peace process in the Middle East has time and again stymied progress on reform.
Recent events are another sad but powerful confirmation that, as our report put it, it will not be possible to build a common zone of peace, prosperity and progress unless a just and lasting settlement of the conflict is in place.
But what we have witnessed lately is wickedness beyond imagination: for example, a frightened adolescent, explosives strapped to his body, is told that he will go to heaven and is sent out to kill himself and others at a military checkpoint.
My broader point is that if we are serious about wanting reform in the Arab World then, as the European Security Strategy states, resolution of the Arab-Israeli conflict remains a strategic priority.
But to attempt one without the other is, in my view, only too likely to prove a recipe for failure on both counts.
I regret, then, that the Arab League summit could not take place as planned, not least because it was expected to adopt a common declaration on domestic reform which would have been an important staging post in developing our common agenda.
I also believe that we now have a European Union position which we can take into consultations with the region with some confidence of generating new momentum in our relations with our Mediterranean and Middle Eastern neighbours.
I also hope that our friends across the Atlantic are recognising that our long-term, consensus-building approach has some value, based, as it is, on building common agendas that respect differences of approach in different countries and regions.
The Greater Middle East initiative from the United States generated controversy in the region, mainly because the objectives appeared to have been set without any real consultation process with the region.
In content, what they are suggesting could involve the development of American policy towards the region based on the kind of comprehensive and long-term engagement which we have been advocating and trying to implement for many years.
Time will tell, but whatever the results, the European Union should focus on developing its own strategic partnership with the region.
If we are successful, I believe we can make a significant contribution to fighting terrorism in Europe and in the region, one that is as important as the proposals to strengthen the European Union's internal security that I know will be discussed by Parliament tomorrow.
We spent last Thursday and Friday in the Council discussing what this extraordinary circle of democracies in Europe can do to protect our way of life, our prosperity, our values, our belief in the rule of law and in civil liberties and the lives of our citizens; and what we can do in Europe to prevent more of the terrorist atrocities which have driven daggers into the hearts of many European families.
There are many things we have to do internally.
There are many things we have to do in the areas of police and judicial cooperation.
But we all recognise as well that to bring peace to the Middle East would remove one of the causes of alienation in country after country which helps to provide a breeding ground for terrorism and for the murderous ideas that terrorists espouse.
So I hope that we will be able to work more enthusiastically and more successfully to bring peace to the Middle East, and that the beneficiaries of that peace will not only be the people of Israel and the people of Palestine, but the people of Europe and the wider world as well. &#160;&#160; It might be useful for me to point out to colleagues – as I did last week to the Conference of Presidents – that last week in Athens we successfully co-launched a partnership: the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly.
It is a partnership of 240 Members of Parliament: 120 from the partner states and the southern shore of the Mediterranean, 120 from the EU national parliaments and the European Parliament.
It is an important parliamentary aspect and a good platform to build on.
We need as a Parliament to ensure that future meetings are arranged at a time to enable the Council and the Commission to participate, because the parliamentary part is, and can be, an invaluable long-term development and communications platform. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, last Monday 22 March, there took place in Athens the inaugural session of this Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, of whose future importance in relations on both sides of the Mediterranean President&#160;Cox just reminded us.
This session marked the culmination of the efforts made immediately after 11 September 2001 to reach, on both sides of the Mediterranean, a better mutual understanding and to dispel the spectre of war between civilisations, which is a potential consequence of the downward spiral of blood and vengeance into which the barbaric supporters of indiscriminate terrorism are attempting to drag us.
This gave us another reason to reiterate, in the presence of the official delegations from Israel and Palestine, the urgent need to find a fair and lasting solution to the conflict in which they are embroiled and to emphasise how important it is for the European Council, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, to launch that strategic partnership for a common future with the Middle East on the subject of which you have just addressed us.
Let us be aware on our side of the Mediterranean that our future and that of our children and grandchildren will depend on the way in which we have been able to extend to Africa in general and to the Middle East in particular, that area of peace and stability that our founding fathers were able to establish on our continent.
Whether or not we wanted it to be, the United States is considered, rightly or wrongly, to have taken Israel’s side.
Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Mr&#160;Commissioner, can we begin to hope that this will might finally manifest itself other than through pious wishes? &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a grave hour at which we must work even harder to break the infernal spiral of violence in the Middle East.
Although Sheikh Ahmed Yassin was not one of our best friends, his assassination is a clear and flagrant violation of international law.
We also roundly condemn the murders and terrorist acts aimed against the civilian populations of both parties to the conflict and I believe we must appeal to the Palestinians not to respond with a murderous increase in terrorist acts and more bloodshed.
This assassination has already had very grave consequences, including the suspension of the Arab League Summit.
In this regard, I would like to express my agreement with the severe judgment of Shimon Peres in the Knesset when he said that this action would bring even more serious consequences.
There must therefore be an end to this policy of continuing to build the wall within the occupied territories, of ordering extra-judicial executions and, furthermore, there must be a withdrawal from Gaza, to which the current Israeli Government has clearly committed itself.
I would like to say on behalf of my group that the repeated violations of human rights, non-compliance with the latest United Nations resolutions on the part of the Israeli Government and, above all, Ariel Sharon’s insistence on renewing executions outside the framework of international law, will leave us with no other option than to reiterate the positions adopted by this House in its Resolution of 10 April 2002 and to call on the Commission and the Council to strictly apply the second article of our Association Agreement.
Secondly, I would call on the Presidency-in-Office of the Council to urge those Member States of the European Union which sit on the United Nations Security Council to immediately present a proposal to establish an international intervention force on the 1967 borders, with the mandate of protecting both sides.
I believe that the whole of this process must come within the framework of the proposals being made to resolve the problem of the Middle East.
It is clear that in order to resolve such a bitter and profound conflict, it is better to propose peace than to begin new wars and increase the cycle of violence, above all in a situation in which the stability of those regimes which could contribute to supporting a process of reform is being broken.
I will end, Mr President, by saying that the European Parliament has done its bit with the creation, at last, of the Athens Parliamentary Assembly, and we have a duty, not only political but also moral, to continue the European Union's efforts in line with the Barcelona process in order to overcome such a bitter and profound crisis which calls on us to show political, economic and moral responsibility. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Patten, the nightmare in the Middle East seems never to end.
In the last few days, we have been talking a lot about terrorism and, clearly, nothing would mean more in the fight against terrorism than peace in the Middle East.
Unfortunately, there is nothing to suggest that today’s leaders, whether in Israel or Palestine, have this will.
The Palestinian leadership must therefore show unprecedented strength and leadership in order to prevent a new spiral of violence.
The ELDR Group cannot be too emphatic in its condemnation of the suicide bombers.
I wish to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner Patten for their work to bring this about.
Peace in the Middle East and a peaceful Iraq in which I hope that the UN can be given a greater role would be very great progress and would have huge significance for the process of reform throughout the region.
If, in the way that has been sketched out in the proposal now adopted, we succeed in incorporating these countries into a close and extensive network of trade and cooperation, it would constitute huge progress for the EU.
I truly believe, and I am not just copying what others have said, that we must have the courage to admit that much of the responsibility for these unresolved conflicts lies with the international community and, most of all, with the military policy of President Bush and anyone who has stood up for that policy alongside President Bush.
The one who is rejecting negotiation, the one who really is following a different policy is Ariel Sharon.
There is no doubt that the Palestinian Authority bears responsibility for its own inability to stop terrorist acts, but I also think we should clearly assess to what extent Ariel Sharon’s policy has brought on the growth in terrorism.
It will probably help some accomplice or subservient regimes, but it will not contribute to the reconstruction of Arab countries that do in fact need to free themselves from oppressive regimes and really need democracy.
Sheikh Yassin’s assassination was not the first: there have been 250 extrajudicial executions, and the first victim was Tabet Tabet, an Al Fatah pacifist who was working with Peace Now.
There are various types of responsibility, and I think that, with this decision, Ariel Sharon did not just kill a leader, something that – for heaven’s sake – I as a woman regard as the utmost in evil, but his intention was in fact to transform a national conflict into a religious conflict.
Four days ago I was in the mountains of Kurdistan and saw demonstrations in Van for Sheikh Yassin.
Moreover, we are concerned here with trade policy pure and simple.
Europe, as such, cannot just be a mouthpiece for a message in terms of European funding for the Middle East area.
I believe that this can be done, and in this case I appeal to Commissioner Patten and the Irish Council Presidency to call for an end to the conflicts.
I believe that this could once again give politics a real voice and not just an issue on which to speculate in this Chamber.
For those who, like me, have experienced terrorism – a different type of terrorism, ‘red terrorism’ – and have seen a bomb in the house and a brother get out through a window, political words meant nothing at the time, in the eighties.
I believe that this can only be done if we, as Europe, are aware of this and at the very least now compile a list of terrorist associations to be assessed at an international level.
Now, Europe’s interest lies specifically in reuniting the region in order better to make a success of the forms of Mediterranean cooperation that will make the Mediterranean what it always was, that is to say the geopolitical centre of the world.
The European Council dedicated five paragraphs to condemning Israel for this, but I do not recall having read anything in the text about employing handicapped children for just a few euros to turn them into human bombs with 10&#160;kg of explosives.
Secondly, everyone in this Parliament condemns the illegal executions that Israel is carrying out.
Those who are normally always very vociferous about these things in this House should also be vociferous in addressing the Arab world about them.
Otherwise, we will never find a solution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the most detailed and in-depth analysis of the limits to the development of democracy in the Arab world and of its consequences on development in those societies came from the first report of the United Nations Development Programme that was drawn up in 2002.
The second report was published recently and goes into more depth as regards the lack of education and training, the severe limits in terms of cultural production, technology and research.
The strategy for the Greater Middle East, drawn up by the Bush administration, is based largely on these analyses, with a limitation that I would say is fatal: that of prescribing changes and reforms without establishing any relationship with the Arab and Islamic world.
There is the risk that this approach will fuel the notion that so-called Western civilisation thinks itself superior to all the religious and cultural traditions of the Arab world.
The second comment that I would like to make concerns relations between the Bush administration and the Sharon government.
Today is therefore not about challenging all this, but rather about establishing a relationship with the Bush administration, with the Arab League and in collaboration with the Palestinian Liberation Organisation (PLO), which makes Europe’s point of view heard as an alternative to the initiatives from the US Administration. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Europe is strongly committed to peace but is deeply frustrated by the latest terrorist attacks.
In order to ensure a future of peace in this area, however, greater responsibility is needed and all our efforts, our political authority and our financial and human resources must be used to ensure that we get back on the road to negotiations.
The Athens Forum was therefore an important step, but this is not about supporting one side or the other.
The route that we must take, even now that hopes for peace seem almost dead, remains that of working towards a clear objective: two states, one alongside the other, Israel and Palestine, that live in peace and security without discrimination and with respect for human rights.
It is high time the European Union supported them by clearly identifying Sharon as the main obstacle to peace; by specifically entering into official talks with those opposed to this policy of adopting the worst possible line, notably the pioneers of the Geneva Accord; by officially requesting the immediate deployment of an international force to protect the population of the Palestinian territories; and by suspending the agreement with Israel, as demanded by our Parliament two years ago.
In short, by matching words with action in the interests of respect for international law.
While the American president continues to encourage Sharon, welcoming him in a few days’ time, the Union can no longer hide behind words.
The proven lies concerning the reasons for armed intervention in Iraq and the new boost given to terrorism extending also into Europe drive us to take initiatives much bolder than those implied by what the Council and the Commission have told us today.
Both in Israel and among the Palestinians, there are forces pursuing mutual destruction.
This violence was continuously breeding more violence.
The EU could begin by suspending the trade agreements.
Clearly Israel is entitled to protect its citizens against terror attacks, but Sharon's persisting violations of human rights, including extrajudicial killings, are not protecting but endangering its citizens.
It is contrary to international law; it totally undermines the very concept of the rule of law, which is a key element in the fight against terrorism.
Israel could easily arrest suspected terrorists, instead of killing innocent passers-by, of whom many are women and children, using exactly the same despicable means as suicide bombers.
The Palestinian Authority cannot stop suicide bombings when Israel deliberately fuels everything that leads to them, thus sharing the responsibility for them.
In many cases, Israel has used extrajudicial killings against exactly those Palestinian leaders who have been strong advocates for peace and for stopping the suicide bombings.
Sharon's state terrorism is no substitute for political negotiations such as the Geneva Accord and the roadmap, which Israel is now abandoning. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Middle East is the spiritual home of the three great revealed religions of the world, but sadly also the inspiration for those misguided few who invoke Islam as a justification for terrorist killings, invoking in particular the bloodthirsty traditions of Salafism and Wahhabism.
Therefore stabilising this region in peace, democracy, good governance with the rule of law and respect for human rights is essential to the EU's interest, as well as the people there who have suffered under tyrannical governments for so long.
Lastly, I hope to see more dialogue between moderate Muslim leaders and the EU's political classes if we are to avoid the much feared clash of civilisations as a scenario. &#160;&#160; Mr President, referring to the Mediterranean and the Middle East, the Council has just indicated – and I quote – ‘the Union’s willingness to work with the United States for the purposes of cooperation in the region’.
The problem is that these assassinations take place, we all condemn them, but none of us act to put an end to them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have two points.
Now, the United States tells us that it has a plan for the Middle East.
How, though, can we talk in terms of plans when we know that Syria has a presence in Lebanon, when the occupation in Iraq is ongoing and when a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has still not been found?
These reforms are needed, but so is economic development.
Finally, and in conclusion, only by reducing the gap between the ruling classes and the people will these reforms be possible.
It is for this reason that we in Europe must support the forces of progress or internal forces for peace and strengthen dialogue in order to dispel fears, to finally put an end to this violence and to let our common values govern us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, anyone who fails to recognise that the State of Israel has the duty to protect its citizens against terror loses their credibility.
The biggest obstacle to peace in the Middle East is the Palestinians' unwillingness to recognise the State of Israel.
The State of Israel accounts for only 0.6% of Arab territory.
The Arab countries have never allowed their Palestinian brothers to lead a dignified existence.
The UN, too, kept the refugee status of the Palestinians artificially in place for 50 years.
On its own continent, Europe has placed democracy on a pedestal, but ignores democracy in Israel, in a region which consists of nothing but dictatorships – enlightened or not, as the case may be. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the assassination of the Hamas chief had one effect, which was that the Arab League summit, which was to have taken place yesterday and today, was cancelled.
That is a tragedy because the summit was to have considered a number of proposals for reform in the Arab region.
He also spoke about the evolution of democracy and civil society in these lands.
As some of you may know, I have spent some time in the last few months, as rapporteur on the democracy initiative, going to the conference in Sana'a, Yemen, to Cairo, Alexandria, Damascus, to the Arab Parliamentary Union conference and to Athens last week with you, Mr President.
But in this arc of instability on our rim, while the EU is spending EUR 700 million plus in MEDA funds, only EUR 7 million of that is being spent on democracy.
I would echo the appeal by a group of Palestinian academics not to commit any new suicide attacks.
Prime Minister Sharon violates human rights, ignores UN resolutions by building a wall in the Occupied Territories, by building new settlements and by the extrajudicial executions of Palestinians.
I would therefore call for a suspension of the EU's association agreement with Israel in accordance with Article 2, the human rights clause, until such time as the Israeli Government has withdrawn its call for attacks, which are in contravention of international law, and mean that the Sharon Government constitutes a threat to safety and to the constitutional state of Israel.
The Israeli-Palestinian situation is a seriously disturbing factor in the entire region.
What the Middle East needs is a broad democratic initiative for dialogue and cooperation between all countries in it, and Europe possesses the appropriate instruments to bring one about.
We must organise the partnerships between the EU and the Mediterranean countries in the framework of the Barcelona process, in which we strategically promote political and economic, but also social, reforms, in order to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Sadly, recent events have made a further radicalisation between Israel and the Palestinians more than likely.
The status of the United States as a good international negotiator has been dealt a few serious blows after Afghanistan and Iraq.
The women were from 22 different Arab countries.
Clearly, this issue is a hugely unifying factor throughout all the Arab countries.
Commissioner Patten clearly had a part in that as well.
There is also another generation of children on the other side of the border who are too terrified to go to school in case the bus they are riding in is blown up.
These are the children who 20 years from now will be the leaders, or perhaps the victims, or the suicide bombers.
We all condemn unreservedly the dreadful events in both Palestine and Israel.
But there has to be that leap of faith, that moment in which, as a friend of mine said, we have to smile weakly and have a strong stomach and forget about the awful things we have done to each other and start to try and address the dreadful issues in the Middle East which are central to practically every single major political issue in the world today. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, there is talk these days of a new Middle East policy, of a greater Middle East.
I would also like Europe to expend as much energy solving the Middle East problem as some European Union Member States are doing in the case of Iraq, because there would then be fewer terrorist attacks and there would be fewer illegal killings like that of Sheikh Yassin.
Unlike many of my fellow Members here, however, I have not seen much evidence of the Americans supporting the reform movements in Jordan, Egypt or Saudi Arabia in recent years.
I have not noticed them supporting democracy and human rights in those countries very much.
If the United States of America is now taking up that cause, I am very much in favour of joining them in supporting the reform efforts inside the Arab countries.
There are enough people in the Arab countries who are dissatisfied with discrimination and disregard for human rights and the rights of minorities.
Not long ago, we welcomed to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy people who had recently written a report showing where the obstacles lie, obstacles to modernisation and democratisation recognised by the Arab countries themselves.
I believe the only practical way forward for a new Middle East policy is not to threaten outside military intervention but for Europe, in particular, to support the reform forces in the Arab countries.
The balance is quite clearly worse today than it was ten years ago when there were events and political choices.
In a few days, as is our custom, the presiding country will meet the president of the United States of America in order to raise the imperative question of the joint approach to this issue.
Politics are not neutral.
If the European Union wants to demonstrate its ability, including for its own interests, it is an area which has matured to the point at which it will have the general acceptance of mankind if it makes a positive contribution to resolving the Palestinian problem, which is the tip of a broader problem, but if the tip is solved, it will also be resolved at the base. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, a sustainable peace in the Middle East can only be achieved through serious negotiations and by complying with international law.
Peace is never achieved through terrorist acts, on the part either of Israel or of the Palestinians.
The murder of Sheik Yassin, ordered by Israel, is an act of terrorism and a crime under international law.
Further indulgence of Israel and the Israeli Government does not help Israel. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the assassination of Hamas leader Sheikh Ahmed Yassin and the seven other Palestinians was a clear breach of international law.
The government of Ariel Sharon has once again adopted bully-boy tactics which can only block the peace process and obstruct any chance for constructive negotiations.
The continuing occupation of Palestinian territory and the construction of the so-called security wall, mostly on Palestinian territory, is ghettoising Palestinians, destroying their livelihoods, imprisoning and impoverishing them and driving them to despair.
It is not doing so and unless we take action to insist that they do, we will reap a terrible harvest in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, peace in the Middle East hinges on a solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and on the entire European policy concerning strategic partnership.
We all agree that the European Union needs to raise the level of its engagement within the region.
The drive and the initiative to address these challenges and to implement the necessary reforms must come from the region itself.
However, the reality is that the Union must be involved in pushing forward where it can to try and create at least a space in which peace can be created.
The Union must work in partnership with the region to this end, to help to meet all of these challenges.
In the interim report on the strategic partnership endorsed by the Council last week, the European Union has established a set of guiding principles for its engagement in the region.
The presidency is committed to developing the strategic partnership on the basis of partnership and dialogue with all the countries in the region.
The Sharon government would not dare to commit crimes if it did not have direct support and encouragement from the USA.
The summit in Brussels confined itself to expressing its opposition to ‘extra-judicial killings’ (as it calls the murders), but recognised ‘Israel’s right to protect its citizens against terrorist attacks’.
We have shown solidarity, in various ways, with the Palestinian people, and with those individuals and groups in Israel who are fighting for peace in the region.
A joint initiative for peace, stability and democracy throughout the Middle East, in the words of the title of this Council and Commission declaration, would be worthy of our support if it were indeed a joint initiative for peace.
The assassination of the Hamas leader, irrespective of what we think of that organisation, has contributed nothing towards peace in the Middle East; quite the opposite, in fact.
Similarly, the fact that Ariel Sharon’s fascistic government is not being held to account for the escalation of violence and terror contributes nothing towards peace in the Middle East.
While the situation in Kosovo has stabilised since 18&#160;March, it remains very tense.
I pay tribute to the efforts of all who worked hard to stabilise the situation and to restore calm in Kosovo.
The General Affairs and External Relations Council, on 22 March, and the European Council, on 26 March, condemned the violence, loss of life, the damage to property and the destruction of religious and cultural heritage in Kosovo.
The full commitment of the European Union to the development of a secure, democratic and multi-ethnic Kosovo, in line with UN Security Council Resolution&#160;1244 has been reaffirmed once again.
The European Union strongly supports the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General in Kosovo, Harri Holkeri, the United Nations mission in Kosovo and KFOR in their determined efforts to stabilise the situation and to ensure the full implementation of Security Council resolution&#160;1244.
That policy, together with Security Council resolution&#160;1244, remains the foundation of the international community’s commitment to Kosovo.
The European Union is considering how it can strengthen its role in support of the UN Standards before Status policy.
The recent violent events have risked undermining the painstakingly achieved progress that has been made to date.
The explosion of sectarianism would be to the detriment of all in Kosovo.
It is clear that the future of the people of that country lies in the eventual integration of the countries of the Western Balkans into the European Union structures, as agreed at the EU-Western Balkans summit in June 2003.
The implementation of the UN Standards before Status policy is the key to achieving that goal.
Despite the recent violence and the continuing tensions, this will have to include the resumption of the process of dialogue on practical matters between Belgrade and Pristina.
Commissioner Patten accompanied him on the visit.
Political leaders in Kosovo, especially the Kosovo Albanian leadership, need to take responsibility for the situation and ensure that there is no repeat of ethnically motivated violence, or of threats of such violence.
Those responsible for the violence must be brought to justice.
What has happened in Kosovo over the past few weeks is a reminder to us all of the importance of the role that the European Union plays, not just in Kosovo, but in the wider region.
The European Union has taken the lead role in working with the countries of the Western Balkans to consolidate peace and stability in the region, and to promote economic development and the respect for human rights and the rule of law.
European Union assistance in the region in support of those objectives will amount to EUR 4.65 billion over the period 2000-2006.
The Union, including its Member States, continues to be the most important source of funding for the international efforts in Kosovo.
Moreover, European Union Member States make the largest troop contributions to KFOR.
In the case of Kosovo, the Stabilisation and Association Process tracking mechanism initiated by the European Commission in the spring of 2003 is designed to facilitate Kosovo’s progress within the Stabilisation and Association Process, bringing Kosovo within the embrace of the European family.
Our efforts to promote the European perspective of Kosovo and the United Nations policy of implementing standards are mutually reinforcing policies.
The rate of progress of the countries of the region towards European integration is to a great extent in their own hands, although the European Union will support them fully in this endeavour.
The path to take has been mapped out by the United Nations, in its Standards before Status policy.
I would like to repeat the Council’s support for Special Representative Holkeri, for his United Nations colleagues, and for KFOR, in their determination to stabilise the situation and to ensure the implementation of Security Council resolution&#160;1244 in full.
It is the responsibility of all, but particularly of Kosovo’s leaders, to support the work already in train to ensure a stable future for a secure, democratic, prosperous and multi-ethnic Kosovo, with its place in Europe.
The latest reports suggest that 22 people were killed and more than 850 injured, including police and KFOR members.
We did not do that in order to see Kosovar Serbs being ethnically cleansed in their turn.
Let me share with the House my reflections on my visit to Kosovo.
We saw at first hand the anger and upset of Serbs in a suburb of Pristina called Kosovo Polje.
He understood that it was the duty of his government to put things right, not the responsibility of the international community.
That would be completely unacceptable.
The European Union strongly supports the UN as an institution.
We cannot tolerate attacks on the UN, whether in Kosovo or anywhere else.
Finally, it is absolutely essential that the political leaderships in Belgrade and Pristina refrain from provocative statements which can only serve to exacerbate tensions.
It is always tempting after horrible events like these to conclude that we should rip up our strategy and come up with a new plan.
Whatever Kosovo’s final status, its future lies in Europe.
We have to make it absolutely clear that violence is not a shortcut to anything, and that if people follow leaders who espouse violence they are following those leaders into a future of poverty and criminality – not a future with the rest of Europe.
I hope that point will be understood and that the community will turn its back on violence and move towards stability, prosperity, multi-ethnicity, pluralism and democracy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, if I am honest, the situation in Kosovo makes me feel both sad and helpless.
I was in favour of that; after all, I had visited the country and its people since 1990 and had experienced terrible things, including torture, experienced the apartheid regime for myself.
The government in Belgrade has deliberately prevented the local Serbs from being actively involved in shaping Kosovo.
Otherwise, any aid from us will really be pointless. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, three things struck me after our last visit to Pristina.
Hardly anything has changed, however, in the heads of the political representatives of the various ethnic groups in Kosovo.
That is true of the Serbs, as becomes clear when you look at how little real cooperation there is between the ministers in the Rexhepi government and when you consider that there is still a parallel structure for the Serbs.
Why should I have to persuade a European taxpayer to continue providing money for a state whose only aim, or whose political leadership’s only aim is to create an ethnically pure state in Europe?
I have always advocated moving towards independence for Kosovo, but is the Albanian leadership in Kosovo doing its part for that independence, namely creating the conditions for it?
That is why, however much I agree with what you said, Commissioner, and you were perfectly right, I believe we must now look to the Council and the Commission – but in the end chiefly to the Council – not simply for words, but for action if the Albanian leadership in Kosovo and also the Serbs are not prepared to work on a joint project for Kosovo.
Almost exactly five years ago, NATO began bombing Yugoslavia without declaring war.
Although all the parties to the Helsinki Final Act had committed themselves to recognising the territorial status quo in Europe, the country was systematically dismembered by internal and external forces along ethnic lines; the Federal Republic of Germany led the way with its early recognition of Slovenia and Croatia.
The rapid disintegration of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia did not bring an end to the conflicts, but gave rise to new tensions, which are now again exploding in bloody clashes in Kosovo.
That is why I would like to repeat here the appeal Parliament made in its last report on this region, and addressed to the Commission and Council: give an outline of what the options for the future are and make it clear what, according to the European Union, the different scenarios are, but do not take too long about it.
However, the message of this Parliament to the Kosovars and the Kosovan authorities should also be clear: let your people not be taken hostage by a few criminal troublemakers.
Be brave in your rejection; say much more clearly than you have done to date that this is unacceptable, but also take this one brave message to your people: Kosovo must be tolerant, or else Kosovo will cease to be. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, as we have maintained and pointed out to this Parliament and the Council on many occasions, the latest tragedies that have taken place in Kosovo show that peace and democracy are not things that are obtained for ever, not even in Europe, but objectives that must be reconfirmed every day.
Not only peace and democracy are being challenged but also the dignity of the person and respect for a common cultural heritage.
The destruction of monasteries in Kosovo, carried out with the sole aim of destroying the symbols of a culture that has the same roots as the European Union, shows how there is a set political agenda at the basis of international terrorism and the resulting guerrilla warfare in some countries, against which our inertia is not just a sign of dangerous weakness but also a harbinger of further tragedies.
The Union must step up its presence in Kosovo and call on the Albanian, Serbian and Montenegrin authorities to defend the rights of the minorities and protect Serbian Orthodox cultural sites.
The valuable frescoes that have for centuries adorned the Orthodox temples and monasteries in the Balkan region are the heritage of humankind as a whole and must be safeguarded and protected from any risk of destructive folly, as we have stressed in our resolution.
What we also want, however, is a stronger presence for Europe, and this is why we would point out that a European army, as called for by the Convention, is an objective that cannot be put off any longer. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in 1999, Serbia, crushed by NATO bombing, had to give up exercising sovereignty over part of its territory, Kosovo.
Many regions in our countries are undergoing the start of this process.
What was actually positive was the speed of the response from the international community, and the European Union in particular, but also from various EU Member States who quickly reinforced the military forces on the ground there and managed to stop the violence from escalating any further.
Many people here have already said that we must continue to encourage those responsible in Kosovo itself, but also the people in Serbia and possibly in Albania as well, to participate in finding an achievable solution.
The high levels of unemployment in the country are severely hampering the chance of finding a solution to the problems.
I remain, however, convinced that we must continue to work towards a society in which the two ethnic groups can cooperate and live together, and I am also of the opinion that the ethnic groups can be called to account about their responsibilities.
An answer to the question as to what the definitive status of Kosovo should be, can, however, only be given once we have achieved a kind of internal stability that engenders trust and once there is a conviction that the two ethnic groups can live together peacefully.
We cannot allow a black hole to develop in that part of Europe, and that is why it is also so important for us to have responded the way we did.
We should also, however, think about what might have to be a harder line in the future in order to ensure that we achieve a breakthrough in the stalemate I was talking about earlier. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, may I first state clearly that I condemn all forms of violence.
I would prefer to call it Kosova, which is the Albanian term for Kosovo.
Unemployment in the Albanian part is two-and-a-half times higher than in the Serbian part.
The Albanian Kosovars in Mitrovica in the southern part earn two-and-a-half times less than the Serbs in the northern part.
The vote will take place on Thursday. &#160;&#160; . – Recent events in Kosovo have completed the ethnic cleansing, with the expulsion of the remaining Serbs and gypsies and the seizure of their property.
The international NATO force set up in Kosovo in order to apply Security Council Resolution 1441, instead of disarming the criminal gangs of the KLA, as it should have done, proclaimed them the Kosovo Protection Corps.
The current situation in Kosovo and the tragedy of Yugoslavia in general highlight the extent of the crime committed during the 1990s against the Yugoslavian people and the hypocrisy of the proclamations about protecting human rights from the elected government of President Milosevic made by the invaders when they intervened, preventing it from maintaining order and protecting the inhabitants of Kosovo (of all nationalities) against the action of the KLA.
The proposal also envisaged that feed business operators would provide financial guarantees to cover business-related risks such as the costs arising from withdrawing products from the market.
From farm to table, the criteria for the production of our food should be very clearly defined.
Quite apart from the harm to food, the food scandals over recent years – BSE, dioxin or nitrophene, for example – cost the European taxpayer a very great deal of money in terms of products recalled.
Insurance companies have made it clear to a hearing with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development that, in the absence of any clear definition of what is meant by ‘risk’, the costs involved in financial guarantees would become quite incalculable, and they would find it very difficult to estimate them.
This feasibility study should not only examine the national regulations currently in force, and the systems and practices relating to liability in the feed sector and similar areas at the national level, but should also set out recommendations for such a feasible and practicable guarantee system at EU level.
However, national regulation systems which are already in place and functioning for other purposes should be utilised wherever possible to avoid unnecessary duplication and regulation.
Currently, the majority of farms can be identified through their participation in these schemes.
Having consulted with the farming industry, feed manufacturers and the insurance sector, we find that the consequences of introducing financial guarantees have not been sufficiently analysed.
I hope the rapporteur will see that after a proper study and a reasonable length of time – and to me that means 12 months – we will arrive at that position.
Based on the excellent work done and the informal trialogue between Parliament, Council and Commission, there is, I hope, sufficient agreement between the three institutions to reach resolution in first reading.
It is clear to me that if first reading agreement is to be reached, this House will need to support the amendment to delete the guarantees in line with the compromise proposed.
The Commission could then come forward with a report on all aspects of the situation.
I have to say that a very persuasive factor is the fact that the insurance industry across the Community, including the enlarged Community, is not ready for mandatory financial guarantees across the board.
Based on the compromise reached, I understand that the rapporteur has tabled amendments which the Commission can accept and thereby facilitate closure in first reading.
I trust that this will be included in the verbatim report of proceedings of this part-session(1). &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Third, it increases transparency and legal certainty for operators, by describing the procedure for the authorisation of substances used for food contact materials.
The proposal is in the interests of both consumers and industry.
It would enhance harmonisation of different sectors of materials in contact with food, including recycled materials and active and intelligent packaging.
The Commission supports these efforts.
We can therefore accept all amendments that are part of the compromise package that is the result of close contact between the three institutions. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, we are about to see the approval of a framework for our food packaging.
After everything else we have successfully resolved, we are now to create an overall framework.
As the Commissioner said, there are three principal new developments: the new administration, and thus transparency, resulting from the setting up of a European Food Safety Agency; the new principles incorporated into food legislation; and, finally, the opportunity to approve active, intelligent packaging.
That would be an advantage, because we are concerned about a possible link between additives and the increasing number of allergies.
I personally prefer active packaging around my bread.
As we said, active intelligent packaging should entail advantages for both consumers and manufacturers.
The substances that have been allowed into food must be approved, and active packaging must not be misleading to consumers.
Intelligent packaging can provide us with information about the way in which food has been stored and thus show whether it has been stored suitably.
We know, for example, that certain smoked food can be difficult to store in the right way.
I hope that we can adopt this report at a single reading.
That would be in keeping with the position at which we had arrived in our negotiations with the Council and with what COREPER approved last week.
I think it would be a very good idea to round this off in a first-reading agreement.
New developments require new standards.
Active and intelligent materials and objects are just such new developments.
Active materials interact with food in order to maintain or improve the condition of the food during its storage and to extend its shelf life.
Food safety is of course the yardstick in this area.
Finally, I wish to emphasise that, in our opinion, traceability is very important. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Commission's proposal emphasises the introduction of two new types of packaging in contact with food: what is known as 'active' packaging, which releases preservatives into the food, and what is known as 'intelligent' packaging, which warns consumers when the food has gone off or has some undesirable characteristic.
Whereas Community legislation on food additives is regulated in great detail, the Commission's proposal simply introduces a general procedural framework, putting great emphasis on comitology.
We have been fighting for a very long time against the ever-increasing exposure of consumers to a whole host of additives and we refuse to let these become more widespread, which would be damaging to health.
Perhaps we can reflect and congratulate ourselves on our hard work over the last four and a half years when we have worked well together to achieve these results.
I also appreciate the clarifications provided on certain aspects, notably on traceability, the authorisation procedure and the provisions on active and intelligent packaging.
The Group of the European People’s Party has called for a number of crucial amendments in order to make packaging, and thus also food, safer in future.
They know that this proposal can help the European Union to meet its Kyoto commitments.
Fluorinated gases, as defined in the Kyoto Protocol, accounted for 65 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, that is, 2% of the total EU greenhouse gas emissions in 1995, but are forecast to increase to 98&#160;million tonnes of CO2 equivalent – from 2% to 4% – in 2010 under business as usual.
For example, in the refrigeration and air conditioning sectors there is a strong upward trend in the use of fluorinated gases due to the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances.
HFCs are a drop in the ocean in relation to CO2.
If we were to use Article 175 it would make marketing of products containing these gases almost impossible across the whole of the European Union.
Whilst I understand the situation, for example, in Austria, where they have gone further, in the interests of the single market we should maintain the legal base.
In practice, however, as 20% of the vehicle fleets of most manufacturers are not fitted with air conditioning, these manufacturers would have met the first step of the quota system without doing anything.
The quota system is complex and would only have worked very well with a company that had a range of products which fitted conveniently into these 20% steps.
And of course there was a massive loophole in the whole system, a loophole big enough to drive a Rolls Royce through, in that manufacturers could as an alternative pay a 200 euro fine for not complying with the directive.
That is why I am very pleased that the PSE Group has prevailed on me and made me see sense and that we have Compromise Amendment No 112, which says that, based on type-approval, we should phase out the use of HFCs and substitute with CO2 from 2012, with a two-year exemption, or two-year delay at least, for some of the smaller manufacturers – what we call the Porsche exemption –, moving towards CO2, which is a much better goal, not only environmentally, but politically too.
Not all air conditioning systems are mobile: some of them are in stationary applications such as buildings like this one.
In the case of buildings, it is important that we control leakage, and inspection and control of leakages are included in the Commission's proposal, which we support.
Nevertheless, perhaps we can finish before the dinner break.
That being said, there are still a number of issues that need to be resolved.
Useful though they have been to replace CFCs, HFCs themselves present problems, particularly with their global warming potential, and we have a responsibility to gradually reduce their use, but in a way that is logical, not too expensive, and where there are proven and viable alternatives.
Our biggest step forward and our biggest technological push is unquestionably the replacement of HFCs in car air conditioning systems.
These systems are produced in their millions, their leakability is notorious – I know of colleagues at home who have had to have their air conditioning systems refilled two, three or four times.
I do not accept that the solution is simply to reduce the number of leaks.
The Montreal Protocol was an attempt to eliminate CFCs, as these gases are harmful to stratoshperic ozone.
I myself was active and put forward the amendments on air conditioning systems in vehicles in particular.
According to a recent news item, a certain Japanese car manufacturer has already switched over to the use of this technology on the production line, and European manufacturers ought to follow suit.
The compromises proposed by our rapporteur and agreed by the committee are not entirely in harmony with my own amendments, but I can accept them as an improvement on the original proposals.
I think the timetable that will now be adopted is too slow from the point of view of climate change, especially as there has been a dramatic increase in the use of air conditioning in vehicles in recent years.
In the battle against climate change, emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases must be reduced as much as possible.
We therefore wholeheartedly support the committee in its attempts to tackle the biggest sources of emissions.
These are refrigeration and air-conditioning installations, mobile air-conditioning installations and foam products.
After much discussion, my group would like to be a little more flexible with regard to the gases in fire protection systems.
The emissions from these are extremely low and are only released in the event of a fire.
We would like to ban fluorinated greenhouse gases, but only in cases where this is actually possible and where there are alternatives.
Many people are not aware of the negative impact air-conditioning can have on the environment and our climate.
What is certainly important is that we choose Article 175 as the legal basis.
Member States must have the opportunity to take further-reaching measures, particularly in view of the geographical differences and the fact that air-conditioning is superfluous in northern countries.
Member States must therefore have the opportunity to discourage air-conditioning in cars.
Perhaps we should go even further in order to limit the installation of air-conditioning in cars.
In short, we would like the result achieved by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy to be accepted by the plenary session, with some amendments. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is a good practical proposal from the Commission for doing something about global warming and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, because, although the total quantity of greenhouse gases being produced from air conditioning and refrigeration equipment is not vast, the amount is growing very substantially year by year – it is expected to increase 15 times between 1995 and 2010.
The committee has rejected some of the key proposals from the Commission on mobile air conditioning.
Most of all, I regret that the Socialist Group and the European People's Party have done this deal on pushing the date for the introduction of vehicles using carbon dioxide back to 2011 from the original proposal of the committee for 2009.
As far as mobile air conditioning is concerned, it is disappointing that the committee has failed to take note of those parts of European industry that are already committed to delivering CO2 mobile air conditioning as soon as possible.
Whilst the proposed phase-out for mobile air conditioning is at present unacceptable, there is no phase-out provided for at all for the use of F-gases in many other applications where alternatives are available.
So let us have a debate based on the facts, not on the myths. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for his good cooperation, as well, of course, as the other Members of this House who are present here today.
I think we have ended up looking in the right direction, especially as regards the issue of air-conditioning in cars, about which something has to be done, and, for the benefit of, among others, our visitors, let me say that what was agreed in Kyoto is binding in law within the European Union.
What the decisions of 2002 and of 10 March this year mean is that this is binding in the European Union whether Russia ratifies or not, so we too have to do something about this.
The first fact is that more and more cars have air-conditioning; it is fitted in 80% of all new vehicles, and every year these units discharge between about 8% and 10% of the gases that damage the climate.
I think it is perfectly clear that we have to go down the road of seeking out the safest alternatives possible with the absolute minimum of global warming potential.
The Commission also welcomes a number of amendments that strengthen the provisions on containment and inspections and the training and certification of personnel involved in containment.
Neither can the Commission accept amendments that would either weaken the proposed inspection system of air conditioning and stationary refrigeration or put in place additional requirements as regards training and certification of personnel, both for the Commission and the Member States that have not been evaluated.
The Commission proposal tries to ensure that the necessary information can be collected without imposing too onerous a reporting system on industry, especially SMEs.
In this context, the Commission cannot accept a number of amendments.
The Commission believes that its proposal on use bans and the phase-out of some products and equipment containing fluorinated gases is based on a careful evaluation of all sectors and is balanced and cost-effective.
The cost for this limited number of small and medium-sized enterprises to convert to an alternative would be high, hence the exemption.
On the sensitive issue of the phase-out of the fluorinated gases in mobile air conditioning in vehicles, the Commission notes with interest the amendments to ban fluorinated gases, essentially HFC134a in mobile air conditioning in new vehicle models from 1 January 2009, and that a ban should apply to all new vehicles from 1 January 2014.
The Commission prefers to remain with its overall position on mobile air conditioning, given other amendments that reject the quota system and ban all fluorinated gases used in mobile air conditioning with a global warming potential over 50, rather than 150, as proposed by the Commission.
The latter would effectively exclude the use of fluorinated gas mixtures or HFC152a and favour CO2 mobile air conditioning systems.
Finally, as regards the legal basis, the Commission is proposing that the regulation be based on Article 95 – the internal market – and cannot support amendments that propose that the regulation be based on a dual legal basis.
The debate is closed.
Parliament, the Commission and the Council have in actual fact tackled the issue as a whole, and we are now perhaps putting the last pieces of the puzzle in place when it comes to thinking about food safety.
Air pollution and climate change have also been addressed.
The health problems are now such that it is not only political decisions that apply.
Environment and health is an issue that affects us all.
According to the latest Eurobarometer surveys, 89% of European citizens are concerned about the impact of the environment on their health.
Our knowledge of which environmental factors actually give rise to certain effects on health is still fairly limited.
Diseases are caused by many different factors, often in combination.
The basic idea is to bring environment, health and research together in order to improve our understanding of, and thus tackle more effectively, the complicated link between environment and disease.
Experts and interest groups from throughout the enlarged EU have participated in the preparations for this action plan.
It is important to bear in mind that this is a long-term strategy.
Completing our knowledge of the part the environment plays in various health problems will take time.
This is true in a sense, but we need this data in order to determine how best to direct our efforts.
There are certain areas where we cannot risk waiting until our knowledge is complete, but need to act according to the precautionary principle, and we shall do so.
For the first cycle, in the period 2004 to 2010, we have selected a number of diseases and priority substances for particular consideration: childhood respiratory diseases, asthma and allergies, neurodevelopment disorders, childhood cancer, and endocrine disrupting effects.
Taking these diseases and substances as our starting point, we hope to develop a programme capable of providing us with the information we need on how the environment affects our health.
In the report, Parliament points out the risk of duplication of work, of our failing to take account of existing research results or work done by the World Health Organisation, for example.
By way of conclusion, I wish to thank Parliament once more for its support on this very important issue which, I assume, is close to all our hearts.
Thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; Mr President, coupling the environment with health was demanded by Parliament on the basis of the orders set out in Articles 152 and 174 of the Treaty.
Thus, for the first time, the European Union attempted to collect and disseminate widely information and knowledge on the repercussions of the state of the environment on human health.
Today, the sixth environmental action programme includes this specific aspect, in other words environment, health and quality of life, while the first Community action programme in the public health sector, which we adopted in 2002 and for which I had the honour of acting as rapporteur, includes promoting the recording, analysis and evaluation of the determining factors of health which are linked to the environment.
This knowledge will obviously result in the adoption and promotion of suitable strategies and measures to protect human health from the adverse effects of a deteriorating and dangerous environment.
However, we must note that the penetration of the environmental aspect into health has been hesitant so far on the part of the Union and, consequently, the current proposal for an environment and health strategy cannot but be welcomed as a positive step, which expresses the will of the European Union to develop action in this sector, because the environmental dangers to health today are immense and require a modern, integrated approach.
Emphasis must be placed on reducing the environmental dangers which have repercussions on human health or cause diseases, at huge economic and social cost.
It is certain that, together with diet, the environment is a significant, determining health factor and, consequently, the Union strategy in this sector must include the constant collection and systematic monitoring of data which link environmental parameters with various diseases.
Only by constantly developing scientific knowledge and research into the aspects of certain diseases with environmental parameters shall we be able to develop efficiently the Union strategy and action to protect human health.
This strategy will allow the life expectancy of European citizens to be prolonged further. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission communication on the European Environment and Health Strategy is an ambitious step which aims to improve the quality of life of European citizens.
The relevant Communication action plans so far have concentrated on specific environmental factors which are harmful to health without, however, ever having evaluated the risks from the links and interactions between the various pollutants to the human body overall.
I believe that the proposed strategy helps to achieve an overall understanding of the threats, of how they affect human health and of what action is required.
On behalf of my group, I should like to say that we support the Commission communication, as it is presented, but we shall not support those amendments which depart from the overall spirit and focus on individual sectors, thereby precluding other, equally important sectors. &#160;&#160; Mr President, doctors since the time of Hippocrates have known that our health is dependent on our environment.
These diseases have many causes, which are often complex and interact with one another.
Our physical environment is thus one of the major risk factors for the health of our citizens.
Chemicals, electromagnetic waves or urban and atmospheric traffic pollution: these are the major challenges for public health in Europe.
For example, we must take a strong stand against smoking, in particular passive smoking and smoking around children.
We must now put in place strong regulations allowing smoking to be banned in the workplace and in public places.
The Greens ask for these various major lines of thinking and action to be taken into account, so that the European Union is able to deal with the fears and expectations of our fellow citizens and, above all, with the revolution in public health that we must carry out. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the European Environment and Health Strategy will have an important role to play when the EU’s Sixth Environmental Action Programme is implemented in practice.
The prevention of disease and the general assurance of good health everywhere must play a key role when the strategy starts to be implemented in practice.
For some reason this principle was not given due consideration by the committee when the matter was being discussed, but I hope that this issue of prevention will be given top priority in future debates.
The first phase of the strategy will focus on factors that aim to have a beneficial effect on childhood diseases.
This is a good basis and starting point for the aim of offering our citizens an environment in which levels of pollution are not enough to produce harmful effects on people’s health and the environment.
To achieve this we naturally need investment in research, but also in training and education, and tangible levels of investment to ensure a better environment in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur.
I welcome this proposed strategy looking at the connection and links between environment and health and I welcome the Commission's proposal.
The Irish Government should be congratulated on its initiative to protect the health of all its citizens, including those who work in smoky pubs, clubs or restaurants.
Passive smoking is a risk factor in childbirth and infancy, connected to low birth weight and cot death; in children it is a risk factor in asthma, bronchitis and pneumonia; in adults it is a risk factor in heart disease, stroke, lung cancer and nasal cancer.
I thank the rapporteur and the Commissioner for their hard work. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
We already have in place legislation concerning the Århus Convention’s first and second pillars – access to environmental information and public participation in environmental decision-making.
The proposal for a directive on access to justice in environmental matters and for a regulation to apply the Århus Convention to the Community institutions and bodies will allow the Community to complete the package of legislative instruments aimed at effective implementation of the Århus Convention.
In addition, the Commission’s proposal for a decision on the conclusion of the Århus Convention by the European Community provides the means to live up to our political commitment by becoming a party to the Convention, further to its signature in 1998.
The proposal for a directive on access to justice aims to implement the third pillar of the Århus Convention by establishing minimum requirements for access to administrative or judicial proceedings in environmental matters.
This can only be guaranteed by means of an EU-wide instrument with respect to access to justice in environmental matters setting the minimum conditions all Member States have to comply with.
I particularly refer to Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents, and to the Commission’s communication of December 2002 establishing general principles and minimum standards for consultation of interested parties by the Commission.
I commend the proposals to the House and look forward to hearing your comments. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, the package of three acts now before us forms part of the package of measures for acquiring practical rules with regard to the principles agreed by the United Nations in Rio de Janeiro in 1992.
I myself was Parliament’s rapporteur for the first two pillars of the Århus Convention, and am now the rapporteur with regard to the regulation on the application of all three pillars to Community institutions and bodies.
The European Parliament played a very active role in the first two implementing directives on the Århus Convention.
The former three have already adopted a general rule for not making charges, and that must obviously not be altered where it concerns environmental information.
Furthermore, the amendments that have now been tabled are aimed at ensuring that there is adequate harmonisation between the regulation and the proposed Directive on access to justice.
The second problem is that this directive, which specifically relates to access to justice and the legal system, restricts the powers of the Union to a greater degree than the two earlier Århus directives.
All this Parliament must take into consideration when taking its decision on the directive.
The general criteria agreed by the committee are too narrow in the view of many environmental organisations.
What is required at the end of the day is simply normal procedures that accord with good practice on the part of organisations and recommending legal procedures that are in accordance with good practice, which is probably only reasonable considering the special role these organisations will now have in monitoring society’s conformity with the law.
If on the other hand some organisations are too small on their own to meet even these simple criteria, that may in itself even justify, in terms of the objective, which is the protection of the environment, combining skills and resources and not working as needlessly scattered units, at least as far as using the opportunity of access to justice is concerned.
We should also bear in mind the nature of the minimum directive: Member States may if they so wish exclude some of the proposed criteria, but may not add to them.
The Commission proposal was not absolutely clear on this point.
The two Århus directives already adopted represent Parliament’s position very clearly.
The final sections of the Århus package under discussion seem to be going in the right direction and showing a sense of balance.
As a result, ratification of the entire Århus Convention may finally start in the Community with no needless delay, provided the necessary Community legislation is adopted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have here this evening a joint debate on all three pillars of the Århus Convention.
In signing the Århus Convention, theCommunity demonstrated its will to improve environmental law and also involve the public in environmental decisions in an entirely different way.
The forthcoming ratification means that theCommunity is actually duty bound to ensure that citizens and NGOs are able to enjoy this right in accordance with Community law, which is a very good thing.
Although theCommunity and the Member States signed the Convention back in&#160;1998 and it entered into force in 2001, it has only been ratified by a few of the EU Member States.
Indeed, there are actually studies showing that, in countries offering the opportunity of bringing environmental proceedings and reviewing the application of environmental law, environmental law has become much stricter: there is a direct link.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has voted in favour of the Directive constituting a minimum framework and Member States being free to go further and provide broader access to justice.
Environmental proceedings must apply to both public authority handling and the criminal dimension, since the Århus Convention does not make a distinction between civil and criminal proceedings, and I do not really understand why the Commission wishes to make this distinction here.
In my opinion, this would create new obstacles, and I do not understand the need for this.
It is also very important that the definition of ‘environmental law’ apply to all policy areas and not just Article&#160;175, to which this proposal refers.
When legal proceedings are brought for reasons of public interest, the cost must not constitute an obstacle.
Mr&#160;Cashman welcomed, in his opinion, the proposal for a regulation on the application of the Århus&#160;Convention to EC bodies and institutions as a concrete step to align the EC legislation with the requirements of the Convention.
The opinion suggests that the operative text of the Commission proposal should clarify that all exceptions under Regulation (EC) No&#160;1049/2001 shall apply to requests for information.
As the Community signed this text in 1998, it is now our responsibility to act so that each of our governments can implement this agreement.
By signing the Århus Convention, the Community has committed itself to adopting legally binding instruments, namely a directive and a regulation, in order to bring Community legislation in line with the provisions of the Århus Convention.
Our work initially consisted in uniting the various concepts taken up in the texts and in adapting them to the definitions in the Convention.
Furthermore, only the provisions contained in the Århus Convention and in the directive granted access to justice to members of the public who bring to light an infringement of a right or who have an interest in acting.
As we were anxious that the Community institutions should be bound by the same rules as the Member States, we chose to incorporate this provision into the present regulation.
Finally, we constantly ensured that we respected the need to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the Member States with regard to legal procedures.
Indeed, insofar as these matters relate to procedural law in the Member States, they are based on the Member States' procedural autonomy and must not result in a restrictive legal instrument from the Union.
Finally, some of the proposals in the working document go beyond the obligations arising from the Århus Convention.
To conclude, I think we have reached a fair compromise which aims to promote, in accordance with the provisions of the Århus Convention, effective implementation of Community legislation on the environment.
I could, perhaps, summarise it by saying ‘the whole Århus Convention, and nothing but the Århus Convention’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with two related proposals which must both fit in with the philosophy of the Århus Convention and only with that philosophy.
The question of whether or not to comply with the provisions of the Århus Convention is not on the agenda.
The Århus Convention is undoubtedly a real advance, as it plays a part in establishing what has become essential transparency, and we are called upon here to present methods of providing the public with access to justice.
If this Convention is to be effective, however, it must bear the stamp of modernity and set in motion greater participation among all those who contribute to improving the environment in Europe.
With regard, more particularly, to the proposal for a directive, insofar as the Århus Convention will be implemented, the first question is whether the directive is really necessary.
In this case, it must also respect the principle of subsidiarity: this, I may add, is also the basis of our amendments.
This is because it is the Member States which will have to implement the requirements of the Århus Convention, and this must occur in accordance with the law in force in each of our countries and with the legal traditions applicable there.
As Socialists, we believe that access to justice must be as universal as possible, but must always take an organised form.
Commissioner, our institutions must set an example in the application of these rights.
As has been said quite rightly today, the Directive impinges deeply on the administrative and legal systems of many countries.
Through our request for a split vote on Amendment No&#160;40, you can correct that.
Only last week, Commissioner, events in the North Sea showed that fishermen’s organisations have the same need for, and should have at least the same right to, access to justice as BirdLife or other powerful international organisations.
This deadline could be obtained by means of a considerably simpler regulatory framework than the rather complicated situation we have at present.
As regards the application of the Århus Convention to the Community and also the correction that we want to make to the Directive, we have every opportunity of achieving these objectives by means of good governance. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Århus Convention is very important.
In practice, it reinforces the transparency of decisions in environmental matters directly affecting citizens and the latter’s chances of actually even influencing these decisions.
I myself have some difficulty in understanding the reason for rejecting this report.
The fact is that the European Union has signed this Convention.
The aim is to involve the new Member States so that, together with us, they meet the stipulations of this Convention.
Reading the report, it is also perfectly clear that it does not prevent any country from having more progressive legislation.
In my opinion, the draft adopted by the Committee on the Environment could be improved in a couple of respects.
Secondly, it is important not to stipulate a detailed definition of the term ‘environmental organisation’.
It is important that this report cover as large a part of the legislation as possible.
It is important that its scope also cover institutions such as the European Investment Bank, a major financial player, so that they have to comply with the obligations laid down in the report.
More seriously, this draft introduces some unacceptable measures.
To successfully implement this Convention, we must respect the principle of subsidiarity. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Wallström, I believe that the speeches by my fellow Members, especially those from my group but also from others, have pinpointed the fundamental problem that we have in this report.
What we are discussing is a rather more general issue, which we have interpreted, Commissioner, as the Commission trying to impose its will in order to make the Convention workable.
This has also been well documented in the speeches by various Members and in the tabled amendments: that is to say what some Members have portrayed as an attempt to fast-track environmental legislation.
From a legal point of view and given the legal background of the Union and the Member States, the reason for this is not understood.
We must be careful, however, not to go beyond the limit of the so-called special legislation.
If this risk were to arise in tomorrow’s final text, then I think that we would do well, as some Members have said, to vote against it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in all the years that Parliament and the Council have been adopting legislation together, it has very rarely happened that a proposal put forward by the European Commission is rejected on account of the principle of subsidiarity.
This is because it is extremely unusual for the European Commission to submit a proposal to implement the Aarhus Convention in European Community law by way of a directive when all Member States and nine of the ten accession countries have signed this Convention, and some have even ratified it.
The instrument of a directive to force Member States to include the Aarhus Convention in their national legislation is therefore disproportionate.
Furthermore, this proposal is based on Article 175, although it is in actual fact about the harmonisation of the Member States’ legal systems.
Just imagine replacing the words 'environmental legislation' with 'economic legislation' or anything else, and you would consider it absolutely natural that you have access to justice; that you allow these groups access to justice or a say on these issues.
Let me begin by commenting firstly on the proposed directive on access to justice.
Without a common framework with harmonised requirements, there is no means of guaranteeing that the requirements of the Århus Convention are met throughout the Union.
That follows from how environmental issues are defined here: what the Århus Convention is all about and what access to justice is all about in this field.
It is also done with respect for the principle of subsidiarity, as Member States are free to provide for access to justice for a larger public.
As regards the amendments put forward, the Commission can accept those that reinforce the principles of the proposal, in particular where reference is made to national legislation granting wider access to justice.
It is also important to provide as much legal clarity as possible.
In this vein, the Commission considers as problematic those amendments that would aim to deviate from the regime of exceptions set up under Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 on access to documents.
Neither can the Commission accept amendments that result in being overly prescriptive on the arrangements for public participation and in enlarging the access to justice provisions to complaints by individual members of the public.
Those amendments risk interfering with the provisions of the EC Treaty in this respect.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0139/2004), by Mr Manders, on behalf of the European Parliament's delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on environmental liability with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage. &#160;&#160; .
Because, after decades of debate, we have for the first time found a legal title that will enable us to ensure that the costs of repairing environmental damage can be recovered from the polluter.
Ultimately, I believe that the compromise can be described as successful.
This was also evident in the outcome of the vote in the conciliation delegation from Parliament, because 12 to 1 in favour of the result achieved is of course fantastic.
I also hope that the Member States will not abuse their licence policy and the state of science in order to upset the level playing field for economic activities, which we are after all so keen to create in the internal market, by some Member States allowing more than others and doing nothing to benefit the environment.
Once again, we have made a start, and I hope that this will result in something good.
I would therefore like to wholeheartedly thank her, her staff and, in particular, Charles Pirotti, who is also present today, for their constructive contribution to this matter.
I would like to invite the Commissioner to lunch or dinner, as her busy schedule has prevented us from giving a joint press conference.
Perhaps there will be time for a quick beer after this debate.
Thanks to this new directive, a comprehensive framework whereby environmental damage would be prevented or remedied through a system of environmental liability will be put in place for the first time.
I think that the text before you will constitute a significant step forward towards better environmental protection in Europe.
Many of its critics were already sceptical that the directive could be adopted before the elections or enlargement.
This directive will, for the first time, introduce compensation for damage to protected species and habitats – what is termed purely environmental damage.
Let me pick out one point that was at the heart of the debate until very recently, and which can be taken as representative of the directive’s many crucial issues: is there, or is there not, a mandatory financial security regime?
My group has always rejected compulsory insurance of this kind.
We have, for a start, managed to require the Commission, within six years, to submit a report on the availability of financial security provision, and what is very much of the essence is that it has undertaken to respond to the House’s concerns by presenting proposals for a system of harmonised mandatory financial security instruments.
The second reason why we will be voting in favour is that this House will be able to get the Commission to examine to what extent limited liability, as provided for in international conventions, is at present possible when goods are transported by sea.
I know that it has been very difficult to bring this very important Directive to fruition.
The ‘polluter pays’ principle is excellent.
After first reading we were very content, but after second reading we were no longer so content.
Now we have a compromise that we can live with, and it is a good thing that something has been achieved, after all.
The proposal that the Commission should present a report after six years on the mandatory financial security instruments, in particular, is incredibly important if these are to function at all.
One way of reaching a compromise at the final stage is through a declaration by the Commission, in which it makes clear that it intends to fulfil the obligations imposed on it by the compromise reached between Parliament and the Council.
I am not sure whether such a declaration would be binding, but I hope so, so that we do not drag our heels for these six years.
Perhaps Mrs&#160;Wallström could tell us something about the legal status of this type of declaration? &#160;&#160; Mr President, like all the other speakers so far, I must join the chorus and say that I believe this is a reasonable compromise.
As other speakers have said, the polluter-pays principle must be the right one.
Perhaps that is why we disagree with some of the other speakers in this debate.
As always, however, this Parliament, in fulfilling its responsibility – which seems excessive because, since Parliament has codecision powers, it appears to be characterised by a high degree of responsibility – has preferred to suffer slings and arrows in order to accept the compromise – I would not call it a compromise, but rather a diktat – imposed by the Council and the Commission and, to ensure that the proposed Directive can go ahead, has accepted these conditions.
Let us hope that the Commission does not wait for these long periods of three, six, nine and ten years, but that within a short space of time – probably as a result of another great accident, which will cause enormous damage in any part of the European Union, whether it be in the Baltic, the Mediterranean, the North Sea or any other place – it is obliged to present us, and to do so quickly, with a proposal which changes this and allows us to move ahead with much more precise rules.
Another issue which must be clarified is whether a Directive is the appropriate instrument or whether we need a Regulation which makes this type of rule obligatory, without waiting for the States to slowly fulfil their responsibilities towards their citizens. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too extend my congratulations on the important step to be taken at tomorrow’s vote.
I am bound to remark, as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, that the decision that our committee should undertake this work, much contested by colleagues in other committees, has been more than amply borne out in the practical and pragmatic response that we have had, and I think we have a workable proposal.
However, as a number of colleagues have said – and this is a time for looking forward rather than backwards, because we have the agreement on the table – there is a lot of work to do to establish the clear responsibilities with organisations and to ensure through the so-called competent authorities in Member States that companies' operating processes and anyone involved in potentially environmentally damaging activities are fully aware of their potential responsibilities under this directive.
I want to encourage the Commissioner – who, I hope, will leave something in place as part of her legacy as five years as Commissioner – to start to encourage Member States to exchange practice, firstly, about how they are going to establish their competent authorities or, indeed, how they are going to allocate responsibilities to existing environmental agencies that many of them have already established; and to establish the sort of networks of sharing of best practice that we are seeing in a number of other pan-European regulatory environments, such as energy and communications.
However, if, as we all believe, prevention is what we are after – rather than clearing up damage afterwards – we need to start action straight away and there is no excuse for delaying on that.
This issue has been with us and with those before us for many years.
We have managed to establish the platform and although we have all said that it is a first step, it is a very important first step.
This has of course been seen in the major accidents in Aznalcóllar in Spain, in&#160;1998, and also in Baia Mare in Romania, in&#160;2000, when tailings ponds burst, releasing large quantities of toxic substances.
The aim of this proposal is to introduce EU-wide rules to prevent water and soil pollution from long-term storage of waste in tailings ponds or heaps.
Combined with the amended Seveso II Directive on the control of major accident hazards involving dangerous substances, and a document on the best available techniques for the management of ponds for tailings and waste rocks, this proposed Directive will guarantee the appropriate management of waste from extraction throughout the EU.
The Commission shares the views of those who have said that the proposal must have a sufficiently broad scope, and that some exemptions, for example concerning waste from prospecting, should therefore be removed.
In this context, the exemption for inert waste should not be extended to cover all non-hazardous waste, as that would weaken the proposal.
At the same time, EU legislation in this field has been inefficient, as the existing directives on waste, some of which currently apply to mining waste, are ineffective and ill-suited to this type of industrial production.
This makes it perfectly clear that a new directive is needed in this field.
Hence, we should like to thank the Commission for its proposal.
This Directive will make that method inadmissible in future.
Firstly, it is important that this cover all relevant types of waste.
For that reason, we have chosen to remove a number of exemptions, for example concerning waste from prospecting.
I also think that it is important that it cover waste that is removed from the nearest production site.
It is important to realise that even waste that is not intrinsically or chemically hazardous can cause major environmental problems.
One of the key points in this report concerns historical waste, which is perhaps the greatest environmental problem of all.
We must also ensure that we really do address this issue, otherwise we are only going halfway towards tackling environmental problems.
This will represent an opportunity for the new Member States, in particular, to address these quite significant environmental problems.
I also think that this should be seen as an opportunity for new technology and for that research and development currently taking place in the EU that to some extent already leads the world in this field and, above all, can do so in the future.
On the subject of financial guarantees from companies, too, we opted for a compromise among the political groups even before first reading.
This involved our allowing Member States considerable freedom to give shape to these financial guarantees.
Regarding technical solutions to the various provisions of the proposal, my aim as rapporteur was that we avoid going into technical detail and shackling these proposals to various technical solutions: that would hinder adaptation to technological developments.
I hope that these proposals will enable us to address the fundamental problems that I mentioned at the beginning: preventing major dam collapses, making leakage of pollutants into the environment a thing of the past, and establishing legislation in this field that is effective in practice and comprehensive.
The framework for doing so is now in place.
I should like to take a couple of seconds to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the representatives of the Commission for their constructive cooperation. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, the main issue in this directive is the definition of waste in the extractive industry sector, where waste is either non-hazardous or hazardous.
The way some of the amendments have been worded with regard to inert waste only serves to confuse the whole situation, resulting in a sea of endless questions.
Non-hazardous waste, which is the kind of waste associated with extractive industries, is indeed non-hazardous, because it is material that has its origin in nature.
Now it is a question of whether we want to keep this industry in Europe under our own supervision and in compliance with the principle of sustainable development, or drive it outside the Union, where its environmental implications are beyond our control, through legislation that is too constraining and unfamiliar to the sector.
It is crucial that an explicit Minerals Policy for the European Union is drawn up, taking into account environmental and economic factors.
The question arises of whether all of what we do not at present use or process is to be categorised as waste.
What made discussions in Committee so difficult was the definition of waste, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, in its report, the Sjöstedt report, has opted very firmly for the definition that is already in the Waste Framework Directive.
It is right and proper that we should speak up in favour of making an inventory of the one and removing the other, but this requires more time.
In Amendments Nos 71 and 72, the rapporteur does not go far enough.
What we in Europe need is unified standards for the management of this waste, which will not only lead to greater similarity between the conditions under which companies compete in the Member States, but will also, at the same time, improve the public’s living conditions and their environment.
The fact that the plenary has only 20 amendments from the groups to vote on testifies to the good work we have done in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
I come from a country which encouraged mining activities without looking at the long-term consequences of these activities, and some of the mines have left a history of major problems which will reach far into the future; for example, Tynagh Mines in Ireland is one of the most obvious cases.
Many of us were somewhat surprised by the number of amendments initially tabled on the proposal, but in many ways that simply reflects the importance and the seriousness of the nature of this proposal.
Sadly, we in the UK have long been aware of the dangers of mining waste since the terrible disaster of Aberfan in 1966 and the terrible deaths that occurred there.
Consequently, our national legislation has been particularly strict and strong with regard to mining waste.
Nevertheless, I felt that the need for a registry of closed sites and previously occupied new sites was particularly important if we were really to establish the full extent of the problem across Europe.
This proposal does not contain a specific definition of waste from the extractive industries, but instead reproduces the general definition of waste from the Waste Framework Directive, 75/442/EEC.
This does not prevent such waste being reused for a beneficial purpose, for instance in construction materials.
Amendment No&#160;15 concerning Article&#160;2.3 proposes that material such as unpolluted topsoil and waste from prospecting be covered by the limited requirements pursuant to this Article.
The Commission can support this course of action, as it increases legal certainty and also improves environmental safeguards.
That part of Amendment No&#160;15 would have a significant impact on the overall effectiveness of the proposal, and the Commission cannot accept that.
Decisions on the rehabilitation itself should, however, rest with the Member States.
Nor can we accept amendments concerning the form of these guarantees, as the text should retain its present flexibility.
A transitional period has been granted for disposal facilities granted a permit before the entry into force of this Directive.
Amendments Nos&#160;32 and 57 establish a direct link to the objectives of the Water Framework Directive, and Amendment No&#160;46 establishes a direct link toprotected areas.
The Commission supports these amendments, which have the same objectives as the Commission proposal and which increase consistency with other important EU legislation.
As many Members have said, action is needed, as these problems are much more common than we think, as are the recurrent accidents in Europe and around the world.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12&#160;noon. (2) The Commission can accept the following amendments wholly or partly and subject to rewording: 5, 6, 10, 18, 19, 25, 26, 27, 28, 90, 31, 32, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 42, 43, 52, 56, 58, 62, 64, 69, 71, 73, 75, 77, 79, 82, 85, 86, 95, 96, 97, 98, 106, 109 and 119.
The explicit reference in the amendment to banning the export of horses for production or slaughter would require a specific legal examination in this regard.
The Commission would support Amendments Nos 28, 73 and 95 on the use of a satellite navigation system provided that the measure only applies to vehicles carrying out long journeys.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 29, 33, 34, 41, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 53, 54, 55, 57, 59, 60, 61, 63, 65, 66, 67, 68, 70, 72, 74, 76, 78, 80, 81, 83, 84, 87, 88, 89 to 94, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 107, 108, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 120, 121, 122, 123 or 124.
The Commission can accept the following amendments as part of the compromise package: 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15.
The Commission cannot accept the other amendments.
The Commission can accept the following amendments as part of the compromise package: 9, 10 and 11.
The Commission cannot accept the other amendments.
The Commission can accept the following amendments as part of the compromise package: 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22.
The Commission cannot accept the other amendments.
The Commission can accept the following amendments: 1, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17 and 20 to 91.
The Commission can accept the following amendments subject to rewording: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 16, 18 and 19.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment: 7.
The Commission position on the 112 amendments is as follows: it accepts 10 amendments in full – 8, 9, 12, 14, 18, 29, 35, 46, 50 and 78; it accepts 19 amendments in principle – 3, 7, 11, 13, 15, 16, 17, 24, 30, 31, 32, 40, 52, 77, 81, 82, 95, 102 and 107; it accepts 9 amendments in part – 33, 34, 41, 52, 53, 63, 70, 93 and 111; it rejects 74 amendments in full – 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 10, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 27, 28, 36, 37, 38, 39, 42, 43, 44, 47, 48, 49, 51, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 79, 80, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 94, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 103, 104, 105, 106, 108, 109, 110 and 112.
As regards the Commission position with respect to the amendments tabled by Parliament to the proposed regulation to apply the Århus Convention to Community institutions and bodies, the Commission wishes to confirm the following: The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 12, 17, 20 and 36.
The Commission can partially accept Amendments Nos 18 (only the part relating to the 15-day deadline for answer), 25 (only as regards reference to publication of the act) and 43 (reference to 'in accordance with national law' in principle).
The remaining amendments cannot be accepted by the Commission.
As regards the Commission position with respect to the amendments tabled by Parliament, the Commission wishes to confirm the following: The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 5, 16 and 17.
The Commission can partially accept Amendments Nos 4 (2nd part), 9 (final), 18 (1st and 3rd parts) but subject to either rewording or reordering.
The Commission can accept in principle Amendments Nos 1, 6, 20, 21 and 23.
The remaining amendments cannot be accepted by the Commission (for information, the amendments not accepted are 2, 3, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 19, 22, and 24 to 44).
The Commission can accept the following amendments: 3, 5, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 26, 27, 28, 31, 32, 35, 37, 39, 51, 52, 54, 57, 59, 60, 75, 76, 79, 85, 91, 97 and 99 – 32 amendments altogether.
Amendments Nos 2, 6, 15, 17, 25, 29, 30, 42, 46, 47, 50, 63, 66, 67, 70, 71, 72, 82, 84, 86, 87, 92, 93, 94, 96 and 98 can be accepted in principle and or in part – 26 amendments altogether.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 1, 4, 8, 9, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 33, 34, 36, 38, 40, 41, 43, 44, 45, 48, 53, 55, 56, 58, 61, 62, 64, 65, 68, 69, 73, 74, 77, 78, 80, 81, 83, 88, 89, 90 and 95 – 40 amendments altogether.
