Economic and trade relations with Korea (debate) The next item is the report by David Martin, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the trade and economic relations with Korea.
I would also like to thank Commissioner Mandelson and his services for the good cooperation I have had from the Commission in producing this report, and also the Korean Ambassador, whose assistance enabled me to get an insight into the Korean position on these negotiations.
As such, it can be a template for further FTAs, and I would like to see our ambitions in relation to environmental and social standards raised.
The motion is timely: free trade negotiations with South Korea were launched in May 2007, and have progressed rapidly so far.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, let me first congratulate my colleague, the rapporteur Mr Martin, for a high-quality and comprehensive report.
It is therefore necessary for Korea, in addition to this agreement, to make a commitment to the EU in which Korea undertakes to observe European social standards, and in particular the basic elements linked to decent work, as well as environmental and consumer protection standards.
On the positive side, the report sets out some very good standards for trade and social and environmental fields, which Greens absolutely support, and in that respect I think the report sets a very important precedent for further upcoming parliamentary responses to other free trade agreements, with India and ASEAN, for example.
Europe must insist on the elimination of all these barriers, and must be able to come to agreements that are at least as advantageous as those of the free trade agreement between South Korea and the United States. (DE) Mr President, as leader of the European Parliament Delegation for relations with the Korean Peninsula, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur specifically and say that I am very happy to back this report.
What we as the European Union expect is that our safety standards are accepted by Korea just as we, too, accept Korea's standards in this sector.
Korea is the EU's fourth largest trade partner outside Europe, whereas in 2006 the EU was the largest foreign investor in Korea.
Mr President, I wish to join with the other speakers in congratulating Mr Martin on his report on a free trade agreement with South Korea, which is the EU's fourth largest trading partner outside Europe and the world's eleventh largest economy.
Lastly, Ms Mann asks whether the European Parliament can obtain rights earlier than the Treaty ratification in respect of this agreement.
