&#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the Council and Commission statements on the preparation of the Brussels European Council on 4 and 5 November.
The last European Council under a Netherlands presidency took place in Amsterdam in June 1997 and resulted, as you know, in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
In 1997, as a consequence of the procedures for approval of the Maastricht Treaty – which had caused problems in some Member States – the issue of how the Union could be brought closer to the citizens was added as an agenda item.
At the forthcoming summit we shall also be discussing citizens' involvement in the European Union.
I shall start with cooperation in the area of justice and home affairs.
On the basis of the Tampere European Council programme, much work has been done over the last five years to create a European area of freedom, security and justice.
The European Union has strengthened cooperation between the Member States' justice and police departments and developed policy in the area of asylum, migration and external borders, but the work is not complete.
In addition, the attacks of 11 September 2001 in New York and 11 March 2004 in Madrid have shown more than ever the extraordinary scale of the challenge of improving citizens' security.
At the same time, the Union must ensure that citizens can continue to enjoy their fundamental freedoms and travel freely within the Union.
The Council has therefore drawn up the programme for the next five years on the basis of the evaluation submitted by the Commission in June.
This new multiannual programme – also called The Hague Programme – builds on the Tampere Programme.
Over the last two days the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers have been discussing this project further in Luxembourg.
The issue of qualified majority voting and codecision on asylum and immigration matters may, however, be the subject of further discussion in the General Affairs Council.
The Hague Programme is based on the Constitutional Treaty but does not anticipate it.
Other aspects of the new multiannual programme include combating illegal immigration, a strengthened partnership with third countries and a common visa policy, formulating basic principles for the integration of migrants, effective border surveillance, rapid information exchange between justice, police and security departments, combating terrorism and working towards a genuine European legal area.
The intention is that the European Council will ask the Commission to submit an action plan in 2005 with the measures to be adopted and related deadlines for the implementation of this multiannual programme.
The second topic is the preparation of the mid-term review of the Lisbon strategy.
The Netherlands presidency wishes to make its contribution to the success of this important Spring Council.
The discussion will be introduced by the German Chancellor, the Prime Minister of Finland and the Prime Minister of Slovakia.
The new President of the Commission will then explain briefly his vision for the future of the Lisbon strategy.
The role of the social partners in implementing the Lisbon strategy will also be on the agenda at this European Council.
To prepare the discussion in the European Council, the presidency organised an informal meeting of the European Affairs Ministers on 5 October, exclusively devoted to increasing citizens' involvement in Europe.
The meeting focused on the forthcoming ratification procedures in Member States, which entail referenda in at least ten countries.
The outcome of that meeting will serve as the basis for discussion within the European Council.
The third topic of importance to the European Council is external relations.
First, the situation in Iraq: the European Council will examine a package of support measures for Iraq's interim government.
The package will, I hope, contain a political statement of intent for establishing relations with the EU and also a series of specific measures supporting the Iraqi Interim Government.
The European Council will also address the situation in the Middle East.
We will look at how the EU can further contribute to the peace process in the short and medium term against the background of the political decision in Israel on plans to withdraw from the Gaza Strip.
The Council will also discuss positive action, including the support the EU can offer to the recently approved extension of the African Union's mission in Darfur.
The present Commission’s term of office is coming to an end, and that of a new Commission will begin.
It is important to point out that there is no dispute about the great issues facing Europe today, and that European policy will still be reliable, stable and constant even after the offices have changed over.
It was with this in mind that Mr Barroso, whom you have already elected as President of the Commission, reaffirmed yesterday morning that the next Commission, every bit as much as the present one, was committed to creating a competitive Europe and to making the European economy more competitive.
The topics with which the European Council intends to deal next week are very closely connected to these issues.
The Commission is working on the assumption that it, on the basis of this report, will be mandated to draft concrete proposals for this mid-term review in preparation for the Council’s Spring Summit.
The Commission is still willing to closely consider all the options as to how the process can actually be got moving and can also be better supervised.
The Commission believes that the EU must now really focus on the growth aspect.
There is no doubt that Europe needs dynamic and sustainable growth in order to create more jobs and thus securely underpin our social model.
Europe needs us to implement the reforms that make for more economic dynamism.
We should not forget that some of our Member States are still far from possessing really adequate social protection.
We are sharing in the work on these measures, and we welcome the work that is being done by the high-level group representing Parliament, the Commission and the Council on improving lawmaking.
Turning to the area of freedom, security and justice, the European Council will be adopting, by way of following up the Tampere programmes, a multiannual programme that will determine what the Union does in this area over the coming years.
Since Tampere, we have laid the foundations for a common area of freedom, security and justice.
The new Hague Programme will continue these efforts with the same vision and with a renewed willingness to cooperate with an enlarged and enlarging Union founded on the basic values of justice, freedom and security for all its citizens.
Since Tampere, we have adapted our priorities to take account of the many tragic events and appalling atrocities that we have had to witness in recent years.
These aspects remind us that we have to find the right way between the need for, and right to, freedom on the one hand and security considerations on the other.
Where security is concerned, the events of recent years have compelled us to make the combating of terrorism a priority.
Next week’s European Council will also consider the question of how to communicate Europe to its citizens.
Here in the House, I do not need to enlarge on this task, for it is one with which every one of you has to do on a daily basis, and I am sure that we all agree that communication can be improved and needs to be one of our principal priorities.
There is a perceptible gulf between the European institutions and the public, and we must close it.
I believe that the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty in all the Member States will provide a great opportunity for discussing Europe with the public and for involving them in its political processes.
While the ratification process remains a matter for the national level, the Commission will, while it is going on, communicate more with people in order to be of assistance wherever they need to be informed about the Constitution or have its advantages for our Union explained to them.
It does of course go without saying that a communications offensive of this kind can be mounted only in close cooperation and partnership with the European Parliament.
Your House has already received the proposals that the Commission adopted at the beginning of this month, and I think we have reached a very important point where enlargement is concerned.
Even today, we can predict, with a fair degree of certainty, that the fifth enlargement will be completed, as planned, by the accession of Romania and Bulgaria in 2007.
The Commission believes that next week’s European Council will provide an outstanding opportunity to demonstrate both the continuity of European policy and its new-found dynamism. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important items at next week’s European Council is, of course, the report on the mid-term review of the Lisbon process.
I therefore wish the Dutch Presidency success in providing the initial impetus that steers the debate in the right direction.
The obvious question, however, is how to achieve what we need to do.
What Europe must do, however, is to facilitate the evolution of Lisbon, and many things are needed and indeed possible in order to do this.
Even changing our vocabulary could help move the matter a great deal further forward.
We must refine the message, but we must also provide a good messenger, and indeed this is something we have been lacking in recent years.
Ladies and gentlemen, if you are planning to vote against the proposed Commission later on, bear in mind that this will be another factor causing considerable delay to the evolution of the Lisbon process, and people can really do without that.
President-in-Office of the Council, I wish you every success. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists has concerns about the Dutch Presidency.
Whilst Heads of State or Government such as Mr&#160;Verhofstadt of Belgium and Mr&#160;Persson of Sweden are adamant that they would not want the likes of Mr&#160;Buttiglione either in their own or the European administration, you refuse to give the President of the Barroso Commission a signal to indicate that he must back down and meet the manifest wish of a majority in the European Parliament.
Mr President, in view of current events, Liberals and Democrats in this House will have enjoyed the President–in–Office's deadpan presentation of a Council agenda of almost baroque design.
This Council will work through the findings of the Kok Report on reviving the Lisbon Agenda.
The goal is delivering sustainable prosperity and a better quality of life for Europe's citizens in a way that reflects the innate potential and unique dynamic of European life, not crossing some notional finish line ahead of China or the United States.
The Kok Report rightly stresses the need for European Member States to coordinate better.
What matters this weekend is that the Kok Report does not become a substitute for concerted action by the Council.
The Council will also address the multiannual agenda for justice and home affairs, the 'Tampere-Plus', of which Mr Verheugen spoke.
The fight against terrorism and the urgent need for better judicial and police cooperation must be priorities.
Liberals and Democrats will be particularly vigilant in ensuring that measures to make us safer in Europe do not erode our fundamental freedoms.
The Union will soon have new legislation on procedural safeguards and the rights of defendants, and we remind the Council that those rights are non-negotiable.
These rights must form the centrepiece of the new agenda.
Now the elephant is here, and I hope that it will listen to what this House says today, reflect on our rights and the way we choose to exercise them and respect the prerogatives of this Chamber, whatever happens during the vote today. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to ask the President-in-Office two questions.
My second question is about the Lisbon strategy: before I go into it in detail, I should like to know how the Presidency is thinking of organising the relationships between the three high-level reports that have recently been produced: the Strauss-Kahn report, the Sapir report and the latest Kok report.
I should be grateful if the President-in-Office could tell us something about these two points.
I should like to know what the Presidency intends to do on this subject as well.
With regard to the sphere of justice and home affairs, we have two concerns on topics you will be discussing.
The report also mentions increasing the asylum capacity of third countries, something that I find particularly heartless when talking about developing countries.
I should be grateful if you could tell us why this general opposition to the camps is then somehow picked up again in the report and how the Presidency intends to approach this issue.
Lastly, Mr President-in-Office, a question about the issue of enlargement or, rather, about this period straddling enlargement and the accession of the new Member States.
I should like to know whether the Presidency intends to do anything about the Turkish Cypriot question.
As you know, the leader of the Turkish Cypriot community has lost his majority.
I should be grateful to hear what you intend to do, because the European Union clearly cannot abandon the Turkish Cypriots as it is doing at the moment. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, after this debate, Parliament has the opportunity to demonstrate that it is not a puppet of the Council and the Commission.
If the new European Commission is voted down under the Dutch Presidency, that will go down in history as the moment when European democracy took a step forward.
It is there that the new challenge lies following the failure of Lisbon. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union’s communications strategy has just been drawn up.
This is the only way in which democracy and pluralism will gain respect in this House, in the EU Member States and in the candidate countries.
Mr&#160;Verheugen has said Europe must be competitive, and we agree that it must be competitive in relation to other regions of the world.
Policy is extremely important in this field, for example in the case of Darfur.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Nicolaï, Commissioner, at the EU summit in November the German Chancellor will put forward proposals for the full liberalisation of the EU energy market by 2007, as well as for the creation of a European system for monitoring financial markets and for the harmonisation of the principles of financial transactions in the 25&#160;Member States.
Instead, it fits in with the latest proposals put forward by the French Finance Minister, Mr&#160;Sarkozy, the implementation of which would be a particular blow to the economies of the new Member States.
We will not agree to this. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, my thanks to Mr&#160;Nicolaï for his presentation.
In my opinion, he has identified three very important issues on behalf of the Council; the first being the Lisbon agenda.
I am not referring to those grand plans some people have for a ‘Super-Commissioner’ or something similar, and the change is not only from above, but more oriented towards the countries themselves: where can good examples be found; how can we support them?
We must lend support to these success factors, but one aspect of this is the need for better determination of whether national parliaments are really keeping their side of the bargain.
I should like firstly to congratulate Commissioner Verheugen for the extraordinary report on Turkey with which he has provided us.
The discussion we began to have in the Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday evening has enabled us to distinguish two ‘clans’.
The first is already beginning to draw up a formal list of everything Turkey should do before the accession negotiations are even entered into.
Others, like my own group, are, however, of the view that, at the geopolitical and geostrategic levels, Turkey constitutes an opportunity for Europe.
We must examine the conditions of this accession very seriously.
We must not already say ‘yes’ or ‘no’, but begin to work in an entirely even-handed way, that is to say in the same way that we have worked with the other countries.
I should like, however, to express surprise, Mr&#160;Verheugen, that the report does not contain more scenarios or perspectives regarding the repercussions that Turkey’s accession might have for our social model.
The report contains only very vague ideas about the adjustments Europe would have to make following a future accession, and these seem to me to be quite inadequate.
We shall be particularly vigilant in this regard, no less than we shall be regarding the issue of human rights in Turkey. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, public opinion and the people of Europe expect three things from the European Council.
The first is that the Council make clear progress in the fight against terrorism.
The Madrid attacks reminded us of how urgent it is to make significant progress, especially in the fields of cooperation between police forces, the organisation of Europol and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
The second thing we expect is that you do not go back on the protection of fundamental rights, whether this be in connection with exchanges of data, which must be subject to strict legal controls, or whether, above all, it be in connection with asylum and immigration, which cannot be subject to solutions that ignore human rights.
Thirdly and finally – and while being very pleased that the Dutch Presidency is actually going down this road – we expect you to cross an important threshold by making the whole of Title IV of the Treaty establishing the European Community subject to codecision, which is a guarantee of democracy, and to qualified majority voting, which is a guarantee of efficiency. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council has talked a great deal today about the need to have a safer Europe.
In the Lisbon review, I urge you to correct any faulty – or indeed accurate –interpretations of the strategy that have the unfortunate effect of increasing the gap between rich and poor, able and disabled, strong and weak. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is clear that more initiatives will have to be implemented if the European Union is to become the most knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010.
The EU 2005 programme must be fully implemented so as to increase broadband access to schools and libraries and ensure that all our young people are guaranteed access to high-speed Internet services and development skills.
I also believe that the EU must implement the recommendations of the European Employment Task Force.
This Task Force seeks to promote greater flexibility in education, training and innovation, encourages greater flexibility on the part of workers and companies, and removes disincentives to employment.
The European Council is going to ask the European Commission to develop a broader communications strategy.
This will be the job of Commissioner Wallström, who will have a key role in explaining how Europe takes its decisions and why Europe makes these decisions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I speak on behalf of the New Italian Socialist Party, represented in this Chamber by myself and Mr De Michelis.
While acknowledging the major results that have been achieved, it is also important to highlight those areas and fields of activity where Community action has fallen short and been too slow in comparison with the parameters set by the Lisbon strategy.
As reformists, we also want to re-emphasise the importance of the fact that growth and economic development cannot and must not occur to the detriment of the social model of European solidarity that has been put forward, which can be brought up to date but must not have its guidelines and principles eroded away.
At the same time, certain governments are attempting to share their problems with others, for example by proposing tax harmonisation or initiatives to support European giants instead of the small and medium-sized enterprises that are far more important.
And last but not least, the European Parliament should not only be kept informed of decisions relating to the Lisbon strategy, but should also have an influence on such decisions, as this would facilitate the building of consensus at national level.
I am not interested in formal acknowledgements or ritual tributes, but I do wonder, Mr Verheugen, if this is the type of continuity to which you alluded.
Apart from that, however, there are three good reasons to consider this third pillar of the Lisbon strategy to be still relevant.
The second is that, as chance would have it, the environment is precisely the field in which the Member States are furthest behind schedule in their implementation of Community policies.
I should like to speak on two matters: the first concerns Lisbon.
The European social model can certainly be combined with competitiveness, cohesion and solidarity, which are not mere buzzwords but need to be transformed into political actions.
These figures are appalling.
If it is true that the Lisbon Agenda has been one big failure, as President Prodi recently stated at the end of his term in office, it has failed solely in terms of the expectations it aroused and the promises it made in social areas, namely full employment and social inclusion, and in terms of knowledge and research.
With regard to the important and sensitive problem of asylum, however, I believe we should encourage the perhaps belated efforts to relocate the examination of asylum-seekers’ files and situations to the territories of third countries, where it should come within the political and social remit of those countries – and I am thinking of the African countries here.
No British Parliament has ever voted to pass British taxpayers' public money to third parties who cannot be trusted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome this debate, which takes place only two weeks before the European Council discusses Wim Kok's report on the Lisbon Agenda.
The health of the European economy is a matter of deep concern to millions of our citizens who remain without a job.
In July when Prime Minister Balkenende addressed Parliament, he said that Europe's economy has 'stiff joints and makes little use of its head'.
It seems to me that Parliament, the Commission and the Kok Working Group all agree that real progress needs to be made.
The question is whether Europe has the courage to move to action, rather than just continuing to express words. &#160;&#160; Having taken two minutes to consider the matter, I would like to state that what Mr Mote is asking for is of course contrary to the laws of the European Union.
I say this in order that the Minutes may record that Mr Mote made an illegal demand in this House. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased that both the President-in-Office and Commissioner Verheugen stressed that the Kok report is not an end-point but a starting point for the mid-term review of Lisbon to be concluded at next year's spring summit.
We need improved competitiveness to maintain our European social model, but that model is a productive factor in itself for achieving competitiveness.
I think that is in large part due to the comprehensive framework of health and safety laws we have had in place in Europe for over a decade.
We must move on from the general fight against terrorism to a European political project able to deal with the fight against Islamist terrorism; from general plans to combat terrorism, we must move on to explaining what concrete measures our fight against a specific organisation requires.
The Prime Minister of Luxembourg, replacing the European Union’s President-in-Office, has stated that combating terrorism is our continent’s priority, since the attacks in Madrid, the Philippines and Asia show that this problem affects all of us.
All those in danger must be able to find refuge in Europe.
Our objective is still to obtain an acceptable level of European harmonisation.
European cooperation against terrorism should also continue to be strengthened and, in particular, it should be made easier for the relevant national services and the services responsible for the fight against terrorism to exchange information.
This must go hand in hand with a strengthening of the roles of Europol and Eurojust.
We therefore call upon the Member States to remain faithful to the spirit of Tampere in order to respond to these challenges. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nicolaï, Commissioner, in the 1980s, Jacques Delors gave the European project a new impetus and a new vision, when he proposed the internal market and the single currency.
Scant progress has been made and in a matter of days Mr Kok will present his interim evaluation report, which will be the main item on the agenda at the November European Summit.
We are not yet able to comment on the conclusions of the interim report in this House, but I do wish to raise two points that I feel are extremely relevant.
The first relates to the fact that when the intention of a strategy is to influence everything, it normally influences nothing.
We must therefore set clear priorities within a clear strategy.
There is no point in favouring the economic strand of the strategy to the detriment of the social or environmental strand, or vice-versa.
What we must do is set out political priorities for all of the strands.
The second point is that I wish to emphasise that the Lisbon Strategy cannot only be seen as a responsibility of the EU.
One last word, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to welcome the position taken by the President – or so I hope – of the next European Commission, in making the Lisbon Strategy a priority for his term in office. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to begin by emphasising strongly how pleased I am to be here in your midst, particularly against the background of questions asked in the course of the very important debate on the Commission that I attended yesterday.
The main thing, however, is that you can be assured that we are following everything that is said here about the extremely important issue of Parliament’s decision on the new Commission particularly closely.
The Presidency is keeping in close contact with all the parties concerned and is not missing a word: you can be assured of that.
However involved we feel in this, fully fledged democracy determines that Parliament enters into discussion with the new Commission President.
That, too, is compatible with the fully fledged democracy that is Europe.
In fact, the only general criticism I have heard regarding the role of the Presidency has come from Dutch Member Mr&#160;van&#160;den&#160;Berg from the Socialists Group in the European Parliament, but other than that I feel encouraged, on the whole, in the path we are taking as a Presidency.
As regards the coming European Council, many of you have called for attention to the Lisbon Strategy.
I should therefore like to formally draw attention to the fact that, as you know, the Spring European Council is the crucial European Council – the one at which decisions on the whole Lisbon Strategy are to be taken – and that the activities of this November’s European Council should be seen as a preparation for this Spring European Council, to be led by the Luxemburg Presidency.
Nevertheless, a great deal is at stake, and I very much agree with everyone – Mr&#160;Verheugen was the first to emphasise this – that it is extremely important to give a renewed impetus to this Lisbon Strategy, and therefore to the development of the most competitive possible knowledge-based economy in the world.
I also very much agree with the many people, such as Mr&#160;Eurlings and Mr Jonathan Evans, who have called for action rather than words; for theory to be translated into tangible actions.
Mrs&#160;Thyssen was one of the first to underline this, but Mr&#160;Watson, Mr Eurlings and others also emphasised that it is important to have the courage to implement structural reforms at national level.
The implementation of such badly needed reforms will involve an exchange of national experiences.
Some have pointed out that the balance in the Lisbon Strategy, as presented here by the Presidency, and as planned for discussion in the European Council, is not correct, paying too little attention to the components other than economic growth itself, namely the social and environmental components.
Of course, the Council will have its say and will have to draw its own conclusions but, in Council, the Presidency will explicitly hold on to the three pillars that the Lisbon Strategy had and must continue to have.
Mr&#160;Eurlings and Mr Bourlanges and many others rightly made this remark.
It has also been rightly pointed out that, in the face of the great need to produce closer cooperation and come up with more extreme possibilities and measures in the fight against terrorism, we must not lose sight of the essential fundamental human rights and freedoms.
Some – Mrs&#160;Frassoni and Mr&#160;Catania – asked more specifically about the ideas on asylum and migration policy.
Cooperation is needed with the third countries from which the asylum seekers originate.
This means that we must show real commitment on our part, but can also expect something from these third countries as regards migration and asylum.
Many, including Mr&#160;Eurlings and Mr Bourlanges and Mrs&#160;Rühle, have rightly and very importantly referred to the question of principle that is the desired transition to qualified majority voting and codecision in this whole field of asylum and migration.
At all events, the Presidency is making a supreme effort towards this, and so I hope that we can achieve a sufficiently positive decision in this direction.
A number of you have drawn attention to a third item that also features on the agenda of the coming European Council, which concerns the problem of ‘communicating Europe’: that is to say, promoting greater involvement of citizens in Europe, in what you do here, in what the Council does, in what the Commission does, in what we do in Brussels.
Various remarks have been made about this, but in all cases there was agreement that this subject requires a better, more vigorous approach, because we cannot carry on like this: distributing pamphlets and then keeping our fingers crossed that citizens finally understand the merit and importance of the work that we are all doing here.
In that sense, I also agree with Mr&#160;Piotrowski, for example, who says that we should not just give one side of the story, but also include the aspects of criticism and scepticism.
Indeed, let us not fear criticism, let us not fear debates in which negative judgments are expressed, nor let us fear clashes between various institutions such as Parliament and Commission as regards the maturity of the democracy and the encouragement of debate, because debate will ultimately be the most important means to enhance citizens’ involvement in Europe.
When they see that important things are decided here on which opinions can differ and on which citizens also have an opinion, they will become involved in Europe, and then – and I also address this to Mr&#160;Battilocchio – Europe will be less remote than many people currently find it.
Commission, Council, national governments will need to have something set aside in order to attend to this.
There will of course be a presentation, and we are all familiar with the important and very valuable Commission report on this.
I also concur with the remarks that she and others made about Turkey, namely that we must focus on the various aspects, on the opportunities and positive sides.
By way of conclusion, Mrs&#160;Frassoni put a specific question regarding the Turkish part of Cyprus and what the Council intends to do about it.
I hope that I have covered the key issues and responded to the issues that Parliament has raised.
Otherwise, I shall of course remain here at your request. &#160;&#160; This is a free country, Mr Nicolaï.
I would like to spell out some home truths about the relationship between the Lisbon strategy, the environment, and the social framework.
If, though, we want to have the highest possible environmental and social standards, we need the economy to be as competitive as possible, with competitive industries and competitive businesses.
I noticed that in this debate, in which, for example, Members spoke about quite different concepts of the European social model, with one Member saying that workers in Europe were over-protected, and others saying that they enjoyed too few social rights.
One said that reform must mean the dismantling of social rights; another that it must involve more social rights.
If, over the coming years, I get the chance to do some work in this area of policy, I will not play along with this policy of suppression and concealment.
I am grateful to Mrs Frassoni for again raising the subject of Cyprus, which gives me the chance to tell your House something more about it.
I do not wish to conceal from you how deeply disappointed I am that it proved impossible to keep the promise made to the Turkish Cypriots after the April referendum by this Parliament, this Council, this Commission and the international community as a whole.
The Council has not yet been able to adopt the Commission proposal to this effect, and I appeal urgently, not only to the Government of the Republic of Cyprus, but also to a number of other Member States, to ensure, as a matter of urgency, that the policies of the international community and of the European Union in relation to Cyprus are implemented.
The damage already done to the prospects for a resolution of the Cyprus issue is beyond calculation, and the Commission urges that its proposal be adopted before the end of this year and that the promise we all made to the Turkish Cypriots be actually kept.
Let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with an observation on the economic effects of the enlargement that has already taken place and of the plans we have for the future.
Mr Buzek said something very important, and the Commission endorses his view that the membership of the ten countries has brought with it a very beneficial economic surge.
Our analysis shows clearly that enlargement has brought favourable economic results, not only in the new Member States, but also in the old ones, that both sides are benefiting from our integration of what are growing regions.
We can expect the same thing of the accessions of Romania and Bulgaria, which are in the offing.
Speaking personally, for I can say this only for myself, I am firmly convinced that, if the process of political and economic reform continues in Turkey over the next ten years, the result will be an economic situation in that country which, were it to accede, would put us in the same win-win situation as we have already had with the enlargement to include the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
These countries’ accessions will not imperil our social standards; quite the contrary, they will make Europe stronger, and they will help us to achieve our goals. &#160;&#160; I have been notified by the French authorities that, with effect from 22 October, Mrs&#160;Simonot has been replaced by Mr Le Rachinel.
After the first five years of implementation of the Tampere decisions restricting democratic rights and freedoms and the anti-labour Lisbon strategy, they are planning a second five-year attack with new, more repressive, anti-grass roots measures.
I have come to the conclusion that if a vote were to take place today, the outcome would not be positive for the European institutions or for the European project.
These last few days have demonstrated that the European Union is a strong political construction and that this Parliament, elected by popular vote across all our Member States, has a vital role to play in the governance of Europe.
I can always offer you loyal, constructive cooperation for the good of Europe and the European Union project. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr Barroso.
The Treaties clearly lay down that the new Commission must commence its duties on 1 November and that beforehand the European Parliament must give its opinion on a proposal.
Mr Barroso tells us that there is no proposal.
The consequence of this situation is that the current Prodi Commission will stay in office for as long as is necessary. &#160;&#160; Before the President continues his considerations, perhaps we should hear the Presidents of the political groups.
I believe there is a point of order.
Mr Pannella has the floor for a point of order. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my point of order is based on the combined provisions of Article 214 of the Treaty and Rule 99(2) and Rule 132 of the parliamentary Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, the point of order that I want to raise, as you have already correctly pointed out, concerns the deadline set by the Treaty for November, in a few days’ time.
Our group has always had the strategic objective of having a strong Commission presided over by you, and of not isolating one single member of your team.
In difficult times, when, on Friday, the Constitutional Treaty is to be signed in Rome, with us affirming our belief in our continent’s future, we want a strong European Parliament, a strong Commission and a Council of Ministers that works well with both institutions.
Mr President, I am quite happy to sacrifice two minutes of my time to hooliganism in the European Union.
My group’s resolution, taken unanimously yesterday evening, was preceded by hard, tough debates and serious disagreements, even in our own ranks.
The decision we took yesterday evening is that we, despite everything, cannot have confidence in the Commission that you, Mr Barroso, would have proposed, or intended to propose, this morning.
What you are doing this morning opens up the way to a shared future for all of us, both the Commission and the broad majority in the European Parliament.
I was pleased to hear Mr Poettering say that he supported this development, and I can tell him that it is never too late to join those who said that the European Parliament also needs to be strengthened when debates are cut short, when they are reduced to a presentation, on the basis that the European Parliament talks sense only when it agrees with the Commission.
Those who want a strong Commission, enabled to work by the broad support for it in the European Parliament, are those who want one strong institution – the Commission – supported by another strong institution – Parliament – to be capable of dealing with the real challenges of the years to come.
If you seek to make it dependent on the votes of that gentleman, whose three or four votes just might help the Commission get a majority, then you are weakening Europe.
That is why a broad majority is necessary.
My group expects you, in your future considerations, to bear in mind the proposals that this House put to you at the end of the hearings.
Speaking on behalf of my group, I can tell you that we also expect your considerations to be influenced by what the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has told you, for one thing is clear, and that is that you will need my group’s support for your future Commission too.
On 22 July, you had 413 votes, some of them from members of my group.
We in the European Parliament’s Socialist Group are ready for constructive collaboration, and that is the road you have chosen today – something we have sometimes missed over the last few weeks.
However, our will and our willingness to stand by our judgment prevailed.
You know that when pro–Europeans criticise your Commission, they are not doing the work of Euroscepticism, but the very opposite: today, Euroscepticism loses because the voice of democracy in Europe has risen by an octave and has made itself heard in every national capital and beyond.
Mr&#160;Poettering, you and Mr&#160;Barroso should read some Mao Zedong together.
What that means is that you, if someone proposed by a Member State is not competent, will, with our support, reject the proposal rather than simply accept it.
With us, you will be strong enough to do that; we will be right behind you.
And that has nothing to do with ideology.
That resolution contains the arguments on the basis of which we will judge the next proposals.
It is a victory for European democracy and a great encouragement to all those who helped create the conditions for this decision.
In this context, the challenge to be taken up by European leaders at all levels was, and remains, that of daring to carry out a critical evaluation of what is now lacking and of showing that they are determined to invest the European adventure with meaning again, for, contrary to what you said, Mr&#160;Barroso, I, for my part, believe in Europe.
That is what, in our view, must change in the future Commission, not just the identity of the person responsible for a particular portfolio.
Others have said it before me: what we have here are fresh stirrings of political confrontation in the European Parliament, finally replacing half-heartedness and feeble consensus.
No one can blame the European Parliament for using its limited powers to reject the Commission, but the undignified hounding of an individual Commissioner shows that the best form of control is obtained if each country’s electorate and own national parliament chooses its own Commissioner and holds him or her responsible.
The different procedures used to date have not, in fact, guaranteed either impartial methods or respect for true democracy.
In response to the statement by the Council representative, we do not consider that the Prodi Commission can remain in office for as long as necessary.
The Prodi Commission must remain in office for ordinary administration until the next plenary part-session of Parliament in Strasbourg.
Anyone who tries to protect differences in culture or sexual orientation by discriminating against the culture or religious beliefs of others is not acting for the common good but perpetrating new discrimination.
If this anecdote were to be translated, taken seriously, and adapted for the European Parliament, Mr&#160;Barroso would have a successful career ahead of him in America, and many outstanding politicians and speakers in this House would triumph over the political scene in my country.
If this House wishes to say that the governments of the Member States play too large a role in this process, it should say so clearly.
If the Commission is to have the support of the Member States, the Member States’ governments must have a major part to play in its appointment, even if this sometimes prolongs the decision-making process.
Many thanks. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much.
Mr Kilroy-Silk has the floor for a point of order. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on a point of order; Mr Barroso showed his disdain for Parliament yesterday by turning up late and not apologising.
Mrs Mussolini has the floor for a point of order. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to raise a point of order.
The President-designate has, in fact, taken a political line in structuring his Commission and, seeing that each Commissioner has already appeared before the appropriate parliamentary committee, the vote should have taken place.
Strictly speaking, the presidency and the Council are not official parties to the discussion that is taking place between Parliament and the new President of the Commission.
I can also respond to Mr Watson’s remark by assuring you that we have, literally, missed not one word of anything that the Members of this House have had to say about this important issue, as I already explained this morning.
As Mr Barroso has already indicated, we will take that responsibility by consulting the new President of the Commission and the other Members of the European Council at the earliest opportunity, in a bid to bring about a speedy solution to this situation.
I should like to repeat what I stated this morning, namely that the European Parliament has, of course, got every right to take its responsibility, determine its position and make its choice.
I expressly repeated this morning that the presidency and the Council had every confidence in Mr Barroso as the incoming President of the Commission, and that is still the case.
It is thus important to know that the present Prodi Commission will be carrying on its duties, so that the European citizen does not lose out as a result of this situation.
I hope to be able to work with you over the next five years.
You should know that I am in favour of a ‘coalition’, if I can put it like that, between all those who are in favour of the European project.
This point is important.
I do not think of institutional relations within the European Union in terms of a victory by Parliament over the Council or of a victory of the Commission over Parliament.
As has been said, and very commendably, we need a strong Parliament and a strong Commission too.
In this connection, I also want to give prominence to the Council, because the Council is the representative of the Member States, and I believe that all those who have been elected by the citizens of the Member States are democrats.
We need this culture of respect between the various institutions in order to strengthen all those in Europe who are in favour of the idea of compromise.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have not talked very much about Europe’s basic problems, but we need broader support in order to make progress towards achieving our priorities in Europe.
For my part, I am, of course, prepared to work with you in a spirit of mutual respect and loyalty, with the European project – that of our citizens – always our main priority. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Barroso.
Mr Barroso needs more time to draw it up and the Council understands this and accepts it, and the Prodi Commission will therefore remain in office until we can debate and vote on a proposal.
I believe you will find elements in them which may help you in the work you have yet to do.
There will not, therefore, be a vote on any issue.
It only remains for me to invite Mr Barroso and the Council to present us with a proposal as soon as possible, without setting any strict time limit, which Parliament can decide upon, and to keep us informed of how their work is progressing in this regard.
The second name in section 2 – 'From Members' – should be Wojciech Wierzejski, not 'Wojciechowski Janusz Czesław'.
The Netherlands presidency is very much looking forward to hosting the forthcoming summit in The Hague on 8 November.
This action plan should be approved at the next Summit in 2005.
This will reflect the ambition to further develop EU-India relations in several key areas, such as cooperation in the UN and other multilateral fora; conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction; cooperation on non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery; the fight against terrorism and organised crime; dialogue on democracy and human rights and EU support for India’s achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.
In addition to 'old' challenges, we also have to address new ones, such as the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, HIV/AIDS and the fight against terrorism.
The EU wants to strengthen the political dialogue with India in this field and on issues relating to weapons of mass destruction.
The International Conference on Population and Development formulated a clear agenda on the fight against AIDS, and in 2001 the UN General Assembly adopted a Declaration of Commitment on AIDS.
The EU will confirm to the Indians our commitment to the fight against terrorism.
At various meetings at both political and official level the EU has expressed its full support and its satisfaction with the steps taken by both countries.
The EU hopes that both sides will continue to engage fully in this process, for instance through consolidation of the Line of Control ceasefire.
We also welcome the agreement of both sides to explore possible options for a peaceful, negotiated settlement of the Jammu and Kashmir issue as part of the wider process of the composite dialogue between both countries.
Of course, Pakistan must continue to make every effort to curb terrorist infiltration across the Line of Control and cross-border terrorism.
But at the same time India needs to take further action to reduce human rights violations.
The EU is ready to express its commitment to the reconstruction and stabilisation of Afghanistan in partnership with the Afghan Government and is counting on India to do the same.
Peace and stability is also needed in Nepal and Sri Lanka.
Economics form an important part of EU-India relations.
The European Union is India’s first partner in terms of trade and actual investment inflows and is in the front rank of its partners in the field of economic cooperation.
The summit will also provide an opportunity to express our commitment to the multilateral trading system and the desire to make progress in the Doha Development Round.
We also want India to participate in Galileo, our global satellite navigation system, and we want to discuss the negotiations on a maritime agreement.
Although the first summit took place only four years ago, the European and Indian cultures go back thousands of years.
It is therefore only natural to stress the cultural dimension of our relationship by the signing of a common declaration on cultural relations.
The relationship covers many areas and it is bound to succeed.
The Summit on 8 November will prove this. &#160;&#160; .
Looking at the state of our relations today, it is clear that they have come a long way since our first summit in Lisbon in June 2000.
In particular, we have deepened and strengthened our dialogue in all areas.
The Commission has set out proposals for doing just that.
The Communication on an EU-India Strategic Partnership identifies the challenges, opportunities and expectations for strengthening our international, economic and development cooperation with India.
The European Union and India could work more effectively together to support multilateralism and the role of the United Nations.
Certainly, the European Union and India should enhance their dialogue on human rights and democracy, bilaterally and internationally.
In areas where the European Union is involved in the peace process and reconstruction, such as Afghanistan and Sri Lanka, dialogue and cooperation with India could be stepped up.
The role of the European Parliament is crucial.
The planned visit of Members of the European Parliament to India early next month is excellent news.
India could become a major economic partner, and much remains to be done to tap the full potential of the European Union and India’s trade and investment relationship.
We should therefore initiate a policy dialogue in important areas of economic management, such as industrial policy, the environment or competition.
Educational exchanges will receive a boost through a scholarship programme in the framework of Erasmus Mundus.
When we hold the next summit in The Hague in early November, we will adopt a declaration on cultural cooperation, hoping to make this area a priority for our future cooperation.
Together with the excellent recommendations of Parliament, all elements are in place for the fifth summit to take the necessary decision to open a new era in our relations and to upgrade the relationship with India to a strategic partnership.
Political leaders are expected to task officials to prepare a detailed action plan and a new political statement for the sixth summit in 2005.
International relations are in turmoil and the Union, which is seeking to consolidate itself institutionally through the approval of the European Constitution, can play a significant and beneficial role in the quest for peace, stability and justice, including ecological justice, on our tormented planet, if we acquire the political will to do so.
I say this at a time when we are about to find out whether, on 2 November, the American superpower will opt for the path of constructive cooperation and respect for the opinions of others, including the international institutions, or whether it will choose the opposite direction.
Nevertheless, the very fact that that possibility is on the table clearly demonstrates not just the need to carry out a reform of the United Nations, but also the essential need to consider the structural injustice that distorts relations between the human beings and peoples of the planet.
The fact that in the twenty-first century it is still necessary to create an alliance against hunger, as several countries have done recently in the headquarters of the United Nations, demonstrates what a disaster the international social organisation we are immersed in is.
For all these reasons, we must take a positive view of the Commission’s communication, proposing the establishment of strategic cooperation as well as positive conclusions from the Council of 11 October.
I believe, therefore, that, in accordance with our respective competences, but always in a coordinated fashion, we three Institutions can and must promote sustainable development and appropriate management of globalisation, encouraging New Delhi to wage a decisive war against poverty, in which I am sure it can count on the cooperation of the Union.
The fact that India is a significant country in terms of certain important technologies, while at the same time 300 million of its inhabitants are living in poverty, is something that is quite frankly difficult to stomach.
Nevertheless, I am convinced that the strategic cooperation proposed, and which will be properly laid out at the bilateral Summit of 8 November, will contribute to finding solutions and to sharing effective multilateralism in international relations. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we fully agree with the statements made by the Commission and the Council, as well as the rapporteur’s report.
We believe that India, which is today the largest multicultural democracy in the world, should be a strategic partner for the European Union in defining new international political alignments to ensure peace and security.
We therefore fully agree with the recommendation that the Council should, at the fifth EU-India Summit on 8 November, identify India as a strategic partner for the Union.
A multilateral approach that also focuses on closer collaboration within the United Nations should be a central objective of the European Union’s foreign policy, with which we are today coming face to face with the approval of the new Constitution.
I am not suggesting any useless external interference but something much simpler, giving as much helpful and welcome support as the European Union can provide based on its own experience in matters of foreign policy.
This can only happen if both sides have a strong will to turn dialogue and statements into a tangible reality.
For a long time, we have treated India differently from other countries in the region, China for example, and so we are glad that, to judge by the journeys undertaken recently, both the European Union and many national governments are giving greater attention to relations with it.
As many previous speakers have pointed out, India is the world’s largest democracy, with a diversity of religions, cultures and ethnicities, whilst being at the same time a rising economic power.
While we welcome the indications that relations between India and Pakistan are bearing fruit in the shape of a potential resolution of the conflict in Kashmir, which gives cause for rejoicing, we also demand and expressly seek the acceleration, as a matter of urgency, of nuclear disarmament across the region, for the sake of the safety of the people who live there.
The rapporteur tells us that we must help Delhi fight against poverty, but would he just tell his own organisation what it is doing to help?
Mr Barroso, as I said at the outset, says that he wants to boost employment in the EU.
This report does just the opposite. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, for reasons of principle, I would prefer the chairman of the Committee on International Trade, Mr Barón Crespo, to speak first, but parliamentary order dictates otherwise.
As you know, the huge population in India creates the preconditions for a broad range and large number of potential consumers of European products.
Indeed, it is in the common interests of the European Union and India to work to promote trade and investment, at both multilateral and bilateral level.
Our trade relations with India are also of importance.
The terrorists that are given shelter in Pakistan are a threat, not only to India, but also to the rest of the world, and thus also to the European Union. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I hope the Commission’s recent communication and today’s debate in this House will usher in a new era of relations between the EU and India.
The Lisbon strategy, commits us to achieving an economy racing along at the crazy speed of the US economy within a space of time that I regard as unrealistic.
Anyone who has lived and worked in those countries and become acquainted with their policies and development plans would agree with me.
It is in our interests to forge links with a country where 50% of the population is under 20 years of age, and where GDP has risen by an average of 7% for the past few years.
The further development of relations between the European Union and India will be of crucial importance to world peace, stability, security and development.
India is a huge democratic country in the region with a history and cultural past.
At the same time, however, it is a country of the future, which is building consistent and stable bases for its economic, social, scientific and technological development.
The European Union and the Member States have every interest in developing a new strategic alliance, a new strategic partnership with India, and this relationship will contribute to the democratisation of the international system, to the necessary global and regional balances, to the creation of a multipolar world, to the defence of peace, democracy and human rights, to the reform of the UN system and to the strengthening of its role in legitimising the peaceful resolution of conflicts.
That is why the European Union must promote educational exchange and research institute programmes and immediately implement the scholarship programmes. &#160;&#160; Mr President, over the past few weeks, and with the EU-India Summit in the offing – it is taking place in The Hague at the beginning of November – the Dutch Human Rights ambassador has declared that the violation of the rights of 260 million outcaste Dalits is an international human rights problem.
Despite democracy and law in the world’s largest democracy, practice is proving somewhat different.
I would call for this problem to be explicitly put on the agenda in our bilateral and multilateral trade talks and in context of the broad EU-India partnership that we have, which has been rightly championed.
That is the platform where it should happen, but it is precisely this kind of international trade problem, linked to a real international legal problem of 260 million people, that calls for a common approach, not only in India but also in other countries.
The presidency can agree with most of the remarks and recommendations in this interesting and good report.
I also fully agree with everyone who said that it is very important to give priority to good relations with this very important country, one which is becoming more important economically, technically and politically.
Mr Menéndez del Valle also mentioned the importance of UN reforms.
Some Members of Parliament – Mr Özdemir and Mr van den Berg – mentioned the important issue of human rights.
As you know, discussing human rights within the United Nations is a sensitive issue; I am sure the European Parliament delegation which visited Kashmir last June noted that too.
Nevertheless, we will discuss the human rights issue, the situation of women and children, and other subjects, at the summit.
We have been consistent in our position that in the fight against terrorism, or any other kind of militant extremism, human rights should also be respected. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr&#160;Nicolaï.
The debate is closed.
During the parliamentary elections of 17 October 2004, very few opposition candidates were allowed to run and none of them were elected to parliament.
The way is now open for President Lukashenko to put up his candidature for the presidential elections in 2006 and be elected for a third time, if not become president for life.
If these presidential elections are conducted the same way as the elections and referendum of 17 October, there is no doubt that he will succeed in this.
These attacks, especially the attack on the life and health of opposition leader Lebedko, seem to have been well targeted and prepared.
So what can the European Union do to further developments in order to bring about a better life for the people of Belarus?
Since 1997, the European Union's relations with Belarus have been at a very low level.
In that year the EU decided not to ratify the partnership and cooperation agreement with Belarus, in view of the abrogation of democracy in 1996.
After the presidential elections of 2001, when Lukashenko was re-elected, the EU decided to continue its strict policy towards the regime, but at the same time to try to continue and – if possible – to expand relations with civil society.
The popular support of President Lukashenko diminishes, and the regime – as a reaction – gets more and more oppressive.
So what can the EU do about it, in terms of both carrots and sticks?
In order to bring about an area of peace, security and prosperity the EU has developed the European Neighbourhood Policy.
If Belarus decides to choose the path of democracy and rule of law, where the population decides on its own economic and political future, the EU is prepared to make Belarus the same offer as other neighbouring countries.
The regime is doing everything to prevent western support to non-governmental organisations.
I am also very happy about the establishment of a separate delegation for Belarus in the European Parliament.
I think that this step also proves to the Belarussians that the EU takes the situation in their country very seriously.
Secondly, what negative measures can the EU take?
Relations are already on a very low level.
The political developments in Belarus are of great concern not only to the EU, but also to others such as the OSCE and the US.
But we will also have to work together with Russia, which seems to be the only country to have some influence over Belarus.
Whilst the Russian government shares our concern about the situation, unfortunately we disagree about the way forward.
It is deplorable that Belarus has not taken the opportunity of the October parliamentary elections to take positive steps towards democratic pluralism.
On the contrary, the parliamentary elections on 17 October fell significantly short of OSCE commitments for democratic elections.
The controversial referendum on the removal of the two-term limit on the office of the president failed to meet international standards.
Since election day, the authorities have turned, in an increasingly harsh and intolerant manner, against those citizens who have challenged the outcome of the elections and referendum in peaceful street demonstrations.
For better or for worse, Belarus is a neighbour country of the European Union, with important historical, cultural and social ties with the enlarged European Union.
We cannot be indifferent to the future of our relations with this or any other country in our immediate neighbourhood.
The European Union has developed a framework to reinforce further the relationship between the enlarged EU and its neighbours, including Belarus: the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP), for which I happen to be responsible, for longer than expected.
We are offering closer cooperation across the spectrum of our relations, from political dialogue to economic integration, on the basis of commitment to common values.
This offer is also valid for Belarus.
Through the ENP, the European Union is ready to reinforce its lasting commitment to supporting democratic development in Belarus.
Under the current conditions, however, there can be no fully-fledged ENP action plan for Belarus.
The October parliamentary elections and the referendum were an important milestone for Belarus under the ENP, but, unfortunately, Belarus failed to meet it.
However, closer relations, including relations in the framework of the ENP, are still a possibility, provided that fundamental reforms are introduced.
In the absence of fundamental reforms, one extremely important question remains: how should the democratic process in Belarus be further encouraged?
At present, a key element in EU policy towards Belarus is support for civil society and the process of democratisation.
People-to-people contacts between Belarus and the EU can be further fostered.
I strongly believe that our new Member States in that region of Europe will help us to achieve our goals.
The Commission intends to use the assistance instruments at its disposal to continue support and assistance to civil society organisations, journalists and independent media, universities and, where appropriate, local authorities.
Secondly, we continue to monitor closely the state of human rights, respect for fundamental freedoms and the rule of law in the country and raise our concerns with the Belarussian Government.
It is more important than ever to continue and develop our efforts to support civil society and democratic forces in Belarus.
Both of these ‘ifs’ are the particularly fragile props, on which we can only imagine Belarus as a bridge between the European Union and Russia.
Since 1997 a Russia-Belarus union has formed, which is expanding in the direction of ever greater state amalgamation.
For instance Mr&#160;Lukashenko appointed General Ushopchik, a man wanted by the Court of Lithuania for the murder of unarmed civilians during the events in Vilnius in 1991, a Vice-Minister in today's Belorussian Government.
It seems that the present situation is useful to Russia.
Not only to the country, but to the regime.
The situation will change when Russia understands that this is not the most useful scenario for Russia either.
This also applied to the campaign preceding the referendum.
The outcome, a turnout of around 90%, 75% of whom voted in favour of the constitutional change, is shrouded in suspicion.
We must also try to help bring about changes for the better in Belarus by supporting the democratic opposition forces in that country.
Finally, I have chaired the observation delegation during parliamentary and presidential elections in Belarus for several times now, and my frustration about the lack of change, despite all efforts on our part, is still very great.
Policy proposed by the Council and Commission receives our unqualified support, but in my view, the key to change lies with Belarus’ other neighbour, not the EU, but Russia.
I should like to urge the Council once again to take a firmer stand in talks with Moscow, for my experience has been only that, as soon as we declare the elections unlawful, a telegram would arrive from President Putin that very same day to congratulate Mr&#160;Lukashenko, for the umpteenth time, on successful elections. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, recent events in Belarus have mainly been observed in terms of the elections taking place in the country.
In the shadow of these elections, however, a referendum was held, aimed at amending the constitution and making it possible for Mr&#160;Lukashenko to remain in power in Belarus for the rest of his life.
It was therefore held without any kind of external checks.
There is therefore ample reason for neither this referendum nor Mr&#160;Lukashenko’s right to run for re-election to the post of president to be recognised, even though no independent observers were present.
Belarus is fast heading towards self-isolation, and is turning into a country that entirely disregards the influence of other countries.
This must be achieved not only through measures in Belarus itself, which could prove difficult, but by taking advantage of the opportunities provided by modern technology, including radio and television.
The latter could convey certain values and attitudes to Belarus, even if the transmitters are located outside Belarus’ borders, as would be the case under the proposals put forward by the United States.
Incidentally, and finally, it might be a good idea for EU actions of this kind to be synchronised and coordinated in some way with the US actions set out in recent decisions by Congress and the President.
There is not really a change in attitude, with a specific concentration on the situation in Belarus and consideration of which measures are feasible in order to support the opposition and civil society in that country.
I believe that we will achieve this not by means of resolutions alone, but also by means of concrete actions, for example by stepping up aid for people in areas affected by the Chernobyl disaster, by helping resolve the issues of migration and border protection, by facilitating greater communication between students and by supporting civil initiatives.
These are all tools which may improve the situation for ordinary people, those for whom democracy is most important, in my opinion. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, there can be no doubt that human rights are violated in Belarus, that basic democratic standards are not respected in that country and that there is discrimination against minorities, primarily the Polish minority.
Furthermore, there can be no doubt that this situation is far from normal, and that it fails to meet our expectations with regard to the standards of a democratic state.
As members of the League of Polish Families, we dispute the European Parliament’s right to interfere in the foreign policy of other countries, as it is not competent to do so.
This House should concern itself with its own affairs instead of judging standards in other countries, especially ones that do not belong to the European Union, as such activities do not lie within its field of competence.
Belarus does not pursue any kind of hostile policy towards other nations and it wishes to open up its foreign policy and cooperate with other countries.
The events have been described to us by the Council, the Commission and individual Members of this House.
Furthermore, it is an unusually vivid example of what could happen to Ukraine if we do not carry out far-reaching reforms of our neighbourhood policy towards the latter.
The history of Belarus since 1996 is an extremely alarming example of what could happen in this region, above all in Ukraine.
Indeed, none of the EU Member States should do so.
Secondly, we must extend the list of people whom we do not wish to see in EU Member States to include members of the Belarussian authorities.
Thirdly, this issue must be raised at summits held between the European Union and Russia.
Russia has recognised the results of the elections, and exercises political patronage over this political experiment in the heart of Europe.
We must have the courage and sufficient funding to set up an independent radio station broadcasting to Belarussians.
The Belarussian intelligentsia is currently stifled in its own country.
We must have sufficient funding to enable these individuals to study throughout Europe and to build a future for their country whenever such an opportunity arises, and whenever Belarus regains its independence.
This will be an investment in our common European future, a future in which I believe deeply.
Many thanks. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, on 17 October, the Belarussian voters went to the polls to vote in a referendum on a change to their constitution and to elect their Members of Parliament.
I was a member of the observation mission sent to monitor the elections, and I saw for myself the way in which they were conducted.
We should draw two very important conclusions from this.
The first conclusion is contained in the resolution I hope this House will adopt with an overwhelming majority of votes.
It has already been said that our policy on Belarus must be reconsidered.
One extremely important principle was referred to in both the Presidency and the Commission statements, namely the principle of support for society.
Our European policy on Belarus should be guided by the principle of supporting society and isolating the authorities, and this principle should remain in place until the authorities become democratic.
Ten days ago in Belarus steps were taken which have distanced the country even more from democratic Europe.
Ties with Russia, where anti-European moods are spreading, and where some of the gains of democracy are being removed, are becoming stronger and this has a certain influence on Minsk.
While supporting the position of the Council, I also believe that in the time left before the 2006 presidential elections it is necessary to adjust in principle EU policy on Belarus, to adapt it to new conditions.
Note that after 17 October, not double, but ten times more resources are needed for the creation of a civil society in Belarus. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the elections and referenda in Belarus were held under acute pressure and intolerable interference, primarily on the part of the United States of America, which put into operation the so-called 'Act of 2004', allegedly for democracy in Belarus.
NATO delegates also suddenly discovered a link between Belarus and international terrorism.
They violate international law and the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of another state.
The allegations both on the part of the European Union and on the part of the United States of America about alleged violations of democratic rights are hypocritical.
Obviously, of course, both the European Union and the United States of America would express their satisfaction if the elections had been held as in Afghanistan, in Iraq, in Kosovo or in Bosnia, which are under occupation, which have been turned into protectorates and in which, of course, in your opinion ... &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, this House has given much attention to Sudan, and rightly so.
We need to make ourselves heard in a loud and firm voice, maybe even shout sometimes.
That is what is required to protect national minorities in Belarus, including the large Polish minority, for example.
After all, we are not talking about a distant African or Asian country where a local tyrant is violating democracy.
We should boycott Mr&#160;Lukashenko, but we should not boycott the Belarussian people, organisations and youth. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on 19 October the European Commission endorsed the conclusions of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe that the elections in Belarus on 17 October fell well short of democratic standards – they were not free and fair – and I fully support the Commission's conclusions.
Our conclusion should be clear: the Russian Parliament has distanced itself from all democratic parliaments in the world and has also proved that the last dictator in Europe has the full backing of the Russian Duma, controlled by political forces closely linked to President Putin.
This is a clear commitment to support those in Belarus who are working towards democracy: students, trade unionists, civic and religious leaders, journalists and all citizens of Belarus claiming freedom for their nation.
This document provides for USD 45 million to be used to strengthen democracy in Belarus.
What then should and could the European Union – and we, the European Parliament in particular – do?
A month ago here in Strasbourg I spoke about the radio for good neighbourhood project for international broadcasting to Belarus.
This aims to renew cross-border broadcasting to Belarus in one radio channel, using the data resources of Radyjo Ratsyya from Belarus and the high-powered broadcasting licence of Radio Baltic Waves from Vilnius, Lithuania.
Unfortunately, the Russian and EU approaches to improving the situation in Belarus differ.
Russia understands EU concern about the human rights situation in general and about more specific issues such as the situation of the media and the closure of the European Humanities University.
However, the Russians think that democratic change can best be promoted by involving Belarus more in the international community.
At this important time, the European Union has four clear messages for the Ukrainian people.
The first message is simple: the EU is following the developments in Ukraine very closely.
However, this does not mean that we always think the same way.
The EU regularly conveys its concerns to the Ukrainian authorities, for example during the recent EU-Ukraine summit, but also during other political dialogue meetings and through our embassies in Kiev.
Many EU Member States will send observers and the ODIHR findings will be a very important reference point for the EU.
As you all know, it is essential to provide all political candidates with equal access to the media.
Only independent and free media coverage of the electoral process can ensure free, fair and transparent elections.
The Ukrainian Government has to ensure this.
As I said, we appreciate the Ukrainian invitation to monitor the election campaign and the elections, but foreign observers alone are not enough.
We have communicated this message to the Ukrainian Government through our Council conclusions and through the declarations of an earlier presidency.
And the Council will remain active, not just during the first round of elections, but also at the possible second round later in November.
We hope that this message will convince the Ukrainian Government to respect democratic norms more strictly.
Free and fair elections and respect of democratic standards are essential if Ukraine really wants a rapprochement with the EU.
The enlargement process has increased the importance of Ukraine to the EU.
Moreover, the knowledge which the new Member States have enables the EU to conduct a more active and effective policy.
The EU has the right instruments to conduct an effective policy towards Ukraine and intensify our relationship.
This action plan is an EU-Ukraine co-production and it will offer concrete objectives for the coming years.
As President Kuchma stated at the last EU-Ukraine Summit, we need to commit ourselves to implementing what should be a plan of action and not merely a plan of intention.
And the EU is committed to working on this in close cooperation with any candidate who wins in free, fair and transparent elections.
Finally, our fourth message: EU-Ukraine cooperation will not always be easy, but it is in our mutual interests that the long-term trend is uphill, not downhill.
If one listens to the comments and opinions of opinion-makers and politicians, both in the EU and in Ukraine, one often gets the impression that the EU-Ukraine relationship is sub-optimal at best.
The single economic area is often quoted as evidence that this is already happening.
Furthermore, the conduct of the upcoming presidential elections could possibly cast a shadow on our relations.
Here lies a task for the Ukrainian Government and its people.
On 14 September the Ukrainian Parliament held a debate on EU-Ukraine relations.
The joint action plan will be testimony of our own desire to enhance the quality of our relationship.
Our message is clear, both on the elections and on the future of EU-Ukraine relations.
This is not, at present, on our agenda, but my staff and I have nonetheless, over the past months, devised a medium-term and concrete perspective for the enlarged European Union’s neighbours – the European Neighbourhood Policy to which Mr Nicolaï has already referred.
Mr Nicolaï has already referred to the many vital and new things that are on offer to Ukraine and to its people through the Neighbourhood Policy.
The European Parliament also, under our Partnership Agreement, has developed its own framework for in-depth dialogue with the Ukrainian Parliament.
It gives me great pleasure that the new chairman of your House’s delegation to Ukraine, Mr Siwiec, is from Poland, one of Ukraine’s immediate neighbours.
I would also like to make it clear to you, though, that we cannot lower our standards for adherence to shared values and democratic principles, on which depends the implementation of our European Neighbourhood Policy action plan for the future – which is a very ambitious one.
It is not acceptable that authorities and other state bodies should interfere in elections at various levels and in all manner of different ways.
There is no doubt that the election represents a crucial test for democracy in Ukraine.
Democratisation in Ukraine is one of the greatest challenges for the Neighbourhood Policy, which aims to build up relations with the countries surrounding the European Union.
The presidential elections on 31 October and the second round a few weeks after that play a central role in those developments.
After all, the declarations that are made at the end of such an election often have a significant impact on relations between the European Union and the relevant country.
We would therefore urge the Ukrainian authorities, in the last days before the first round of those presidential elections, to ensure that all candidates have equal access to the media, to repair what damage can be repaired and to commit to a fair campaign in the second round – which will, of course, be the most important – so that the Ukrainian population can make up their own minds.
Ukraine has expressed a desire for still closer cooperation with the European institutions, and for stronger relations with the European Union.
The second aspect which has recently become apparent, and which could pose a risk, although the risk may have abated somewhat at present, is the large number of electoral constituencies outside Ukraine.
Russia reacts sharply with accusations of interference in the affairs of other countries to any criticism of the way in which the electoral campaign in Belarus and in other countries is conducted, for example, yet in the case at hand it has absolutely no inhibitions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Commissioner Verheugen that, in contrast to the situation in the neighbouring country of Belarus, the presidential elections in Ukraine will involve a genuinely exciting neck-and-neck race between two strong personalities.
Yet, as many other Members of this House have noted before me, we await this weekend and this electoral process with concern, as it is becoming apparent that the campaign is being fought on unfair terms, and with no holds barred.
I concur with the Presidency’s demands and share its regret that local election observers could not be deployed, as during the last elections this proved to be a key factor in ensuring that the public viewed the elections as democratic.
An extremely high turnout has made clear the country’s potential as a democracy , and it is therefore crucial that measures are taken to prevent any undesirable developments, as well as to ensure that these elections are conducted in a genuinely democratic fashion.
There is, however, something both countries have in common, namely Russia’s strategic interest.
We know Russia is interested in maintaining a particular political configuration in Ukraine.
It is important for us to hold talks on issues relating to Ukraine with Russia, a key partner in such matters, and these talks should be placed on the agenda both of meetings held in the framework of the PCA and those held during the EU-Russia summit.
In addition, I should like to make a few comments on Mr&#160;Verheugen’s statement.
It is true that Ukraine does not yet fully meet the criteria of a democratic state, but we know that membership of the EU is the best incentive for it to fulfil these criteria. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Ukraine, a country where presidential elections are shortly to be held, currently has two development routes open to it.
It would be possible for us to monitor the voting closely and also the electoral campaign between the first and second rounds of voting in the presidential elections, as the campaign during this period will be at its most dramatic.
In addition, of course, we need to react.
Secondly, we should be prepared to postpone the adoption of an action plan for Ukraine by the European Union, or more specifically by the Commission.
The fact that the European Commission did not approve the action plan yesterday is to be welcomed, because a victory for Yushchenko would enable us to take more action, to make Ukraine more generous offers and to take measures to support democratic change in the country.
If Yushchenko wins, we must be prepared to free up large amounts of additional funding to support the transformation of Ukraine, and we should send out a clear message now that we are prepared to do so.
It is vital to bear in mind that a strong, democratic and independent Ukraine is essential to the stability of Europe. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Verheugen has given us a good description of events in Ukraine, as he avoided speaking in black and white terms, resorting instead to shades of grey.
We wish to assist Ukrainians to build democracy and respect certain principles.
Speakers in this House have said that a genuine political battle is being fought, and indeed where else is a genuine political battle being fought in this region?
A month before the elections in Ukraine we do not know who will be President.
The existence of any genuine opposition and any genuine alternative at all in Ukraine is an achievement of the past few years.
We should not forget, however, that even the victory of an opposition representative would not mean that relations with the European Union could be scaled down.
It would simply pose new challenges.
We must be patient and consistent in our relations with Ukraine, and for this we also need time. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, when I listen to the comments made by Mr&#160;Verheugen and by representatives of Western Europe on the subject of Ukraine, I have the curious impression that none of you appreciate the reality of the country we are talking about.
After all, your own countries took centuries to do so.
I therefore believe that the European Union cannot afford to act merely as a passive observer of events in this country, a country that lies on the European Union’s eastern border and has a population of 50&#160;million.
Regardless of the outcome of the elections, a clearly defined programme is required.
I hope the European Union will put forward proposals for such a programme.
It is true that the elections will not be fully democratic, but we should not make future aid dependent on elections and election results. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, caught as it is between two newsworthy events – the parliamentary elections in Belarus and the US presidential election – the election in Ukraine is nevertheless no less important for Europe and the whole world, although this neighbouring country is more democratic than Belarus, of course, and less influential than the United States of America.
Thanks to the members of the European Parliament from the new Member States, and their knowledge and experience of these questions, issues connected with Ukraine have been given special attention even in these first few months of Parliament’s work, emphasising the importance of this new European neighbour state as a strategic partner.
The result of this election must be clearly and effectively reflected in the decisions of the European Union, not merely of censure or support, but also with respect to concrete strategic and financial issues.
Currently an action plan is being developed between the European Union and Ukraine within the framework of our new neighbouring country policy.
We all need neighbours who are democratic and free of corruption, so that entrepreneurs can earn greater profits in a freely competitive environment, and our people can sleep more soundly, in the knowledge that Ukraine has not put on the snarling bearskin of its big Russian neighbour. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, is Europe aware of what is happening in Ukraine?
The simple truth is that Ukraine is a state of strategic importance for Western Europe, both from an economic and security point of view and in terms of geopolitical balance in Europe.
I therefore call on this House to ensure that the issue of elections in Ukraine is not passed over by the Member States during the upcoming summit between the European Union and Russia on 11&#160;November.
I would also call for every effort to be made during the next two weeks, which are crucial for Ukraine, to prevent Russia taking any action to strengthen autocratic tendencies in its neighbours.
The basis for our opinion on the process will be the report of the OSCE Election Observation Mission.
The EU provides about half of the observers for this mission.
In any case, the EU will not remain quiet once the first round of the elections has been completed.
Some Members – Mr Tannock and Mr Wiersma – spoke of the possible poisoning of the opposition candidate, Viktor Yushchenko.
I am glad that this afternoon has proven this prediction to be true, even if I do not agree with everything that has been said before this House, in particular by the Polish Members.
This is not the case, and the fact that the country is important to us means that we are extremely active in it.
My answer to this is a definite ‘yes’, I am absolutely sure that a genuinely convincing prospect of EU membership for Ukraine would help.
During talks with President Kuchma I have always deliberately left open the issue of where this policy will ultimately lead, and it has been Ukraine itself which has said that it believes that it will one day lead to the European Union.
If you will forgive my saying so, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have also only been independent for 12 years, and yet we demanded that these three countries meet our political and democratic standards in full.
I do not, however, believe that the comparison made in this House this afternoon between Ukraine and a small child is an appropriate one.
Neither of these actions can be taken in the case of Ukraine, and in both cases the metaphor is inappropriate.
Ukraine is not a small child, it is a thoroughly self-confident, important and adult country, and I believe that we can very well demand of this country that it should also behave like an adult. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am very sorry that I arrived only at the end of the debate about Ukraine, as I had a meeting at the same time with the Parliament delegation for relations with Israel.
It may have escaped me, but I asked the Dutch representative of the Council a pertinent question about the Council’s stance with regard to the Kremlin’s obvious political intervention in these Ukrainian presidential elections.
The Council may have already responded to this question, but should it not have done so, my question still stands.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday.
The session is suspended until Question Time at 6 p.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0017/2004).
The EU’s heads of mission in Belgrade have been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the province with a general overview of the inter-ethnic relations and more information about recent incidents.
In its conclusions about the Western Balkans of 11 October 2004, the General Affairs and External Relations Council is satisfied with the undertaking given by the Serbian Government on 8 September that it will step up the dialogue with all ethnic communities, and the Council was looking forward to this undertaking being honoured.
In the coming months, the Commission will be drafting a feasibility report to find out whether it can advise the Council to open negotiations about a stabilisation and association agreement with Serbia and Montenegro. &#160;&#160; . – I am very pleased that the European Council pays attention to this important question.
As you know, our second report is not ready, but I can tell you that we are closely monitoring the situation.
I would also draw your attention to the Council’s conclusions of 11 October, in which the Council welcomed Serbia’s pledges for a dialogue with all ethnic groups.
However, setting the precondition of cooperating with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia creates the risk not only of a break-up of the federation but also the isolation of Serbia from the European Union despite the country's progress and the recent democratic presidential elections.
At the same time, the Foreign Affairs Ministers decided in favour of enforcing political conditions, including compliance with all international obligations, including those in respect of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, or ICTY.
The European Union would therefore ask all countries of the Western Balkans to cooperate with the ICTY as a token of their willingness to meet their international obligations and respect the principle of rule of law, the latter being one of the cornerstones on which the Union is founded in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union.
The leaders of those countries have promised to cooperate with the ICTY on several occasions, including during the Forum of the Western Balkans on 9 December 2003, which brought the Foreign Affairs Ministers of the European Union and of the region together.
I should like to ask the Dutch Presidency what it intends to do under these circumstances.
The problems are accumulating.
These events took place on the eve of the tragic anniversary of 6 September 1955 when a major pogrom was carried out against the Patriarchate and the Greeks of Istanbul.
The rights of individuals freely to practise their religion and use their own language are, in practice, restricted.
The protection of fundamental rights is a founding principle of the Union and an essential condition of its legitimacy.
In external relations, respect for fundamental rights is a categorical condition of candidate countries' accession to the Union.
In line with that priority, Turkey must create conditions corresponding to those in the EU Member States, so as to ensure that non-Muslim religious communities can function.
The Council is closely following developments with regard to freedom of religion in Turkey against the background of the Copenhagen political criteria for accession.
As the honourable Member knows, the Commission accepted its recommendations concerning Turkey’s progress on the road to accession on 6 October and has recommended opening negotiations with Turkey under certain conditions.
I have two questions.
Essentially, my question is this: the Council representative has already told us that, basically, Turkey does not at present meet the Copenhagen criteria and Mr Verheugen also said as much in one of his replies.
The Commission has indicated – and I agree with what you have said about this – that, where the political criteria are concerned, we still have a long way to go.
What is very important – and it is clearly also important to you, to judge by your questions – is the fact that the Commission notes that once negotiations have started with Turkey, the political criteria will continue to be monitored very closely.
Bearing in mind the Netherlands' long experience in countering floodwater and the problems of being a low-lying country, what long-term help can the Council offer to this important region of the world? &#160;&#160; .
The Council would ask her to approach the Commission, which will be able to provide her with extensive information about the topic, particularly in terms of technical and financial assistance. &#160;&#160; May I thank the Council for its very brief response, though I had been hoping for a little more.
I know that the Netherlands, with its long experience of beating back floodwaters at home, already supports considerable projects in Bangladesh, but I wonder what more can be done in the future.
Some 36 million people have been flooded, which is more than the population of the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Denmark and Ireland put together.
Negotiations with Romania about Chapter 24 are still underway.
The future European agency for external border control that is expected to be operational by 1 May 2005 will draw up, and develop, a common core curriculum for training border patrols and will provide training at European level for instructors for the Member States’ national border patrols.
They include, among other things, political criteria requiring a candidate Member State to possess stable institutions, guaranteeing, as I said a moment ago, democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for, and protection of, minorities.
In December of this year, the European Council will, on the basis of the Commission’s report and recommendations of 6 October 2004, decide whether negotiations with Turkey can be opened.
I think I have already clarified this in a response to the three questions combined. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to ask a question regarding the situation arising following the signing of the draft Constitutional Treaty this month by government representatives.
The Commission will study this very closely and carefully, and, in this respect, if it is decided to open negotiations, those points will continue to be monitored very closely after these negotiations have started. &#160;&#160; I was quite alarmed by the implications of this question and, indeed, by the contribution we heard from the other side of the House.
Nothing could further emphasise the European Union's determination to commit itself to being fully secular in nature than the accession of Turkey, a large country with a large number of Muslim people.
Yes, Turkey presents challenges for the European Union.
I, for one, welcome Turkey's accession to the European Union in the course of time. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said that this issue is dealt with better in Turkey’s legislation than in that of some Member States.
Firstly, I should be interested to know which Member States you have in mind.
Exercises of this type, involving the deployment of national or multinational troops, continue to be the Member States’ exclusive responsibility.
My supplementary question is whether the President-in-Office of the Council believes that, from the Council’s point of view and within the context of cooperation in the common foreign and security policy, we should begin to adopt a position, at least by means of recommendations, with a view to preventing the United States from exporting this pollution to waters close to the European Union. &#160;&#160; .
In Belgium, the Minister for Finance is proposing to stop minting the smallest coins as from next year.
Although, to the best of my knowledge, no Member State is calling for them to be scrapped, will the Dutch Presidency be calling for a clear decision from the European finance ministers or will each Member State be simply allowed to continue to muddle through? &#160;&#160; .
Article 106 of the Treaty clearly defines the respective powers of the European Central Bank and the Member States with regard to the issue of euro notes and coins.
Paragraph 2 specifies that Member States can issue coins on two conditions.
It is up to the Member States to decide, within this framework, on the volume of coins they want to issue at which nominal value, with the European Central Bank’s approval being required for every issue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, thank you.
Nevertheless, in my view – and I think, in the view of the public and of a number of consumer organisations, if in the euro zone and in the different Member States, different positions are taken up as regards whether or not to continue issuing certain small euro cent coins, or whether or not to round up prices, it is then difficult to still talk about a price policy or financial policy in the euro zone.
For years, the Member States’ various competent law enforcement bodies, including police, customs and coast guards, have made every effort to prevent the import of illegal drugs into the territory of the Member States.
It is of the utmost importance for those substances to be prevented from reaching the territory of the Member States.
On 2 June 2004, the Commission published a communication about the reinforcement of police and customs cooperation in the European Union.
The Council’s response is included in the draft of a multi-annual programme for the area of freedom, security and justice, the so-called The Hague programme, which will be adopted by the European Council on 5 November 2004.
Over the course of certainly ten years, the customs authorities in the Member States have organised joint operations every year in order to examine the smuggling of drugs, including Ecstasy, by air, land and sea.
An operation focussing on the smuggling of Ecstasy by air is planned for the near future, and over 20 Member States are set to take part in it. &#160;&#160; I thank the President-in-Office for his reply.
I should also like to ask about the Council's position on LSD and other illegal narcotics.
Those contacts have been made, improvements are being carried out, and the honourable Member was right to mention cooperation with the United States.
This does not detract from the fact that, of course, cooperation within the European Union is first and foremost aimed at the cross-border issue and it is, in fact – at least that is how I understand his comment – also an appeal to national governments to shoulder their responsibilities in this area.
What I can say is that the Dutch Presidency is hoping to take a decision on this subject in December’s European Council.
As well as national and international measures, a broad solution should be found for the debt problem of the developing countries so as to make debts bearable in the long term.
In accordance with the consensus of Monterrey, which was approved by the Heads of State or Government of the members of the United Nations in March 2002, the EU recognises that permanent debt funding is of the essence for freeing up resources for private and public investments, and that the relief of foreign debt can play a crucial role when resources are freed up for activities that promote sustainable growth and development.
Achieving the millennium objectives for development is a core objective of the European Union and, in broader terms, of the international communities.
The commitments into which the EU Member States entered at the Monterrey Conference reflect the Union’s leading role in international efforts to accomplish the millennium objectives and should find expression in the full range of the EU’s policy measures and in its decisions concerning the allocation of financial resources.
In its conclusions of 14 November 2002, the Council confirmed its willingness to, and I quote ‘continue its efforts to restore the sustainability of debts in the context of the strengthened Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative, so that the developing countries, particularly the poorest among them, can continue to pursue growth and development without being hindered by the burden of unsustainable debts’.
During the high-level dialogue on development funding, which was held in New York in October 2003 in the framework of the 58th UN General Assembly, the EU urged all donor and creditor countries which had not done so, to take on their share of bilateral debt relief and to contribute to the multilateral funding of the HIPC initiative.
The EU also emphasised that it is of great importance for the IMF and the World Bank to issue regular reports on whether their Member States meet their HIPC obligations, in particular with regard to Article 4 on control.
According to the EU, HIPC countries, as well as donor and creditor countries, are all responsible for permanent debt relief in the long term.
In my first speech, I did attempt to indicate specifically the Council’s concern and involvement in this, together with the political weight and priority we attach to it, with regard to the very concrete organisation and aspects which the honourable Member mentioned.
For this I would refer to the Commission once again, as indeed he did himself in his more detailed question. &#160;&#160; We are now coming to the end of the scheduled time for Question Time.
I see that there are at least three more Members who are due to ask the next three questions.
I apologise to Mr Newton Dunn, Mr Moraes and Mrs&#160;Malmström, whom I can see are present in this House, but the Council has notified us that they have pressing commitments and cannot stay any longer. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should just like to point out that the clock says it is 6.56 p.m.
Therefore, surely, Question Time cannot be closed? &#160;&#160; As the time allotted to Question Time has elapsed, Question Nos 14 to 33 will be answered in writing(2), except Question No 18, which has been withdrawn by the questioner.
Thank you for your understanding. &#160;&#160; As I said, Question Time is closed, as the Council has to leave. ((1)
