President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is still facing considerable challenges in terms of its response to the changing migration situation.
The Global Approach to Migration, which was adopted by the European Council in December 2005, still forms the basic framework for defining the response to these challenges.
On adopting the Global Approach, the European Council underlined the need for a balanced, global and coherent approach, covering policies to combat illegal immigration and, in cooperation with third countries, harness the benefits of legal migration.
The Global Approach to Migration has not remained static but has been refined and developed by the European Council in light of events and progress made in its implementation.
At its meeting of 21 and 22 June this year, the European Council adopted conclusions on the expansion and reinforcement of the Global Approach.
These conclusions in particular provide for the application of the Global Approach to neighbouring regions to the east and south-east of the EU and for the development of partnerships between the European Union and third countries in terms of circular migration and mobility.
This work was carried out and resulted in the adoption, at the Council meeting of 18 September, of conclusions on reinforcing the management of the EU's southern maritime borders.
The conclusions also highlight the need to strengthen cooperation in this area with third countries of origin and transit, particularly in terms of managing their own borders, assuming their responsibility for search and rescue operations, fighting human trafficking and smuggling, and building an effective framework for returning illegal immigrants.
As regards long-term measures, the Council has invited the Commission to present a report on possible additional measures together with an in-depth analysis of certain proposals made by Malta, a study of the relevant parts of maritime law and a commitment, within the ongoing debate on the Commission's Green Paper on the Common European Asylum System, to the creation of specialist asylum teams.
As you know, Frontex only began operating in October 2005, but in the relatively short time since then it has developed its operational capacity and taken important steps aimed at reinforcing the security of the European Union's external borders by focusing on the fight against illegal immigration.
Various joint operations coordinated by Frontex have been conducted and others are ongoing in the Atlantic and Mediterranean.
Another significant event was the adoption by the Council in July of this year and the entry into force on 20 August of the Regulation establishing a mechanism for the creation of Rapid Border Intervention Teams, known as RABITs.
In terms of legislative measures aimed at illegal immigration, the competent Council bodies have already begun analysing the proposal of for a directive of this Parliament and the Council laying down sanctions against employers of third-country nationals in an irregular situation.
This proposal, aimed at fighting illegal employment as a factor for attracting illegal immigration, was presented by the Commission in May 2007.
Using the codecision procedure in order to rapidly reach agreement, the Council has also given high priority to the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and Council on common standards and procedures in Member States for returning illegally staying third-country nationals.
All these agreements will be finalised once the European Parliament delivers its opinion.
As you know, the Council and the Portuguese Presidency are also prioritising the promotion of legal migration.
A high-level conference dedicated to the issue of legal migration was organised in Lisbon by the Presidency on 13 and 14 September.
The results of this conference will be very important in steering our work over the next few months.
The Council will also shortly start work on proposals for a framework directive on the rights of migrants legally residing in a Member State in order to work and creating a single residence permit, and for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of highly qualified workers, which we hope the Commission will present in the next few weeks.
These two proposals, together with others which will be presented over the next few years, constitute the next steps in the policy plan on legal migration presented by the Commission in January 2006.
The Council has already started analysing the proposed Council directive amending Directive 2003/109/EC in order to extend its scope to beneficiaries of international protection.
On external relations in the area of migration, I must inform you that the Council has actively pursued the implementation of the Global Approach to Migration, as defined by the European Council in its conclusions of December 2005 and 2006.
Your attention is also drawn to the conclusions on the expansion and reinforcement of the Global Approach to Migration, adopted by the Council in June.
In December 2006 the European Council invited the Commission: to make proposals on how to apply the Global Approach to the eastern and south-eastern regions neighbouring the European Union; to propose ways of integrating opportunities for legal migration into the EU's external policies in order to develop a balanced partnership with third countries suited to the specific needs of the labour market in the Member States; to suggest ways and means of facilitating temporary circular migration; and to present detailed proposals on how to better organise and provide information about the various forms of legal movement between the European Union and third countries.
The Commission presented two communications in response to these invitations and, following the adoption of these Commission communications, the Presidency presented draft conclusions to the Council aimed at initiating work on the actions identified by the Commission.
In addition, special attention has also been paid to Africa by pursuing and intensifying the dialogue on migration-related issues that began in 2005 with the African countries.
Priority has also been given to monitoring the Ministerial Conferences on Migration and Development held in Rabat in July 2006 and in Tripoli in November 2006.
The Council is actively working in this area in order to translate the joint programmes agreed at Rabat and Tripoli into concrete measures.
We all remember that, until the Hampton Court summit of October 2005, there were even doubts that Europe could have a common strategy on immigration.
We cannot confine ourselves to governing immigration solely within our territory; we must deal with the underlying causes of immigration, which, even today, is overwhelmingly made up of desperate people fleeing persecution, poverty or war, who have no choice whether to leave their own country or stay there.
That is one of the best ways to combat illegal immigration.
Quite frankly, we must do this in the knowledge that we need non-Community workers, and in the knowledge that we must not scaremonger by bandying about huge figures that could give the wrong kind of impression.
Some observers and even some major newspaper articles have said: 'we are prepared to take in 20 million regular migrants'.
It is one thing to point out an obvious demographic trend: Europe is ageing and the number of European workers will fall as a result of demographic decline; it is another thing to dream up as of now figures that might be the right answer in 50 years' time.
Let us therefore govern all the facets of this phenomenon, beginning with demographic decline in Europe.
The third factor is that immigration cannot be the only means of tackling demographic decline.
The Council representative has referred to these.
What interests us is making Europe more attractive than competitors such as the United States, Canada and Australia, which attract 95% of highly skilled non-European workers - those from African and Asian countries - when Europe as a whole is only capable of attracting 5%.
The idea of a European 'Blue Card' work permit is this: a highly skilled worker needed in a certain country obtains, after a certain period of time, the right to move to another European Union country - where he has a job, of course - without any complicated formalities or procedures.
There should in principle be no split between residence and work, and this type of document must be transparent.
The proposal to be put by the Commission to the Council and Parliament will of course leave it up to Member States to go beyond the existing level if, for example, some national systems are already more favourable.
Cooperation with certain countries in sub-Saharan Africa has already begun, for example, specifically in order to assess how best to handle the most highly skilled workers who work in Europe for a while and then go back home, where they can be employed and deployed for the benefit of their country of origin.
Every country is different from the next one, and we cannot govern the flow of migration from Mali in the same way as that from Senegal.
Finally, illegal immigration also forms part of our political strategy.
This summer alone it saved more than 1 200 people who would otherwise have perished, as have so many others, and we owe a debt of gratitude to the crews of the vessels, aircraft and helicopters engaged in Frontex missions.
It is therefore a good thing that Europe realises it has an excellent opportunity to be a player on the world stage in this sphere as in others.
rapporteur. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, immigration is neither an emergency nor a passing phenomenon.
These are two sides of the same coin, and that is why Javier Moreno Sánchez and I have decided to present our reports together.
Eurostat's figures are perfectly plain: in 2050 a third of the 490 million Europeans will be aged over 65.
The Commission's 2005 action plan was an important step forward because it set out practical proposals for opening up legal migration channels in a uniform manner at EU level.
Of the five directives that you are to propose in the forthcoming months, Commissioner Frattini, our priority is the one guaranteeing a common framework of rights for migrants.
That is one reason why we need to switch to codecision and abolish the right of veto in the Council.
This phenomenon needs to be addressed without demagogy, without populism and without taboos.
Both groups, as you know, play a key part in the integration process.
Concerning the directive on highly skilled workers, the so-called Blue Card may well be an excellent means of attracting professionals whom Europe very much needs.
We should in any event like to know a little more about this Blue Card, Commissioner, given that today - as you have recalled - only 5% of immigrant workers are highly skilled, as opposed to 95% who are unskilled.
Immigration is a necessity, and if handled judiciously it can be an asset for a civil society that is respectful of difference. (Applause) rapporteur. - (ES) Madam President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mrs Gruber, ladies and gentlemen, imagining the future of Europe and of our societies with no immigration in the age of globalisation is a departure from reality.
Managing and controlling these illegal migratory flows surpass the capacity for individual action by the Member States, and there can be no doubt that this is the most delicate aspect of the common general immigration policy that must be developed by the European Union.
Illegal immigrants have had to seek out other routes, as has been observed recently in Spain and Italy.
We must make immigration a factor of development in the countries of origin and the host countries, and ensure that we use codevelopment to jointly tackle the deeper causes of illegal immigration.
Let us act to eliminate this necessity and transform it into a personal choice. (Applause) draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Development. - (EL) Madam President, first of all I would like to congratulate Lilli Gruber and Javier Moreno Sánchez on the excellent work that they have done and the cooperation we have enjoyed together in drawing up the two reports.
The settled position of the EU Commission is for a genuine common immigration policy to be adopted by the 27 Member States.
Immigration is indissolubly linked with development and, given the demographic problem faced by the EU today, legal immigration is now a part of the solution to many of Europe's problems, instead of being just one more problem.
Finally, I wish to draw attention to the importance and responsibility of the media when broadcasting information in both the countries of origin and the host countries, in order to prevent a biased view of the migration phenomenon.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. - (EL) Madam President, the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality regrets the fact that both in the communication on the draft strategy for legal migration and in the text which we are asked to vote on today very little reference has been made to the problem of the equality of women.
We therefore call on the Commission, the Member States and the various groupings of the Council with responsibilities in this area to step up their efforts.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner Frattini, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the question of immigration is a political issue of special significance because it often involves human drama.
Between 10 and 15 million people are currently residing illegally in our territory.
The European Union must organise the return of illegal immigrants in a way that maintains the strictest respect for human rights and human dignity.
As regards the current situation with legal immigration, our Group believes that the commitment displayed by the country of origin to control illegal immigration should be made a condition for our negotiations with third countries.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to thank both of the rapporteurs for their work, which has been valuable and absolutely to the point.
Commissioner Frattini said that Europe has a part to play; we agree.
On illegal immigration, I would like to say that a principle of solidarity must be established among Member States, provided that it applies to all Member States and not just those bordering the Mediterranean.
Finally, Madam President, respect for human rights remains a necessary point of reference for our policies.
The process of European integration will be strong and meaningful only if we can prevent Europe from closing its doors to immigrants.
Fact number one: over the next 20 years, Europe will lose 20 million workers - workers who staff our service industries and whose taxes fund services for our citizens.
Fact number two: national governments are deterring the people Europe needs if we are to compete - indeed, to survive - in a cut-throat global market.
Migration will not go away: it is driven by the heady cocktail of despair and hope, it follows the law of supply and demand, but it has the capacity, if properly managed, to enrich and energise Europe. (Applause) on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are already various Directives on legal migration and others are to be proposed, but the real unresolved problem is still that of preventing illegal and uncontrolled immigration, as well as unambiguously defining and ensuring respect for the laws and rules in effect in EU countries: this is a vital pre-requisite for civil coexistence.
In February 2004 I was draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Frontex, which came into being in 2004 and has been operational since 2005 but still lacks sufficient resources.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission, the Council and our two rapporteurs for recognising the complexity of the issues at long last and the need for a coherent approach.
If we are concerned about the brain drain, we also need to look at retention measures for our own skilled workers.
And if we are going to attract the highly skilled, it is not just a question of free movement; it is also a question of tackling racism and xenophobia, which also deter many highly skilled people from coming to the European Union. (Applause) on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Frattini has spoken to us today first about legal migration and then about irregular immigration.
Therefore, we can all agree that a policy on legal migration is crucial in order to combat irregular immigration, to prevent human trafficking, to avoid sea crossings by the hopeful, and to stop the Mediterranean increasingly becoming an open-air graveyard.
In actual fact, the forecast of 20 million immigrants by 2030 has been made by the European Commission itself in its Green Paper, which explained that the demographic crisis in the European Union is such that we will need 20 million immigrants by 2030.
However, 20 million immigrants does not mean 20 million skilled immigrants.
I believe that we should take a closer look at the policies implemented in recent years and analyse them.
To consider 18 months of administrative detention is in itself, I believe, an offence and a systematic violation of human rights.
Promoting and regulating legal migration is the only feasible solution, not only to combat the criminal behaviour connected with migration flows but also to protect and guarantee human rights.
Now that Frontex has been launched, it must receive adequate resources and involve other neighbouring countries affected by migration flows as actively as possible. - (ES) Yes, Mr President.
Sorry, I was having some problems with the interpreting, and also, if you will allow me a few seconds, I merely wish to say that ... (The speaker spoke in Basque) I apologise: I merely wished to add a few words in Euskera on the European Day of Languages since, as has already been mentioned in this debate, we are not criminals; we only wish to speak our own language. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to pay tribute to Vice-President Frattini and thank him for having presented an action plan that at last provides us with a significant basis on which to debate and address legal migration in the future.
The key points of the position our Group has always taken on the phenomenon of immigration have been confirmed.
Among these specific points I would recall our commitment to firm, decisive measures to combat illegal immigration, support for a stronger link between legal and illegal immigration, and the search for more mechanisms for dialogue and integration for immigrants.
I also feel that the Council is acting in a schizophrenic manner when it requests more assistance for Frontex and cuts back the budget by 2.5% at the same time, against a backdrop of credits already exhausted for the year 2007.
The countries of the European Union do indeed bear a historical responsibility towards those who are now travelling in the opposite direction.
The migration debate is completely polarised in many Member States.
That, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, would be the right signal. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President Doyle warns us about the risks of simplistic solutions.
The same applies to some decisions taken by the judiciary, for instance in Italy where houses rented out to illegal immigrants are starting to be seized.
This report also states that: 'The European Council's proposals will probably increase human costs because of the intensified security and surveillance orientation.' (NL) Mr President, I would very much like to hear a response to this from the Commission and the Council.
A new approach is needed. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the latest figures given in the annual report on the activities of Eurodac for 2006, which is the biometric tool that Europe uses for monitoring asylum seekers, show that the number of persons who illegally crossed one of the EU borders has increased by 64% since 2005.
It must annul these, and quickly. (SK) The European Union has extensive legislation on migration policy.
Since time is limited, I will stick to the question of children who are not accompanied by their parents and who leave their country of origin to seek asylum in another country: 5% of all asylum seekers are made up precisely of children.
We have statistics on how many of those children have applied for asylum but we do not know how many of them cross the border and do not apply for asylum.
We should of course look into the possibility of introducing a European Blue Card: this would allow migrants to move freely between Europe and their country of origin and to do so transparently and in safety.
I would just repeat that this is absolutely essential if we are to adopt a coherent European policy in this area. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, at last we are able together to discuss the subjects of illegal immigration and immigration that is referred to as legal: these are two sides of the same coin without which no country today can really claim to have a successful immigration policy.
By the same token, as external borders will henceforth be shared by all the countries of the Union we cannot expect those Member States located in the south and east of the EU to have to face, alone and helpless, the massive influx of migrants of the kind we are now witnessing in Malta, the Canaries and Lampedusa, in the eastern parts of the Union and even in the north west.
This is why I would again stress that for our policy on legal immigration and integration, as set by the mandate of the Intergovernmental Conference, we need to apply the principles of qualified majority voting and codecision with the European Parliament.
Yes, many people have left Latvia to work legally in these sectors in various EU countries, and citizens from non-EU countries are filling these jobs in our country both legally and illegally.
As the Commissioner responsible for justice, freedom and security, ensuring respect for human rights ought to be your main concern - as it is ours - and your powers in this area are very great indeed, in fact as we all know they are immense.
Immigration by job seekers is a double injustice: it robs the country of origin of the skills that it has paid for, while in the host country it drags the labour market down and takes job opportunities from the locally unemployed.
The fact that the United Kingdom cannot now rectify the grave miscalculation which it made in 2004, with its open-door policy to Eastern Europe, is a telling indication of just how much sovereignty we in the United Kingdom have conceded to belong to this club.
How foolish we would be to do so. (HU) Ladies and gentlemen, the shortcomings of European immigration policy and the difficulties experienced so far surrounding joint action have now succeeded in undermining support within society for shared values such as the free movement of citizens within the European Union.
We have opened our internal borders, but we do not yet have a common policy on immigration.
Third: we must take resolute action against illegal immigration.
Fourth: rules on illegal immigration must be reinforced and made more transparent - I am sorry, I meant to say rules on legal immigration - taking greater account of the types of labour needed in our countries.
The money they sent home supported our economies.
There are no proposals in them which differ substantially from the measures and policies proposed by the Council and the Commission.
Frontex, for which more allocations are being sought, is not just a mechanism for policing our borders; it can also be used as a platform for the control of non-EU countries bordering the EU.
At the same time, nor is the creation of a framework of specifications for legal immigration a way to combat illegal immigration.
It is therefore our duty to promote policies which take this approach, and this approach alone. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have spoken a great deal about migrants today.
I would now like to focus attention for a moment on what our citizens are asking us.
Circular migration - in other words, these guest workers' return home - has not worked in these countries so far.
I would like to thank our two rapporteurs, who have submitted a good report.
Last July Frontex's mission in the Mediterranean led to the number of immigrants arriving in my country, Malta, being decreased by half when compared to July of the year before.
Everyone agrees that the first priority should be to save the lives of people who are drowning in the Mediterranean.
However, when we ask, as Malta did, who will welcome the people that are saved from drowning, there is a profound silence. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that it has finally been recognised that it is not just about joint efforts to combat illegal migration but that comprehensive strategies are also required to manage and coordinate legal migration on a joint basis, especially in a Europe without borders.
The solidarity which is always demanded must apply to all EU countries, not just to a few, and the refugees must, in my view, be allocated among all the Member States according to a formula, which has yet to be decided.
Since the beginning of the year, 11 000 immigrants have reached the Canary Islands alone, and 9 000 of these since implementation of the Hera mission on 23 April.
The EU as a whole must support and encourage cooperation agreements and information campaigns, not only on a linguistic and professional basis; the countries of origin and transit must also be made aware of the risks taken by immigrants and of their deaths.
We must also encourage a generous and humanitarian asylum policy, and the necessary international protection.
Therefore, the Council must encourage 20% solidarity, and refrain from using double-speak in a policy that affects the entire European Union. (SV) Mr President, let me begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their very good work.
This affects not only the individuals concerned, but also social insurance and finance systems, and competition in the countries in question.
Voting for Amendment 29 offers a new chance to support women and children so that they can remain in the EU or to help them return.
It is estimated that there are currently around 26 million migrants in the European Union, here both legally and illegally.
Migration is a phenomenon which clearly has a European dimension, not only because each Member State per se cannot manage this effectively, but particularly because any change to the migration policy of one Member State can impact on the migration flows and their development in other Member States.
Mr Vice-President of the Commission, I obviously support the idea of the Blue Card and also the creation of a European immigration portal providing information, on a large scale, on the conditions and options for legal migration in the European Union.
Cooperation with the countries of origin is essential in the fight against human trafficking and illegal employment.
Almost three million of my compatriots have left Poland in recent years.
That is why Union policy on legal migration is such an important issue.
That type of legal migration therefore has double added value. - (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Mediterranean is the world's most unequal border.
And, like other speakers, I would particularly like to focus the House's attention on the Frontex system, where we have recently released a further EUR 12 million to this organisation.
A one-size-fits-all approach cannot solve the problems of immigration, and we must not fall into the trap of thinking that 'more Europe' is the solution. - (MT) Mr President, it is true that in the past months the continuous commitment of Commissioner Frattini together with the priority that is being given by the Portuguese Presidency is producing some results, notwithstanding the formidable bureaucracy and the tangible lack of solidarity in some aspects, which delayed the efficacy of a number of initiatives.
However, this tragic issue deserves a common European policy that urgently addresses fundamental 'issues', including: the adoption of 'burden-sharing' policies between all the Member States, the revision of Dublin II as proposed in paragraph 18 of the Sánchez report, adequate financial support or support of another kind, including capital provision for infrastructure projects, as well as an assessment of the viability, or otherwise, of developing centres such as job centres in countries of origin and transit, the development of a realistic return policy, the implementation of timely integration policy and the fight against organised crime involving trafficking in people, as well as xenophobia and racism.
Unfortunately we do not have a European agency based in the Mediterranean to develop this common policy on immigration and asylum.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank the two rapporteurs who showed us in concrete terms how backward the Union is in this respect.
Another example is managing legal immigration through the Blue Card system or through cooperative agreements with the countries of origin.
I also welcome today's repeated appeal by Commissioner Frattini to those countries of the European Union that have not yet opened up their labour markets to their fellow citizens from the new Member States to do so as soon as possible.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief.
Fortunately, we believe that there is an increasingly apparent awareness of the need to bring together these two concepts - humanity and solidarity - when defining and implementing European migration policies.
We have stepped up dialogue in this area with Africa and we hope that at the next Europe-Africa summit very important results may be achieved, and ultimately legal migration, in the context of migration and dialogue on migration with the countries of origin.
The Commission has also been active in this area and has tabled proposals we regard as very interesting.
As you know, the Reform Treaty has its roots in a mandate that was approved by the European Council and therefore by all the Member States.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too am grateful to everyone who has spoken in this extremely important debate.
I believe that Europe must be truly united in its approach to this global phenomenon which involves millions of children, women and men and affects all continents.
I therefore hope that this House will recognise the need to give Frontex additional resources in the 2008 budget.
The detailed proposal I shall make about a European work permit certainly does not mean that we will decide in Brussels how many immigrants are needed in each country.
However, ladies and gentlemen, one thing Member States will not be able to do is to say 'we do not need any at all' and then carry on tolerating illegal immigration and the exploitation of undeclared employment.
Such things are not acceptable because we have our laws and our universal values.
This, then, means education, it means language-learning, it means vocational training, and it means regular employment and the rejection of anything unlawful.
I grew up under a political system in which certain terms were deemed to be a priori positive or negative by those in power and their propaganda.
Since xenophobia is bad, one can hardly consider that it is a very good thing for a country or the European Union to protect itself against illegal immigration.
in writing. - (HU) Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, 85% of unskilled immigrants from the developing world live in the European Union and only 5% go the USA, while a mere 5% of highly skilled immigrants arrive in the countries of the old continent, and more than half are snatched up by the US economy.
Instead of the EU green card proposed in the report, I believe the new blue card scheme is more likely to succeed in achieving what we hope for concerning legal immigration.
