Commission annual legislative and work programme for 2003 The next item is the Commission statement on the annual legislative and work programme for 2003.
In line with our agreement of last January, the main EU institutions have set up a structured political dialogue.
I would emphasise that the Commission sets much store by Parliament's valuable contribution to this process.
First, this Work Programme must be seen as a big step towards a more highly integrated and coherent planning process for the EU as a whole.
This will allow Parliament to take part too in planning this vital aspect of legislative work.
The Commission hopes that the three main institutions can reach an agreement on the interinstitutional dimension of this planning process by the end of the year.
Secondly, our new working method is not based solely on interinstitutional dialogue but also on a constant exchange of information during the operational phase and on more transparency for the public.
President, Better coordination between the institutions, enhanced planning of legislative work and more information for the public are tangible proof of our determination to make the EU institutions more efficient and to give them a sounder democratic basis.
These are not just technical innovations, but a vital step forward in the development of our integration project.
These priorities have already been endorsed by the Council and this Assembly.
The Commission's two other priorities for 2003 have a close link with enlargement.
Harmony can only be achieved by balancing the fight against terrorism and crime with full respect for the freedoms and rights that are fundamental to our political and social model.
We also need to consolidate our policies on migration flows, asylum rights and the integration of immigrants who come in legally.
Each day I am more and more convinced that we need to develop a comprehensive strategy vis-à-vis the countries on the borders of the enlarged EU, stretching from Russia to the Mediterranean.
We must not see our borders as a wall.
At the same time, we must press ahead with our political project for Europe.
The third major priority for the coming year is economic policy.
Let us not forget that we must meet our objectives of sustainable economic prosperity and social inclusion.
This will usher in a more flexible approach that can draw all our procedures together within a single coordination cycle.
I am thinking of services and particularly of financial services. 2003 is also the deadline we have set for the completion of the internal market for risk capital and securities.
Innovation and investment in human resources and technology will feature high in the Commission's Spring Report next year.
The European integration project is viewed by all as the sole example of democratic management of globalisation.
Both there and elsewhere, the Commission will ensure that the commitments entered into at Kyoto, Monterrey and Johannesburg are made good.
This development of our philosophy and approach was endorsed and given impetus by the conclusions of the Seville European Council last June.
From 2004 on, the method will be fully operational.
Honourable Members, This Work Programme seeks to bring more continuity and coherence to our political action through ever-closer cooperation between Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
We are all aware of this, and yet 2003 will be quite special.
I should like to thank Minister Haarder for being here.
This is the first time that the Council has actually been present for the presentation of the legislative programme.
For the first time, Parliament, the Council and the Commission have engaged in a constructive dialogue to establish a legislative programme.
We are particularly in favour of this cooperation and especially of increasing initial discussions between Parliament and the Commission.
Although this dialogue did indeed take place last spring, however, it was difficult to differentiate between this specific legislative planning exercise and what are known as regular meetings which take place throughout the year between parliamentary committees and commissioners in their respective fields of competence.
The single document 'Annual Policy Strategy for 2003' presented by the Commission in February proved insufficient, and this situation could -appear harmful, as 2003 is a particularly important year due to enlargement.
Having said this, we welcome the three political priorities set by the Commission and we would like to make the following comments: On the first point, entitled 'An enlarged Europe', our primary concern is to ensure that the Community acquis is properly applied throughout the enlarged Union.
It is therefore crucial for a codified version of Community law to be available in all the languages of the new Member States.
Successful enlargement means including the environmental aspect and the objective of public health and consumer protection in all the other policies, as well as taking account - as you said yourself - of human resources, and it also means being innovative.
Lastly, it means monitoring the application of Community legislation, and we will need to help the future Member States to establish suitable structures as swiftly as possible.
With regard to the second point, entitled 'Stability and security', the terrorist threat hangs over the Union.
We therefore welcome the measures proposed in order to combat this scourge.
With regard, more particularly, to establishing a European Public Prosecutor, we believe it is appropriate to await the Convention's conclusions on the subject before taking any initiatives.
Ensuring stability and security within the Union also means defining and setting up an integrated border-control system and taking coordinated practical action to combat illegal immigration.
We would also ask the Commission to present proposals in the near future on asylum and immigration policy that clearly distinguish between asylum seekers, those requesting international protection and migrant workers.
On this subject, our group is still concerned about what we perceive as a lack of resolve within the Council.
The European Union's fiscal policy must, in all cases, be aimed at reducing general taxation and lowering administrative costs.
Economic development is also achieved through strengthening infrastructures, in particular in the field of transport.
We would also, following the ruling of the Court of Justice of 5 November 2002, which found eight Member States guilty of concluding 'open sky' agreements with the United States, call for the European Commission to present a communication on drawing up future bilateral agreements in the field of air transport as swiftly as possible.
With regard to the Union's foreign policy, we would ask the Commission to publish a Green Paper on the new borders of the enlarged European Union, supplemented by ideas on relations with the new neighbouring States and the various partners.
It is regrettable that the Commission legislative programme makes no reference to either the creation of a Euromed free trade area, or the creation of a Euromed parliamentary assembly.
Lastly, trans-Atlantic dialogue must be strengthened in a spirit of sustainable and inclusive development and must of course make good the Kyoto commitments.
In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is important to begin to reform employee status, make OLAF more independent and publish declarations of the financial interests of commissioners and directors-general on the Internet.
And, apart from holding discussions - the final phase of the negotiations is yet to take place - there are certain issues which we should remember.
We must debate this issue not only with the Commission, but also with our friends and, I hope very soon, neighbours, in the candidate countries.
Secondly, with regard to the economic issue, which is absolutely central, we can see that the spirit of Lisbon and Gothenburg are still alive within the Commission.
We welcome the fact - and in particular I am referring to the Members on the Right of the House - that you defend the role of legal immigration in relation to our welfare societies and our demographic future, but, in any event - and I am addressing the Council - I believe it would be very positive if there were a more active approach.
With regard to the debate on the borders of Europe, you have spoken of the spirit and soul - I believe in lay terms - for all Europeans.
Secondly, we are going to vote on a resolution - I believe with a large majority in this House - relating to freedom of expression and media concentration.
Finally, and I will end here, Mr President, there is an issue which worries us very much: the agreements of the General Affairs Council last Monday.
We have noted, from what we have been told and from leaks, that the President of the Commission is concerned to find a final date for the mandate of this Commission.
We are opposed to the General Affairs Council, without having debated the issue with Parliament and without you having presented it, taking a unilateral decision containing many elements which clearly clash with the Treaties.
Mr President, the ELDR Group has always been quite critical in the past of the somewhat incoherent and arbitrary nature of previous annual programmes.
The concern we have is that, even in this improved document, the three priorities are so broad and open-ended that they do not really represent any meaningful political choice.
The annex covering the actions undertaken under the three priorities run to around 40 pages.
More worryingly, the annex covering the issues which fall outside the priorities runs to 50 pages.
In other words, we are faced with the prospect that the majority of the initiatives undertaken on the basis of this annual programme next year will actually fall outside the political orientation set in the annual programme altogether.
The second point is the level of detail provided for each proposed legislative action.
It is still not sufficient and I would like to draw the Commission's attention to the fact that in the Convention there are proposals being floated to involve national parliaments in this debate in future.
Firstly, we do not feel that in the long run the Commission can be judge and jury on its own impact assessments - assessing its own draft proposals.
Secondly, there is little point in the Commission conducting its impact assessments if parliamentary and Council amendments then escape impact assessments altogether.
Therefore we would like to see an interinstitutional approach which applies impact assessments at all points of the legislative cycle.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, the three political priorities of your programme can only be assessed in light of the challenges faced by the European Union.
The Commission, on the other hand, in accordance with the Barcelona and Lisbon European Councils, is pursuing and speeding up the liberalisation and deregulation process leading to privatisation in the energy, transport, postal and other sectors.
On the other hand, the road to equal rights could lead to a safe, inclusive European Union.
By equal rights, I mean economic, social and political rights equally: granting foreign residents the right to vote as of the next European elections in 2004, as Commissioner Vitorino advocated before one of the Convention's working groups, would send a strong signal in this regard for a generous, fraternal Europe that is open to the world.
Lastly, Mr Prodi, you spoke of the great hopes that exist in the South.
I share this ambition for the European Union to play a new role in the world, to prevent conflicts, to encourage peace and genuine security.
However, we feel that the European Parliament must be involved in the debate on what the Commission is going to do and say in Cancún.
We really do not want a repeat of the absolutely disgraceful situation at Johannesburg, where we were faced with a fait accompli, an agreement already concluded between the Commission - or perhaps the Commissioner responsible, for that mystery has yet to be cleared up - and the United States, that WTO rules should take precedence over international agreements in environmental matters.
This venture was partly foiled at Johannesburg, but we genuinely fear that something similar might happen at Cancún, without any public debate and going completely against the endeavours the Commission itself is making in the area of the environment.
As regards the external dimension of sustainable development, I would also point out that, although it is true that impact and sustainability assessments are now necessary for all international agreements - and this is a positive innovation which we very much welcome and with which we are very satisfied - it is also true that it is difficult to realise this undertaking, not least because of a certain lack of resources, as is shown by the work carried out on the agreement with Chile, work which was, I regret to say, inaccurate and rushed.
We are looking forward with great interest, Mr President, to the Commission's Green Paper on services of general interest, and it is our genuine hope that it will be possible to discuss it here in Parliament too, Chairman Barón Crespo.
Moreover, we hope that it will be possible to produce a directive on the matter as well, not least in that we fear that there might be some inconsistency - as I said just now - between what the Commission says and does in the Union and what it then proceeds to negotiate at international level, particularly within the WTO, which is now extremely powerful.
In addition, in this International Year of Mountains, President Prodi, knowing your passion for mountains, we would like to know what measures the Commission intends to adopt for the practical implementation of the Alps Convention, particularly the protocol on transport.
Another environmental issue which we feel needs attention but which I am afraid is no longer part of the programme is PVC, a material which is recognised to be highly dangerous by at least five Commission ongoing studies.
We were expecting a communication before the end of the summer but it appears that, after Commissioner Liikanen announced his position, all the work was stopped.
I am citing this example, although it may seem a minor issue, because, although it is true that we are working constructively to improve the legislative programme, it is also true that our discussions do not serve much purpose if we then lose sight of major legislative proposals, firmly supported by Parliament, which appear as part of the programme for years and then suddenly disappear.
I will end, Mr President, by expressing our deep concern at the influence of industrial lobbies on the Commission's choice of legislative instrument, which may even not be a proper legislative instrument, and I would also point out that this issue is a very specific part of the interinstitutional agreement which, together with other Members of Parliament, we are trying to conclude before the Copenhagen European Council.
Mr President, President of the Commission, I would like to start by apologising to President Prodi for the improvised nature of this speech, which will be a series of brief reflections on what I have read or heard.
Therefore, if I may, I would like to call upon the Commission and the Community institutions in general to reflect either formally or informally on a number of policies which I believe are of vital importance for the future of Europe, particularly for the future of an enlarged Europe which is genuinely united as regards its fundamental principles.
I often reflect - and I still do not know the answer - on the problem of integrating immigrants into society, and I sometimes wonder whether integration is not another, new form of oppression of cultures which are different from ours and should therefore be fully respected.
One of the speakers mentioned the subject of an interesting debate just now, which took place both in Florence and in my own town, Lecce, a town where we have to have no fear of dialogue or the presence of people who do not think in the same way as we do.
We must reflect still more - I reiterate - on the way we may, to some extent, be oppressing immigrant or emigrant peoples which, I imagine, would like to return to their homelands and regain their identities and their cultural roots, but which certainly do not want to go back to economic poverty.
With regard to this, therefore, I would like to draw the attention of the Commission to the issues of immigration and employment, in order to avoid employment, rather than being a uniting factor, becoming grounds for fresh dispute between the immigrants in our States and those who need to convert their business activities.
The European Commission's three main priorities are a logical choice for its work programme for 2003.
Likewise stability and security as a second priority receive my unqualified support.
Fighting terrorism, management of the new external borders and control of illegal immigration are very important for both the current and the enlarged Union.
In Annex 2 however I see that the main focus of attention is on completion of the internal market.
It may also well be that over the next few years we shall no longer be able to develop more far-reaching legislation in a Union of 25 members.
I know that work on this review has been going on for years, but reaching agreement internally is impossible.
Mr President, the Commission work programme for 2003 is better presented than in the past.
Naturally, we have no doubt that, in practice, dialogue within the institutional triangle will make it possible to iron out this problem.
The first priority of the Commission programme is essentially to prepare for enlargement.
Having listened to the representatives of these countries yesterday, having heard their reactions, we can clearly see that these countries are keen to enter the Union.
The programme's second priority is entitled 'Stability and security' and this presents in particular measures relating to immigration.
Having read the list of key initiatives several times, I must say that I did find the initiative concerning integration of legal immigrants, but I am still looking for the initiative that was supposed to cover repatriation of illegal immigrants.
If it is there, it is well hidden.
I am going to meet him this afternoon, and I feel this is important precisely because I believe that we need powerful, direct dialogue on these matters.
My response has been simple: the demands of history have led us to take that road, but it is our intention, firstly, to strengthen the Barcelona policy, with whose development we are still encountering major problems, and secondly, to define the new policy which I have outlined - the ring of friends sharing everything except institutions with the Union - which, this is the point, I hope the Greek and Italian Presidencies will help to boost next year, given that we are going to have two consecutive Mediterranean presidencies in the same year.
The Mediterranean policy will require us to take decisions affecting the budget and our whole way of working.
Mr Barón Crespo, first of all, the proposal on the Commission's programme is usually determined by the relationship between the Commission and Parliament, which is extremely delicate.
I would point out that the Commission's programme for 2003 focuses on new initiatives whereas the Council's programme, with very few exceptions, deals with initiatives which have already been presented by the Commission but which have not been adopted.
Of course, the Commission fully supports the European Parliament - we have been consistent in our support - ensuring that the Council involves Parliament on all the points of its programme.
Moreover, the Commission defines the political priorities for the Council, and it has already presented them to the General Affairs Council of 18 November.
The Commission has constantly drawn the presidency's attention to the need to find solutions which will not upset the smooth functioning of the institutions.
As I see it, these decisions are highly necessary, but we are short of time because solutions have to be found before Copenhagen.
I am not ashamed to say that the countries of the Developing World, the African countries particularly in this case - indeed, Africa is the real major problem - are tending to make less and less of a distinction between Europe, the United States and other countries.
Despite the fact that, in recent years, we have been acting in a genuinely responsible manner - consider Kyoto, the Everything but Arms initiative, incisive decisions opening up our markets unilaterally, incisive decisions regarding the Kyoto Protocol, incisive decisions on many aspects of development aid, for example in Monterrey, where it was we who obtained the minimum that could be obtained as regards foreign aid, even though it really was an absolute minimum - we must not be surprised if the developing world reacts by lumping us all together without distinction.
As regards matters such as the pluralism of the world and multilateralism, it is even more important that we adopt a role of absolute leadership because there is no one else who can keep these debates open, and we know how valuable they are at this time.
It must also be said, quite frankly, that these are debates which can be kept open in a credible manner if there is a financial commitment, and that is very difficult to fulfil at this time.
I do, in any case, believe that, for the sake of the future cohesion of our societies, we must make a huge effort to facilitate integration as a priority.
Total integration is, in my opinion, a major objective for an open society, and it must take place in full respect for all cultures, in full respect for diversities, with a view to achieving societies which are not afflicted by conflict or tensions.
Clearly, this means that we need an immigration policy which is much more complex and much more cohesive than that we have been working on hitherto.
The top priority is the Convention on the future of Europe and we have invested a great deal of time and effort in order to ensure that the new Treaty promotes gender equality.
In all events, I welcome the initiative to put the Commission's annual progress report on sexual equality on the agenda for the spring summit under the Greek presidency.
The European Parliament and the Commission should set a standard for the other institutions.
Finally, I am worried and concerned about the fact that the proposal for a new directive on combating sexual discrimination on the basis of Article 13 of the Treaty keeps being postponed.
However, at the same time I would like to ask Commissioners Liikanen and Busquin what they are doing under their portfolios to ensure that Basle II is implemented without damaging the economy.
Basle II is about the creditworthiness of companies, of small and medium-sized enterprises, and about the guarantees and transparency this requires.
According to the Commission, the indicators continue to point to an acceleration in growth at the end of 2002.
The risk of a stock market crash, the impact of terrorism and the threat of war have significantly marked the world economy.
We could also aim for a more pragmatic economic policy by giving growth a boost.
That is what the US Government has done, injecting more than USD 100 billion into the economy in one year.
For us, as socialists, stability is important.
The socialists, however, advocate a proactive policy in favour of growth and employment, because in politics chanting has never produced results.
Even though the Union budget is just 1% of the Community gross domestic product, 16% of these scant appropriations were unused, in other words, saved.
Mr President, I shall end by saying that the Union set itself an ambitious strategy at the Lisbon Summit, and we must provide ourselves with the means to fulfil that ambition.
We have to establish that against the background of the Lisbon process, against the background of a growing demand for labour participation, against the background of requests for flexibility in the labour market and against the background of labour mobility in Europe, the Commission's programme, and in particular its legislative programme, is lacking in ambition as far as we are concerned, and that we think is a pity. 2003 threatens to be a lost year in this regard, certainly if we look at the legislation.
There is also a lack of initiative in the fields of parental leave, the protection of women workers, the disabled and atypical work, and I could go on.
We also believe that the problem does not lie with the Commissioner alone, but also and in particular with the Commission as such and with the Council.
We therefore ask the Council in particular to take steps on the occasion of the forthcoming mid-term review of the social agenda.
I wish you long life and good health, Vice-President Martin, long life and good health to all the Commissioners, long life and good health to all the Members of the European Parliament and long life and good health to the Council representative too, although I know that the Council - the 15 Heads of Government - is very concerned to learn that the European citizens are living longer.
However, it is they, the national governments, which have to take these decisions, and if they are going to be forced to cut pension payments, then they must make that clear openly, frankly and honestly to their citizens.
I would therefore ask you, Commission Vice-President, what the Commission intends to do to make the European citizens aware that Commissioner Diamantopoulou is not a fairy or a sorceress who is able to grant wealth to all the citizens but an evil ogre who is doing what the national governments tell her to.
The Commission has now achieved the major objectives established at the beginning of its term of office - enlargement and the reforms - but I feel that, in the final stage of its term of office, it must do more than just manage and implement what has already been achieved.
After the accession we hope for of Bulgaria and Romania in 2007, we must turn our gaze resolutely in three directions: towards Eastern Europe, the Western Balkans and the Mediterranean.
I therefore agree with what President Prodi said: we must develop a ring of friends stretching from Russia to Morocco, without excluding the possibility of them acceding to the Union under the same conditions as the other countries which have already become part of it.
This opens horizons for the future which will extend our project even beyond the geographical confines of our continent.
While we are preparing to launch the widest and, perhaps, most important enlargement of the Union, we need to be aware of these possibilities.
The day when Europe ceases to concern itself with the countries beyond its borders will be the day when it loses part of its basic raison d'être.
Mr President, I have a few specific questions about development policy for the Commission.
My specific question to you is: what new steps will you be taking to achieve this in your work programme for 2003?
The specific question is: what initiatives will you be presenting in this area in addition to the Cotonou Treaty that will actually do something about a regulated migration policy which - and let us start with North Africa and a number of the suppliers from the different regions - actually involves the relationship with the developing countries?
In the old Member States too it is necessary to give attention to the implementation of EU legislation.
When enlargement takes place we shall particularly have to avoid distortions of competition due to the uneven implementation of directives, for example, in environmental and competition policy.
Faith in the Stability and Growth Pact is being shaken.
I would ask the Commission how it intends to integrate this ambitious timetable for enlargement with improved economic competitiveness in Europe.
Mr President, I have a question for Commissioner Diamantopoulou regarding the European employment process and the most practical difficulty to which it gives rise, namely the problem of implementing the policy in the Member States.
My question now is whether the Commission has progressed any further on this issue and has clearer ideas in this regard.
If we look at each individual Member State, they all have some sort of national action plan for employment in as much as their parliaments have adopted budgets which establish which measures in the area of labour market policy have funding for the coming year.
I therefore wonder why the Commission is not clearer on this point.
Mr President, the fight against terrorism has been, and must continue to be, one of our priorities, if not our main priority.
I also believe - and I would like to hear the Commission's opinion on this - that there should be some coordination initiative in the police field which would put an end to these areas of confusion, which are so difficult to explain to the citizens.
It has presented all the initiatives it should have presented.
We have a package of proposals which make up a coherent and reasonable immigration policy.
What we need to do is to begin to take decisions in this area.
And finally I would like to welcome the proposal for integration policies and, above all, the idea of coordinating these polices with social policy.
If we believe that immigrants must enter Europe for employment purposes, we must be effective in both areas, we need an immigration policy which works, but also a labour market which works, a social policy which incorporates immigrants in order to respond to the local problems which immigration creates.
Unfortunately, we are currently facing the terrible accident involving the Prestige off the coast of Galicia, which makes this working principle all the more evident.
I would also like to acknowledge the Commissioner for Transport and the European Parliament's Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, who have approved the Erika I and Erika II packages, which, had they already been applied, could perhaps have helped us to prevent an accident of this nature.
In this respect, I would like to point out that the Directive on the monitoring of traffic - yet to be transposed - in Article 20, lays down the definition of areas of refuge, which, although they are vague, would allow vessels with problems to reach them to try to resolve them.
And the measure, Madam Vice-President, if included in the Commission's programme, could be applied urgently without the need to wait for transposition of the directive.
Mr President, my questions also relate to environmental policy.
Perhaps Commissioner Liikanen or Commissioner Wallström should answer the question of what has happened to the Commission's goals on the issue of PVC.
My second question relates to the structural funds, the common agricultural policy and EU-financed programmes and plans in general.
I now want to know whether it is the case that the Commission has started to set up an internal organisation to ensure that there is sufficient capacity to implement this type of impact assessment for EU-financed plans and programmes.
My final question relates to Natura 2000.
Now it has been included in the programme, and I would therefore simply like to point out the importance of this communication actually being issued next year, preferably as soon as possible.
Mr President, the closure of Strasbourg Airport on Monday evening, which of course held us all up for quite some time, has prompted me to put a question to the Commission on the following subject.
Mr President, while welcoming the programme presented to us today I must express some alarm that on page 12, under 'Key initiatives - sustainable and inclusive economy', the mountain has laboured and made a promise to produce a green paper on public services or services of economic interest.
This Parliament has repeatedly pointed out to the Commission and the Council over many years that there is an urgent need for a directive on a framework for services of general economic interest.
My understanding is that the spring summit instructed the Commission to come forward with a proposal for a framework for services of a general interest by the end of this year.
This House and the spring summit have been ignored.
All the calls this House has made for universal services of general interest to the citizens of Europe to be guaranteed as a matter of urgency have been ignored, although this is a key part of European citizenship and of the social model we are so proud of in Europe.
The first is about securing our external borders.
My second question is about migration.
Commissioner Vitorino, how do you intend to ensure that a system of this kind can finally be made operational and that we can secure Council approval?
You have integrated the concept of sustainability throughout, as we have always requested.
You have conflicts between environmental, industrial and trade policy, and there is also often conflict between consumer protection and trade policy.
That is why I am asking you, Mrs de Palacio, how you intend to resolve conflicts within the Commission in future, and whether you are willing to air these conflicts in a more open and transparent way.
President Prodi has spoken of a single cycle of economic policy coordination - I am referring to point 2.3, b4) - and, indeed, only a single cycle is needed because the objectives laid down in the Stability Pact and the broad economic policy guidelines must coincide with those of the real economy, in other words the labour market and, above all, welfare.
Well, while the labour market already has an implicit coordination process - the Luxembourg process - which has been making positive headway for six or seven years now, the same is not true for the more recent (as one might say) Laeken process for coordinating welfare action, which has yet to be put into practice.
The two systems are unbalanced: much has been done in the area of close coordination on the labour market, while everything still remains to be done as regards welfare.
Finally, we put emphasis on the CFSP in preparing the Commission's role in that area.
Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the presentation of the Commission's legislative and work programme for the year 2003 constitutes an important stage in working relations between our two institutions.
In fact, the presentation of this programme today marks the end of an interinstitutional schedule of financial payments agreed between our two institutions in January 2002.
As this is the first exercise of its kind, it will clearly be possible to improve a number of points next time and I shall take the liberty of coming back to this matter at the end of my speech.
In February 2002, the Commission presented to Parliament the annual political strategy for the year 2003.
On the basis of this document, a true interinstitutional dialogue took place, from April to July, between the parliamentary committees and Commissioners concerned, on the scope and implementation of political priorities in each specific field of competence.
Mr President, allow me to inform the European Commission, as well as Parliament, of my positive assessment of the interinstitutional schedule of financial payments which has been established for the first time.
More or less one year ago, the Commission position, as you will all recall, was practically the opposite.
In fact, it was possible to establish the schedule of financial payments due to the mutual trust that has been created between our two institutions with regard to legislative programming.
I therefore hope that the resolution upon which Parliament is to vote on 5 December will also address the Council with a view to establishing its programme for the year.
I would like to end by emphasising the importance of dialogue with the Council.
Efficient legislative programming effectively means two things.
First of all, transparency in terms of knowledge and citizens' access to the legislative work that the European Union intends to undertake in the year ahead.
Secondly, greater efficiency in carrying out legislative work, not forgetting that, thanks to better programming, Parliament, the Council and the Commission can inform the national parliaments and the citizens on legislative work and take full responsibility for it.
We have already heard several times that the signals indicating the direction the Commission would like to go in here are too weak.
That may be justified, but that is all the more reason to give stronger political signals offering these countries two alternatives: either the route to membership at a later stage, or some other option.
The Zagreb Summit is coming up.
You have brought forward a raft of energy policy proposals, including proposals on energy policy in relation to nuclear safety.
Thirdly, there is the issue of a sustainable and inclusive economy.
Mr President, this has undoubtedly been a good debate between the institutions and 2003 will be an important year against the backdrop of enlargement.
However, I could not help thinking while listening to the many detailed questions that we have heard that perhaps more of what I and my colleagues have been dealing with could have been dealt with at an earlier stage in the Committees, to give us a more strategic debate here today.
On behalf of my group, I welcome the emphasis on impact assessments and the emphasis on involvement of our citizens and transparency.
We have had a good debate, a good exchange, but I still am left wondering whether it has truly been the strategic debate that should have engaged all of this House and our citizens outside.
Who could oppose the objectives of succeeding in enlargement, ensuring stability and security, firmly supporting the relaunch of the economy and employment, controlling globalisation and ensuring that the resulting benefits are redistributed as widely as possible taking account of Kyoto, Monterrey and Johannesburg, not forgetting a knowledge-based society, developing research with increased appropriations and better interaction between science and society.
I do not know what the future holds for the Johannesburg conclusions, but I am fully aware of the way in which some have treated the Kyoto conclusions.
I cannot believe, however, that they will be achieved more successfully in 2003 than in 2002 or 2001, unless the necessary financial and political means are provided.
I, like Mrs Wallis, think that we have to set priorities and that Europe has to decide on its place and its role in the world and in the future of the world.
This is really the main priority for me and for us.
We must start by adapting our own institutions and asking ourselves whether our own house is in order.
The constitutional regions, the other regions too, the regions with their own language, their own culture, even with legislative and their own implementing authorities, will continue to be deprived of all this and be left behind empty-handed.
Secondly, we want the full integration of the countries that are going to become the European Union with us.
I hear the complaint for example that very many people are unable to find European Union documents available in their own language.
Personally I do not believe that Europe should extend to the borders of Iraq, Iran and Syria, but we do have to be able to offer Turkey an attractive partnership.
As long as Europe is more part of the problem of poverty than part of the solution, then, Mr Nielsen, we have to place a big question mark by all the good things we undoubtedly do.
This could be done as follows: the Commission should only be permitted to put forward new proposals on condition that the corresponding old legislation is deleted in the process.
This approach would make it possible to reduce the acquis communautaire from more than 85 000 pages to perhaps 25 000 pages.
We want a Europe of democracies based on diversity, as we believe that people will be happier if they can determine their own affairs as far as possible without interference and free from detailed rules drawn up by bureaucrats and lobbyists in Brussels.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like every year, reading the Commission's legislative programme for 2003 is enough to make your head spin, first of all because it measures the scope of the areas of intervention in the European Union.
It shows that, from reviews to reforms of the Treaties, the Member States have given up their most legitimate prerogatives to become nothing more than local municipalities of the future European super-State.
The theoretical introduction of the principle of subsidiarity that you claim to want finally to take into account after ten years by no means curbs the Union's legislative appetite.
The report also shows the underlying commitment to prepare the European Union for enlargement, and not only from the institutional point of view.
Lastly, the document as a whole leaves a nasty taste in the mouth.
The 2003 programme reveals the importance of the international servitude of the European Union, in addition to the desire to open up the Union as a whole to immigration, which is described as a source of cultural riches and economic strength, which unfortunately is in no way confirmed by the facts.
When we presented our first proposals, we received initial reactions from Parliament's relevant committees.
This has been an initial test whose result has not been homogenous in all the committees.
Secondly, in relation to enlargement, I believe that President Prodi has been very clear.
There is no question that 2003 is still the main priority.
We must pursue the negotiations with the countries which are going to enter in the second wave and ensure that all the changes and adaptations which the candidates entering in 2004 have committed themselves to are being implemented and carried out.
But at the moment the priority - let us make this very clear - is what we have on the table: the 2004 countries and those countries, in principle, Bulgaria and Rumania, which should enter in 2007.
With regard to Turkey, we are in a situation of stand-by, of waiting, simply because Turkey is yet to fulfil the political requirements for entry into the Union.
The European Union, as the most developed knowledge-based economy, which aims for full employment, will in 2010 be the most competitive society.
With regard to resources and ambitions, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, despite everything, the results of the development and process of European Union construction clearly indicate that our ambitions are great, but that we are achieving them.
Of course, the Commission can always ask for more human resources and has done so, specifically in view of enlargement.
Flight plans are still coordinated within Europe by Eurocontrol, not only for the Fifteen, but for all the members of Eurocontrol, of which there are now more than thirty.
We were right to demand greater speed in the approval of measures and in the application of the measures proposed.
And since they have been delayed, regrettably, the Prestige accident has taken place.
Let us hope that the early implementation of the 'Erika I' package - I have asked the Ministers for it to enter into force before next June - and of the 'Erika II' package, in February 2004, will prevent any further accident such as that suffered by the Prestige or by the Erika three years ago.
In 2003 the Commission will present a directive on minimum rules on return policy, above all in order to guarantee the mutual recognition of return decisions taken by a Member State.
When it comes to integration policy, we have put forward a proposal to create some pilot projects between 2003 and 2005 in order to promote the exchange of best practices as far as integration policy is concerned.
However, it has to be recognised that there is no explicit legal basis in the Treaty for dealing with integration policy at European level.
Therefore we need to discuss the added value of addressing integration policy in European-wide terms.
Thirdly, as far as immigration and asylum is concerned, I can reiterate that the Commission has put forward all the proposals asked of it by the Tampere European Council and the Laeken Council.
The only two new elements of asylum policy that we are taking into consideration are two proposals that are included in our programme for 2003.
The first one concerns resettlement policy and the second protection in the region - the possibility of asking for asylum outside the territory of the European Union.
Thirdly, concerning the Seville Conclusions, I would draw your attention to the fact that the Commission has already presented to the Council the proposal on mandates for new readmission agreements with the People's Republic of China, Albania, Algeria and Turkey.
In June 2003 we are supposed to present, as set out in our programme, the report on burden sharing on external border control.
The report aims to identify effective allocations of financial tools, possible shortcomings and the vulnerabilities that must be overcome in the future.
When it comes to external borders, I can confirm that the Commission intends to present a reform of the common manual on external borders in March 2003.
All the other actions asked of us in Seville, such as joint training and joint operation in the control of external borders, are already being developed by the appropriate Council working group and will be financed by the Commission's ARGO programme.
As far as legislative action is concerned, priority should be given to the fight against sources of financing for terrorism, and several of the proposals included in our programme address this challenge.
As regards the question of the relationship between international agreements on the environment and the WTO framework, in Johannesburg it was a non-event and nothing new happened: nothing was added to WTO, nothing was subtracted.
The hard core of follow-up actions for the European Union to Johannesburg will be our water and energy initiatives.
I agree with Mr van den Burg that we need more rapid disbursement, especially regarding activities covered by the EDF.
As regards the agricultural profile of Europe in these global negotiations, this is back on track.
We managed in Johannesburg and we are still managing to keep alive the formulations embedded in the Doha language on this front.
We still see the external actions there as part of the necessary process of adaptation, which we in Europe have to take seriously.
Yesterday in the General Affairs and External Relations Council this was again the case.
We shall be having a further Relex Commissioners' meeting in December with the aim of defining a Commission vision of an optimum armaments policy for the European Union, ensuring that its defence-related industry is competitive and in a position to underpin the capabilities required for the ESDP.
This is a testament to the great progress that has been made in the dialogue between the Council and Parliament, and I am happy to be present on this occasion, too, and to contribute to the dialogue for a couple of minutes, without delaying the start of the voting at 12 noon sharp.
The Presidency is very pleased with the Commission's proposals.
It is now up to the Greek and Italian Presidencies, therefore, to draw up a joint work programme for the Council for the coming year.
The new work programme will be presented to the Council in December: probably on 9-10 December.
I understand that the vote on the Commission's programme here in Parliament is taking place as early as 5 December.
I am convinced that the upcoming Presidencies will pay due regard not only to the Commission work programme but also to the views on the work programme that Parliament has expressed and is going to express in the days ahead.
As I announced yesterday, the General Affairs Council recommended the day before yesterday at its meeting in Brussels that accession take place on 1 May, and that the brand new Commission, including Commissioners from the new Member States, take office on 1 November, so that the new Parliament has enough time to approve the new Commissioners.
In this way, in the intervening period, from 1 May to 1 November, there will be Commissioners from the new Member States who do not have a portfolio, and who therefore do not need to be approved by Parliament.
The motions for resolutions on these items will be voted on in Brussels on 5 December 2002.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, yesterday morning we had the part-session with our colleagues from the candidate countries.
Colleagues, yesterday morning here in this Chamber I remarked that the coming year, in terms of the European enlargement process, will be a year of parliaments and parliamentarians.
I refer to the work we need to do, and the work that needs to be done in the parliaments of the Member States and candidate countries.
I should also like to point out that some of the Members of Parliament from the delegations from the Accession States are in the gallery today for our important vote.
Before the vote on paragraph 3: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Monday the Council agreed to set the date of accession at 1 May at the latest.
Mr President, I just want to inform you that the coordinators of all the political groups in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have adopted the decision, which will be endorsed by the committee itself, to table an oral question during the next part-session regarding the decisions that the General Affairs Council adopted on matters of sensitive institutional importance without consulting the European Parliament.
The original text will be part of the vote on paragraph 3.
The President established that there was no objection to the oral amendment.
I would also like to suggest that we should take the first sentence from Amendment No 52 from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which was originally withdrawn, and add it to paragraph 18.
Before the vote on Amendment No 42: Mr President, I would like to propose an oral amendment concerning paragraph 34.
I would propose keeping paragraph 34 as it appears in the draft text, and adding Amendment No 42 to this text of paragraph 34, by simply inserting the words 'and welcomes it in this context'.
The second part of Amendment No 9 by the PPE-DE could then be considered as an addition, as well as the second part of Amendment No 12 by the Greens, which would also be an addition.
These amendments are compatible.
Mr President, I must point out that those who voted against this have not understood a thing ? ?
because all they have succeeded in doing is preventing the words 'in this context' from being inserted, as we are going to vote on all the other parts.
Before the vote on Amendment No 10: Mr President, let me cut a long story short.
In order to achieve as broad a basis as possible, we will be voting for Amendment No 6.
Thank you for that early explanation of vote.
Before the vote on paragraph 71: Mr President, I am the rapporteur for this part.
I note that the English is the authoritative version and, as I said earlier, we will ensure after the vote that all language versions are correct.
Before the vote on paragraph 102: Mr President, I would like to add a sentence which takes account of the more recent developments in the media sector, a sector which governments try to control and where they try to put pressure on the press.
This time I am not speaking to raise an interpretation or translation issue, but simply to say that the text 'in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations Security Council' has mysteriously disappeared from the Spanish version.
Mr President, I will take this opportunity to say that, perhaps in the same mysterious way, my voting card disappeared at the beginning of the vote and I have not been able to participate in the first three nominal votes.
The recommendation for second reading before us is about the Community statistical programme for the next five years, 2003 to 2007.
Unless a decision is reached today, Eurostat will not have any money to start this programme on 1 January 2003, and I therefore call on this House to adopt the common position.
I say this in the hope that the Council will this time show more insight and be more open to our wise counsel! (Loud applause and heckling) Thank you for that vital explanation.
Mr President, I would like to add a fifth footnote, beneath the table, saying: 'The financial reference amount has to be compatible with the ceilings of heading 3 of the financial perspective'.
We will make the linguistic corrections after the vote. (Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) Joint motion for a resolution Mr President, to clarify this matter I would like the words 'and their constitutional regions' inserted after 'Member States'.
Mr President, media concentration is an important issue not only at European and national level but also at sub-Member State level.
In the central belt of Scotland there are two serious broadsheet newspapers, The Herald and The Scotsman.
The Herald has recently been put up for sale by the Scottish Media Group.
Rumours have it that the current owners of The Scotsman - the Barclay Brothers - are trying to buy The Herald.
All we can do is to suggest a few improvements such as: prohibiting media owners (even with just one share) from owning shares in companies which tender for public works or public procurement; insisting that shares in these companies be registered; ensuring that no one owns more than one of the same type of medium; and re-opening the debate on state-owned radio and television subject to constant and efficient public control.
The resolution under discussion turns a blind eye to the real dangers and keeps to a general stand on pluralism and freedom of expression and incomprehensible (obviously compromise) proposals on how and if the European Union should legislate in this area, which is why the MEPs of the Community Party of Greece voted against it.
A third group believes we should draw up a directive that sets limits for media ownership, or propose restrictions on the appropriate use of advertising resources in order to guarantee free competition.
All these are ridiculous proposals whose only function is to imply that the European Parliament is a pillar of democracy.
Most newspapers and some television channels belong to press groups which, in turn, belong to proprietary trusts of companies in many other fields: the likes of Vivendi, Lagardère, Bouygues and a few dozen others play a decisive economic and social role and are more powerful than the State and far more influential than the electorate.
The increased concentration of large media groups and their greater market share is also a result of public authorities, which have liberalised and privatised this area, recently divesting themselves of responsibility for the media.
I deplore the fact that a specific defence of the role of public service and the need to ensure the survival of publicly funded television channels has not been included in the resolution, as the motion tabled by my group proposed.
I wanted to make it clear that within countries like Scotland and other so-called 'constitutional regions' there must be protection against concentrations of media ownership that threaten fair and pluralistic public debate.
In Scotland today, there is a serious risk that the owners of The Scotsman newspaper may purchase its chief rival The Herald.
Even without the oral amendment, the resolution makes a vital point about the relationship between free media and real democracy.
In particular, I should like to underline the importance of paragraphs 121 and 122, which mention the Commission's intention to propose an increase in financial assistance and pre-accession aid for the countries that will still be candidates after 2004, which means Bulgaria and Romania.
I hope that such aid will be substantial, and that there will not be just a modest increase in these resources because, while it is true that both countries - Bulgaria and Romania - still lack the economic prosperity that has enabled the other countries to be admitted first, it is also true that, for that very reason, they have greater need of aid to turn around their economies, which were particularly badly damaged by the years spent under the Soviet regime.
This law has no place in a European Community of values that calls for the protection of basic rights.
A newly reunited Europe cannot legitimise collective expulsion.
Recital O in the report gives an important signal here and therefore has our unqualified support.
Even if paragraphs 46 and 47 are basically welcome, what is missing from the report are specific demands in relation to the serious safety problems with the Temelin nuclear power station and the possible decommissioning of the station.
decrees and the Temelin nuclear power station, it comes out clearly in many places against fraud, corruption and discrimination.
With regard to Turkey, my group is in favour of the recommendation in Amendment No 7 for the creation of a special partnership between the EU and Turkey.
I voted in favour of the Brok report on enlargement because I believe that plenary should send out a positive signal to the 10 countries applying for membership of the European Union.
I think that the European Parliament should throw off its present financial straitjacket and call for a substantial increase in the Community budget, so that the cohesion countries can continue to receive structural aid and new members are not treated, financially speaking, as second-class citizens.
I also think that our main priority should be to support the large sections of society in European countries being swept aside by neo-liberal policies, the sell-off of public property and the dismantling of welfare systems.
The European Parliament also put a stranglehold on the Cypriot people by adopting an amendment calling on both sides to sign a framework agreement before Copenhagen.
This result illustrates yet again that the pompous pronouncements of the European Parliament and of the European Union in general on respect for and the defence of human rights are pure hypocrisy and that enlargement is an anti-grass roots, anti-democratic exercise.
Since the Helsinki Council, the European Union pretends to consider Turkey as a 'normal' candidate, just like the others, and is turning a blind eye to the basic problems of its accession application.
We believe it would be completely premature for the Copenhagen Council to set a date for the commencement of accession negotiations with Turkey.
We think it would be equally premature to set a date as of now for a future meeting at which the opening date would be set.
The Helsinki Council committed a serious error in 1999, in recognising Turkey as a 'European' State that would be eligible for accession to the Union.
In fact, Turkey does not fall within the scope of Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union with regard to accession.
Allowing current Member States to decide on access to this freedom has devolved one of the Union's most fundamental rights to Member States.
No one wants to introduce internal border protection within the Union.
This resolution provides a balanced view of the impact of enlargement on agriculture and small and medium-sized businesses and industries.
The votes have also made it possible to reject amendments designed to separate Turkey from normal accession procedure.
The report also supports NATO's plans to admit new countries: a line of action with which we totally disagree.
Turkey must of course meet the requirements on human rights and democracy before there can be any talk of proper negotiations for its accession, but we oppose the reactionary line of thinking that wants to turn the EU into a white, Christian - it is tempting to use the word 'Aryan' - club.
The Council's proposals did not meet the expectations that were raised and could even alienate more communities from the EU project.
We shall continue to fight for effective economic and social cohesion, which the current conditions for accession do not guarantee, to fight against the discriminatory proposals and to fight for the rights and interests of Portugal, which could be seriously affected unless the current proposals are revised.
This report highlights the extraordinary work carried out by the democratic Cypriot authorities to implement the Community acquis in Cyprus and thereby make good their commitments.
Although a reunited Cyprus is not considered a criterion for accession to the European Union, which I am pleased about, a peaceful political settlement is still a priority.
The European Union must exercise all its influence in this regard.
With regard, more specifically, to possible accession by Turkey to the European Union, we should not forget that the real issue of Europe's borders remains unresolved.
The enlargement of the EU is therefore presented as a hypocritical 'institutional step forward' with no social rights, no development of common public assets or any real democratic choice.
We believe it is the responsibility of the citizens of Eastern Europe to decide whether this deterioration in their situation could be fought more effectively by staying out of the Union or joining it. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) When the Iron Curtain came down 13 years ago everyone in the West thought that the great changes in the East would consist mainly of greater freedom of speech and greater freedom for the voters to appoint politicians of their own choice.
These changes have since been overshadowed by others.
The people in these countries have been prepared to accept sacrifices, dilution and chaos in the hope that they would be rewarded with major inflows of money from the EU from the time of their accession.
As an Eastern European I would perhaps reject accession to the EU, but as a Western European I feel obliged to show solidarity with those peoples if they themselves wish to accede. . (PT) I have voted in favour of the Brok report, although I did vote against paragraph 31 for two reasons: 1.
We cannot admit to having committed crimes and atrocities against humanity when, fortunately, we did not commit or condone any such action; 2.
No mention is made of the crimes and atrocities committed in many of the candidate countries after the Second World War by Soviet communism, from which this round of enlargement is providing definitive deliverance.
As a matter of fact, as we have frequently said, our position is that in the dispute between enlargement and the so-called 'deepening' of the EU, priority should - and must - always be given to enlargement.
We consequently felt that Maastricht in particular was an historic error of timing and that, at that time, in light of the fall of the Berlin Wall, which had taken place just a few months previously, Europe's leaders should have had the political vision to give priority to enlargement instead of launching straight into political union and EMU.
Mr Brok urges the European Union to adopt a more coherent stance on the question of Turkey's candidacy.
We urgently need to recognise that the unfortunate decision of the Helsinki European Summit, which gave Turkey the same status as a candidate country as Poland or Hungary, for example, is not based on any geographical, historical, cultural or legal grounds.
The Copenhagen Summit provides an opportunity to end this ambiguity, which, if it is not resolved, will seriously taint relations between Turkey and the Member States for a long time to come.
It therefore puts a strain on the poorest households.
It is actually the responsibility of the State to provide proper social protection.
You have made industrial, banking and trade secrets into supreme laws precisely in order to draw a modest veil over the thousand-and-one misappropriations, bribes, swindles and other fiddles that enable you to reap the maximum profit and even conceal the waste that your economic system represents for society.
How, then, can we combat corruption in an economy that turns everything into a commodity and where anything can be bought and sold, be it brains, brawn or conscience?
We must fight against corruption both in the public sector, where it undermines the operation of the democratic system and citizens' confidence in the integrity of the democratic rule of law, and in the private sector, where corruption tends to distort the rules of competition and prevent healthy economic development.
I therefore regret the fact that this proposal for a framework decision is intended to regulate only the private and not the public sector, especially given that national legislations are still not harmonised - there are, for example four Member States that have still not ratified the EU Convention on corruption in the public sector - which could give rise to situations of objective legal uncertainty.
I therefore call on the Commission to present a proposal to regulate these two types of crime.
This report was voted on under Rule 110a of the Rules of Procedure, which allows for no debate and no amendments to the report.
The British Delegation of the PPE-DE Group has previously sought to amend reports which it did not support.
The new rule, however, leaves no option but to vote against certain reports.
Although we believe that there is a need for legislation that punishes the types of crime we are discussing - corruption in both the public and private sectors - the issue requires more extensive study in order to prevent the adoption of vague and indeterminate concepts, non-observance of the principle of subsidiarity, the risk of obstacles to fundamental freedoms or distortions of competition and even the use of different legal approaches to the two types of crime in question.
Furthermore, I also believe - as does the Committee on Legal Affairs - that legislation is needed to regulate these two types of crime, corruption in the public and private sectors, which will enable us to establish a more coherent and effective regulatory framework.
Parliament has given a clear answer to the citizens, who are facing a serious lack of confidence in the transparency of the markets and many institutions.
The European reference framework on combating corruption is still fragmented, non-binding and in need of a bold step forward.
Parliament has asked those Member States who have not yet done so to ratify the European Union Convention and the Council of Europe Convention on corruption in the public sector.
If this does not happen, Parliament has asked the Council to submit a new framework decision on corruption in the public sector.
Some States are anticipating the implementation of the European arrest warrant, like the United Kingdom, which was the first country to transpose the arrest warrant into national law with the Extradition Bill. (Text abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1)) . (PT) Once again, we are considering a Member State initiative that errs on the side of being too cautious and unambitious and will not lead to the changes in legislation that are desirable and necessary in this field.
Although cooperation contributing to the prevention, identification and investigation of crimes is already in place, we must strengthen certain aspects of this cooperation between liaison officers in order to make the best use of Member State resources, thereby providing greater world coverage.
Combating international crime must be a joint action based on maximum cooperation and trust between Member States.
It is crucial that binding instruments are in place at Community level, establishing common rules on the competences of liaison officers and on data protection and to subject the legality of this exchange of information to judicial control.
The huge variety of laws in force creates enormous difficulties for the effective cooperation of national liaison officers and Europol, as well as complicating judicial control.
This specific stepping-up of police cooperation is particularly relevant in the field of information and will doubtless have an increasing role to play in combating organised crime, particularly given the rate at which this type of crime is increasing.
The British Conservative Delegation is particularly keen to protect children and their rights, and the standards which are applied in the UK are generally very high.
The reduction of certain VAT rates could be an advantage for consumers.
Given the circumstances, the decision to extend this measure until the end of 2003 is a positive factor, as emphasised by the rapporteur.
In fact, we need to prevent a legal vacuum from being created after 31 December 2002, as this would be harmful to the businesses concerned, in particular, very small, small and medium-sized enterprises.
The hotel and catering sector must benefit from a preferential VAT rate, given the very high level of social and fiscal charges that it pays in general.
Workers in this sector quite rightly consider that reducing the rate of VAT would allow a significant number of employees to be recruited.
A reduction in VAT rates would also allow many establishments to adjust working hours.
The reform that is currently underway has extremely serious implications for my country and for the Algarve region.
Such activity prevents the effective and sustainable management of fish stocks.
In this context I agree with the call to close European ports to vessels flying flags of convenience or which are engaged in illegal fishing.
We will thereby prevent the entry of these products onto the European market.
We cannot, on the one hand, impose strict fishing quotas and, on the other, not take action to prevent illegal fishing activities.
Funding fell to a minimum, research institutes closed, researchers abandoned research, there were no incentives for new researchers and, worst of all, there was a brain drain, with the most experienced researchers moving to the west.
The report recommends the participation of candidate countries in the EU framework programme on research almost as a panacea.
At the same time, however, it advises linking research to industry and creating a favourable business climate; in other words, it is pushing for the EU model to be adopted and wants research to operate in accordance with market rules.
Although no one could object to international scientific cooperation on equal terms, we cannot under any circumstances allow research to serve and be controlled by major financial interests.
The report highlights the extent to which the situation in the Central and Eastern European candidate countries (CEECs) has deteriorated during the 'painful readjustment process of CEECs'.
In terms of research alone, this observation is indicative of a more general state.
We are told that the European programmes intended to support research in these countries could remedy this backwards step.
I am sorry to see that the European institutions, the Commission, the Council and, sadly, also Parliament are making fools of themselves by voting, on the one hand, for restrictions on the advertising of tobacco and, on the other, to maintain subsidies for tobacco producers.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we should support the fundamental health protection efforts being made in the European Union.
If we were to accept the Commission's logic, we would also have to rethink our position on advertising sweets, fast cars and alcohol.
Thirdly, a policy that simultaneously subsidises tobacco and bans its advertising is neither logical nor consistent, and cannot therefore really be taken seriously.
Finally, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that what we have here is a contradiction in se.
I voted in favour of the amended proposal to ban the advertising of tobacco products because all the amendments by the Committee on Legal Affairs were rejected.
However, even this second Commission proposal still has a question mark next to it, based as it is on the internal market rather than the protection of public health. . (SV) We, the Swedish Social Democrats behind this explanation of vote, would like to present our motive for voting against Amendment No 17, regarding Article 2 b, which is that the definition of advertising cannot be implemented under Swedish law.
We would rather see use of the definition 'commercial advertising', which would allow us to continue to exempt tobacco advertising from freedom of expression without changing the constitution.
As the term commercial communications is a broader concept which also includes product placement, it conflicts with the Swedish Constitution.
When it comes to weighing up competition against public health, we believe that health must be prioritised over economic interests.
The advertising of tobacco products - just like the protection of nature and animal welfare - always leads to passionate and controversial debate.
I congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of his amendments and his attempt to pour oil on troubled waters.
We support his report, which aims to reconcile the prevention of tobacco addiction, a priority area in terms of public health as recommended by the WHO, the opportunity for Member States to retain their provisions on advertising, without creating barriers to the operation of the internal market and while maintaining some prospects for tobacco cultivation, a sector that has an uncertain future, which allows many small, precarious farms to continue functioning.
Five hundred European producers met here in Strasbourg from 5 to 7 November in order to express their concerns over the future of the COM set up in 1999, but also to present the progress made.
Let us support the tobacco growers' efforts! . (FR) Every day, tobacco kills more people, and every year, over 500 000 Europeans die from smoking or passive smoking.
In response to this scourge, we should take the necessary steps, in particular by significantly reducing all forms of advertising or sponsorship of these products.
Furthermore, harmonisation on the subject, due to adequate, responsible cooperation between the Member States, can effectively reduce the increase in cigarette sales as well as the number of lives destroyed by smoking.
The amendments proposed by Parliament, however, are highly ambiguous and do not adopt a position in favour of public health, but quite the opposite.
Under cover of arguments twisted to suit this context, such as the emphasis on freedom of speech, the wording of the parliamentary proposals allows for too free an interpretation and does not present a firm provision to protect Europeans.
Five million people die from smoking a year and 550 000 of them are Europeans.
Secondly, this draft directive establishes a platform for advertising bans, and not a complete ban as we would have wished.
It should be possible for national legislation to be more restrictive than the directive on this issue.
Advertising that encourages people to start using tobacco products or to start using more of them is extremely damaging.
According to the Court of Justice this is not allowed because Article 152(4) of the Treaty excludes the harmonisation of statutory and administrative provisions of the Member States for the protection and improvement of human health.
Further proof that the EU is about free competition and economic growth, but not about the protection of human welfare.
I therefore prefer the European Commission's original position to that produced by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
These are the reasons why I agree with this report. . (SV) I have voted in favour of the report in the final vote and against all 25 amendments from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
As a Swedish Christian Democrat, I felt compelled to support the restrictive and winning policy (311 votes in favour, 202 votes against and 39 abstentions) in the European Parliament.
The directive involves a ban on advertising tobacco products in newspapers, radio broadcasts and on the Internet, as well as making tobacco-related sponsorship illegal.
The Member States will retain the right to take such measures as they deem necessary to protect public health when it comes to advertising not covered by the directive.
The Commission's proposal which aims to put in place a multiannual programme for action in the field of energy between 2003 and 2006, strengthens Community support in those energy fields contributing to sustainable development.
Organised crime is part and parcel of the capitalist system, even where bourgeois justice is concerned.
The Citizens of the European Union have the right to expect the Union to effectively confront the problem of increasing threats of crime, which does not recognise borders and which attacks their freedom and their rights.
What is required is rapid, concerted and joint action, which effectively coordinates all efforts to combat and prevent crime throughout the territory of the Member States.
The Union must make efforts to approximate criminal law and procedures on money laundering and the confiscation of goods.
I have therefore voted in favour of the report. . (SV) There are insufficient safeguards for legal rights in the proposal presented by Denmark.
It is unacceptable that Member States would be able to confiscate property owned by the defendant or their family members, who have nothing to do with the criminal activity, if the convicted person cannot prove that this property was acquired by legitimate means.
Mr President, I should like to add my support to your speech on The Scotsman and The Herald.
A tobacco advertising ban would be an extremely good measure to try and help public health and save lives.
We also believe that benefit from fishing agreements should be taken into account in quota setting and that poverty eradication is a key aim of fishing agreements.
I cannot, of course, accept this situation.
We reached this view because we believe that, although the report emphasises the importance of sustainable development in fishing, of environmental issues being integrated into the reform of the common fisheries policy and of the further need to clarify the environmental impact of industrial fishing, it also contains a host of signals and statements which we cannot support.
For example, we oppose state subsidies for a fishing fleet which is already too large in relation to fish stocks, despite the fact that there are probably deficiencies in terms of safety on some fishing vessels.
Fishing capacity must therefore be cut in order to bring it into balance with existing fish stocks.
The only way we can protect both the environment and workers is to protect the revenue of small fishermen.
Firstly because of the importance it attaches to the participation of fishermen and their professional associations in the field of research and information on the state of fish stocks, given that fishermen are in favour of protecting the environment, since these are amongst the first people to suffer from its impairment.
Secondly, I agree with the rapporteur's statement that the pressure fishing places on stocks must not be dealt with in a uniform and global way and must instead take account of the particular characteristics of each fishing area and the specific nature of each fish species.
The report rejects the use of rigid instruments such as the scrapping of vessels, which have irreversible consequences and major socio-economic effects and prefers other, more flexible instruments for managing stocks.
I support the maintenance of public aid for modernising the fishing fleet, which has a direct impact on working conditions, on safety and on the quality of products, thereby rejecting a philosophy which, whilst claiming to be concerned about the environment, is attempting to undermine aid, in what we could call a liberal 'greenification'.
Although it calls for these studies to be carried out, it also calls for restrictions such as TACs and quotas to be maintained.
As the rapporteur points out, decisions on fisheries management must be taken in close cooperation with fishermen, who are the main people involved and the most aware of the problem.
Unlike the Commission's approach, which suggests a global and uniform reduction of the pressure fishing places on stocks, not taking account of the specific characteristics of the various species and of the various fishing areas, we must, instead, follow the position adopted by the Santa Maria da Feira European Council, which recommended a sustainable balance between stocks and fishing.
That concludes the explanations of vote. (The sitting was suspended at 1.37 p.m.
The outcome of the vote was as follows.
The outcome of the split vote on Amendment No 654 was as follows: 1.
Amendment No 736 which was included in the appendix of the Minutes of the session of 24 October 2002 do not reflect the result of the vote in plenary in as much as the last two parts of the vote appear in reverse order.
The relevant services have therefore made the necessary change.
Mr President, I do not doubt that is what the President's notes say, but one of the problems with accepting it is that my notes and those of other Members and of the general rapporteur say differently.
Very well, Mr Wynn.
The meeting reflected the intensity and depth of the cooperation between the EU and Russia.
Consensus was reached on a joint declaration regarding transit between Kaliningrad and the rest of Russia.
The agreement represents a balance between the interests of the candidate countries, Russia and the EU.
The fact that a solution could be found to the problem confirms the strength of the cooperation between the EU and Russia; and at the same time the EU asserted that it attaches the utmost importance to respect for the sovereignty of the candidate countries and effective border controls on the EU's external borders.
We stood firm on the principles that Lithuania is a sovereign country and that it has as much right to join cooperation on Schengen as all the other candidate countries.
Consensus was also reached on a joint declaration on the fight against terrorism.
The summit condemned terrorism in all its forms.
The declaration and the accompanying cooperation plan are indications that cooperation between the EU and Russia on this point is moving on from an exchange of information to practical cooperation.
Lastly, consensus was reached on a declaration on the situation in the Middle East, which confirms the existing consensus between the EU and Russia on this matter.
The parties were agreed that the conflict cannot simply be regarded and treated as a problem of terrorism and that a political solution is the only way to lasting peace, stability and development in the area.
The EU will also demand that the international community be given the opportunity to provide the urgently needed humanitarian aid to Chechnya.
It is important to maintain that there are no geographical restrictions on the scope of the political dialogue between the EU and Russia.
The European Union stressed the need for progress on the economic and legal reforms in Russia in order to ensure Russian membership of the WTO.
As you are also aware, as a result of the discussions held at the May Summit in Moscow, the EU had agreed to carry out a review of the matter, taking further into account Russia's concerns about unimpeded travel of Russian citizens throughout the whole territory of the Russian Federation, including Kaliningrad.
In the relatively short time between the two summits, the Union completed a comprehensive review of the situation.
Following a communication from the Commission in September, this review formulated a new position on Kaliningrad transit issues, which was adopted in October by the European Council meeting in Brussels.
In parallel discussions with both Russia and Lithuania, the Presidency and the Commission managed to develop ways and means to ensure that the vital interests of all parties concerned would be respected.
In addition to Russia's legitimate interests, the EU was very much aware that any arrangements requiring further definition could not undermine the sovereignty of Lithuania - a future member of the Union - or carry negative implications for Lithuania's future accession in full to the Schengen regime.
Last but not least, the European Union must adequately protect its borders at all times, a task for which it was essential to respect the Schengen acquis.
The European Commission is confident that the understanding reached at the Brussels Summit strikes the right balance between these parameters, making it possible to resolve the issue of Kaliningrad transit in a manner which is acceptable to all parties concerned.
The Commission has already started work to prepare for the implementation of the understanding reached at the Summit.
I would like to add that resolving the issue of Kaliningrad will allow us to substantially deepen and accelerate our cooperation with the Russian Federation in a number of important areas.
In addition, Russia and the European Union will immediately launch negotiations with a view to concluding a readmission agreement as soon as possible.
In this context, the Summit also produced a joint statement defining areas for further cooperation in the fight against terrorism, which is a clear priority for both sides.
I would like to assure you that the well-established position of the Union on the matter was put forward to President Putin in quite clear terms.
While expressing its support for Russia against terrorism in all its forms, the Union explicitly stated that the fight against terrorism cannot be conducted at the expense of basic human rights.
This is also valid for Chechnya.
In addition, the EU urged the Russians to promote without delay a political solution that provides a framework for lasting peace, stability and reconstruction in Chechnya.
We also exchanged assessments regarding the threat of nuclear proliferation in the Korean Peninsula.
Finally, we reviewed the situation in Moldova and Belarus.
Russia has already agreed to the withdrawal and destruction of ammunition in the breakaway region of Transnistria.
The EU stated that it is essential that this takes place rapidly in order to promote a solution to the conflict which continues to impede the development on Moldova, which is now the poorest country in Europe.
We also made it clear that we expect Russia to use its influence on the government of Belarus to adopt a more positive approach towards democratisation and respect of human rights.
On the economic side, progress was less marked, except for the change in the EU anti-dumping regulations, which now accord Russia market economy status.
In addition, the Summit endorsed progress reports on the energy discussions and on the concept of a common European economic space.
I trust most of you are already aware that the 11th EU/Russia Summit will take place in St Petersburg, in commemoration of the 300th anniversary of the city.
Taking this into account, Russia has invited all EU leaders to this special summit, which should serve to deepen our bilateral cooperation with Russia even further.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my group advocates a stronger strategic partnership between the European Union and Russia, because we are convinced that peace in our continent is largely dependent upon our ability to maintain a strong and effective European Union and an effective and democratic Russian Federation.
I do not wish to criticise the presidency for the fact that the summit ended up being held in Brussels.
However, we also believe that the war on terrorism should not be deprived of its legitimacy by surrendering human rights in its name.
What this means in practice is that the human rights of the Chechen people should not be sacrificed at the altar of the war on terror, necessary though that war may be.
Now let me turn to Kaliningrad.
I read today in my local paper, the Neue Osnabrücker Zeitung, a well-written article entitled 'Russia offers little hope.
However, the people in the Kaliningrad region or 'oblast' - and this is the heart of the matter - look far more towards the West than they do towards Russia.
The question of Chechnya is being raised because we have a delegation leaving for Chechnya, and I am its chairman.
There has been a development regarding this in that today, after lengthy negotiations, I received a letter from Dmitri Rogozin of the State Duma, inviting us to go there on 20 January.
Trade between us is worth approximately 25 billion dollars a year, while the figure for the United States of America is just 3 billion and for the former countries of the Soviet Union only just over 10 billion dollars.
I should therefore like to ask the Commissioner in what state the energy dialogue can be in if all of a sudden Gazprom decides on a gas pipeline - coolly decides to build a gas pipeline.
The energy dialogue between us has not been very visible in this project.
We are the world's largest energy area, and the energy issue is therefore very important.
Mr President, Russia is of interest to us and is a partner that presents challenges.
For some reason, when we give our opinions we often stress in particular Russia's various problems instead of concentrating on its positive achievements and the potential that exists in future cooperation.
Many things are obviously better in the Union but we also have problems Russian Members of Parliament could seize on if they so wished.
I do not mean that we should keep silent, for example, about environmental problems, lack of democracy or human rights violations in Russia.
Right now it is important for us to discuss the effects EU enlargement will have on cooperation between the EU and Russia.
The Union must make a more serious effort than it has until now to engage in programmes of cooperation in the Barents Sea and Baltic Sea regions and furthermore direct substantial economic resources at those areas.
That would enable us on the one hand to help Russia develop its energy economy and protect its environment and, on the other, safeguard our own energy economy.
Mr President, my group notes with satisfaction that an agreement has been made that guarantees traffic connections with Kaliningrad after Lithuania and Poland join the Union.
Russia is an important partner for the EU because the reserves of gas in the North Sea and North Africa will run out in twenty years or so.
The first one is about Kaliningrad.
I believe that we can be satisfied with this and my group is satisfied with the result achieved.
Secondly, Chechnya.
Nonetheless, the European Parliament has taken the lead in this debate in recent months.
I find that our Russian friends, President Putin not least, have now adopted an extremely rigid attitude and since 11 September have put the whole struggle in Chechnya in the context of the war on international terrorism.
Thirdly, I should like to express my concern here about the general state of human rights in Chechnya.
Amnesty International has recently published a report about the freedom of the press, about the lack of religious freedom and about the general human rights situation in Russia.
I believe that this warrants some attention on our part.
I should like to ask the Commission and the Council very clearly how things stand with the negotiations on this treaty?
I should like to put this question to you Commissioner and to you Mr Haarder, for which my heartfelt thanks.
The investigation into this attack and ending of the hostage situation has shown that there are very close links between the Chechen movement and international Islamic terrorism.
I think that we should support Russia as it develops a culture of democracy and respect for human rights.
In this context I would ask Council and Commission to offer political backing to the OSCE mission in Chechnya.
Finally, I would like to stand up for full respect on the part of the EU for Lithuania's sovereignty in the transit agreement concluded for Kaliningrad and the Russian Federation.
I spent last week with an EP delegation in the United States.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we talk a lot about stability, but what type of stability are we intent on achieving?
Mr President, we are becoming increasingly aware - and we are also acting accordingly - that fundamental changes have taken place in Russia.
The problems of Russia are mostly very clear to us.
Russia is large enough, it can look after itself.
I should now like to turn to the problem with Chechnya.
It has indeed changed to being first and foremost a war on terrorism, but the damage for the civilian population is so disproportionate that we cannot take it lying down.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I would like to endorse the sentiments expressed by previous speakers in that I too am very pleased at the holding of the latest EU-Russia Summit and its outcome.
The agreement includes a commitment by the European Union to provide technical and financial aid to the Russians to promote the economic development of the enclave.
Kaliningrad's naval shipyards and all the maritime activities there are currently suffering from a severe economic downturn.
As regards security and defence however, though we are working hard on the relationship between Russian and NATO, we should also start to reflect on the relationship between European Security and Defence Policy and Russia.
Russia is also refusing to sign the agreement regarding EUR 190 million, mostly in the form of a donation, for the construction of the South West Waste Water Treatment Plant in St Petersburg, which would improve water quality in the Gulf of Finland.
He is desperate, because Russia's situation is desperate.
In 500 days Russia was to do what China had been tackling for 25 years.
Therefore, we should also treat Russia in the same way that we treat other European countries such as Turkey, and make it clear that the country has the right, on the same terms as other European countries, to full EU membership if it so desires and if all the conditions are met.
Those who persist in denying these realities or who talk about them in relative terms are leading us towards deadlock.
Mr President, we must be responsible and resist them.
Terrorism, arms trading and drug trafficking also exist in other states, including our own Member States.
The Chechens have been the victims of colonial persecution for 150 years.
No more was said about possible sanctions, which had been on the agenda since the summit of 1999 with Mr Yeltsin.
Now that all our partnership agreements contain a clause on human rights, why has international humanitarian law yet again yielded in spectacular fashion to the strength and reason of State?
Furthermore, while the Council and the Commission state that human rights in Chechnya have been discussed, I think this is far from the case.
Entering into negotiations with the Russians when this genocide is being committed is questionable, even if legitimate interests in the Baltic States and elsewhere should be protected.
The terrorism of despair of the Chechen fighters is in no way comparable with the State terrorism practised by Russia.
This is the reason why this agreement truly poses a problem.
After 70 years of the Soviet system, the future development of Russia is of course problematic, based as it is on a combination of deep-rooted structures and a new system.
As I see it, the position of the European Union can only be to provide active support during this massive restructuring process.
Even during the Soviet era, Russia has always been a key player in stabilising world peace.
The most important steps to be taken are systematic actions to build trust, to establish fair trade relations, and to reinforce Russia's economic development and provide any form of assistance that will promote the development of democracy, a process that has still not been completed after 12 or 13 years.
The Commissioner has told us that the European Union needs to secure its borders at all times and in all places.
That is a statement that even Erich Honecker could have signed up to, because transit through Lithuania will be more difficult for passengers than transit from West Germany to west Berlin via East Germany was in the old days.
I almost saw myself in the role of one of those Members of Parliament who demanded that now the Presidency should do this and that and pointed out that the Council had failed to do this or that or the other.
The same applies, moreover, to the holding of the conference which created the conflict between Denmark and Russia.
That is not something we can prevent, and we stand by that right, just as we have held firm in all other aspects to our democratic ideals.
We are in agreement on the fight against terrorism, but we are not in agreement in our appraisal of what has gone on, and is still going on, in Chechnya, and this was stated very, very clearly.
Fortunately, the dialogue was maintained, and the problems which were to be solved at the summit were solved.
I shall repeat what I have said before in Parliament when discussing the problem of Chechnya.
The division of responsibility in the Commission is quite meaningful.
That is why I am very careful to give a clearcut definition of my responsibilities as the Commissioner responsible for humanitarian aid.
If I were to fall into the temptation of engaging in political discussion on this issue, I would reduce the legitimacy and efficiency of my efforts to protect the access of humanitarian workers in places like Chechnya.
It is for the Commissioner on external relations to do that, and it is important, especially in this case, for us to be careful in our use of the instruments and commissioners available.
If, with my responsibilities, I fell into the temptation of politicising, we would reduce the weight of our efforts and our attempts to insist on having access.
I feed elements of this kind into every summit that we have with Russia.
All these issues are raised over and over again, and I would repeat my call for Parliament to view the Commissioner responsible for humanitarian aid as keeping to a relatively narrowly-defined remit, which is what I do.
Mr Paasilinna and a few others raised the question of the energy dialogue with Russia, and especially cooperation in the area of natural gas.
It is quite difficult to rush into a conclusion in an area where negotiating realities also have to reflect who engages commercially and who does not.
The issue of the gas pipeline negotiation is a long-term one.
There is a risk of contradictions between establishing the very long-term basis of those kinds of deals and the liberalisation of the gas market inside the Union, to which we would give priority.
Against that background it is not that simple to accommodate the desire shown by the other side to have a very long-term, stable kind of contract as a basis.
I will end by commending the cooperation between the Council and the Commission on this issue.
It is also something which has been duly recognised by Lithuania and which has certainly demonstrated to the other candidate countries that we take their situation seriously.
We are continually working on this and also in relation to the UN initiative and as the main funder of humanitarian aid to Chechnya.
For the reasons I gave previously, I remain resolved to avoid mixing up my main responsibility with general political work in this respect.
Madam President, having heard the debate, I would like to draw your attention to a fact: following the terrorist action by Chechen rebels, 120 hostages have died, but also 50 terrorists.
I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that no section of the press has spoken about this, which is very serious, because it is an offence against democratic and human co-existence - whether or not they are terrorists - and also to the fact that there has been no mention in this House of this action, which was outrageously barbaric.
That is how the judicial system works, and Lord Bethell can be certain that the Danish legal system functions in accordance with all the principles that we uphold in this Union.
In conjunction with this debate, I have received six motions for resolutions, which were submitted in accordance with Rule 37.2 of the Rules of Procedure The next item is the statement by the Council and the Commission on the consequences of the parliamentary elections in Pakistan for the signing of a trade and cooperation agreement.
The coup was later approved by the Pakistan Supreme Court provided that Pakistan re-established democracy within three years of the military coup, that is, by 12 October this year.
On 14 August last year, General Musharraf published his so-called 'Road Map To Democracy', which described how he proposed to comply with the decision of the Pakistan Supreme Court and restore democracy in Pakistan.
As Mr Cushnahan has remarked in his report on the election monitoring, there are a number of things in connection with the election in Pakistan that one might have wished had been different.
There were unequal opportunities to conduct election campaigns and unequal access to resources and to the media, and there were reports of manipulation in connection with the elections.
Nonetheless, it is the Council's assessment that the holding of the elections was an important step along the way towards the restoration of democracy in Pakistan.
The transfer of executive power to the future prime minister is expected to take place in the course of this month.
Also on the positive side is the fact that the President has implemented a number of reforms aimed at re-establishing the economy and combating corruption.
This finally took place on 16 November.
The extensive negotiations among political parties demonstrate that a revitalised democratic process has been initiated following the elections.
The Commission appreciates that the mission was able to carry out its task in full compliance with internationally accepted criteria used for election observation.
Let me also take this opportunity to express the Commission's satisfaction with the cooperation with the European Parliament in the observation of the election in Pakistan.
The Commission and Parliament have developed very good working relations in the field of election observation in general.
The Commission believes that the presence of the EU election observation mission has served to enhance the democratic process in Pakistan.
The Commission is also prepared to look into possible follow-up activities on the basis of its report.
The criticism made in Pakistan that the mission was exceeding its mandate because it arrived too early and interfered with the internal affairs of the country by analysing the overall election framework is therefore groundless.
As far as the new cooperation agreement between the European Community and Pakistan is concerned, the Commission would like to recall that exceptional circumstances in the region called for a response commensurate to the risk President Musharraf took in siding with the international community on Afghanistan.
The reasons why it is important for the EU and the Commission to engage Pakistan in an enhanced political dialogue are well known.
They include the fight against terrorism, Pakistan's difficult relations with India, the need for stability in neighbouring Afghanistan, Pakistan's deep-rooted economic and social problems and, last but not least, the continuing transition to democracy.
The Commission is aware that continuing uncertainty over the role and functioning of political institutions in Pakistan means that we need to monitor closely whether there is genuine progress on the transfer of power to the elected parliament in the coming weeks and months.
Ratification of the new cooperation agreement would allow us to re-establish the full cooperation dialogue with the new government.
Secondly, I would like to thank the EU Commission personnel involved in election observation.
This information was officially reaffirmed in a démarche to the Danish Presidency six weeks after we arrived in Pakistan.
As you and the Commissioner have said, they worked in a particularly sensitive political and security environment at great personal risk to themselves.
Yet within four days of our preliminary report being published in Islamabad you effectively distanced yourself from our conclusions that it was a seriously flawed process.
I and members of my core team also briefed heads of mission in Islamabad on a weekly basis.
I would also like to take the opportunity to refute the untrue allegation made by the Pakistan ambassador in Washington that the EU/EOM leaked an interim briefing report.
In fact this was leaked by an Islamabad-based diplomat for a Member State government, who was in Europe at the time, and was designed to undermine the work of the EU/EOM.
Your failure to endorse the conclusions of the EU/EOM and other observer groups such as ANFREL, NDI and the Commonwealth, compounds your predecessor's mistake in failing to criticise the farcical presidential referendum and is directly responsible for encouraging the Government of Pakistan to behave as it does.
Let me remind you that in your own Presidency programme, you set yourself the twin tasks of 'increased effectiveness and greater openness in the field of human rights'.
But worst of all, tailoring your response for geopolitical reasons was a total betrayal of the principles underlying election observation, which is designed to enhance democratisation and human rights.
Madam President, I should like to get straight to the point: although today's discussion should remain focused on the issue of the recent elections in Pakistan, it is clearly a time to assess the entire process of transition to democracy in that major south Asian country.
It is also clear that, now more than ever, international relations at various levels, including the economic and commercial levels, must involve honouring commitments that have been given and the careful management of expectations.
We also know that it is impossible to speak of consolidated democracy whilst the military is interfering in the political arena; but we also know from various examples in southern European and Latin American countries, that it is possible to start a process of transition to democracy by making a pact with civilian political representatives, provided that the various phases and arrangements agreed on are respected.
It is precisely the respect for these requirements that, in the period of transition to democracy, provides the necessary if insufficient legitimacy for the military to continue in some political role.
In August 2001, the Pakistani president announced the road map for democracy, which included the elections due to take place on 10 October.
We do not wish to issue any kind of judgment on the process of transition to democracy in Pakistan but we can say that this a poor way of promoting it and we hope that the elected members will have the clear-mindedness, the political ability and the courage necessary to lead a new phase of genuine transition to a democratic political power.
I agree that President Musharraf took over in a coup.
The French president, for instance, can dissolve parliament.
The fact that many who oppose President Musharraf were elected surely speaks for itself.
President Musharraf actually met his commitment - as the Council said - to hold these elections.
Madam President, I believe we should always pay great attention to our behaviour and political actions towards the countries with which we have relations and agreements in matters of cooperation and aid.
We know that democracy is measured not just on election day but on the basis of effective grass-roots participation, civil liberties, equal opportunities, justice and development.
I also think it will be extremely difficult to eradicate corruption and poverty, which goes hand in hand with its defeat, and I say so because I myself come from a country that is not poor but where there is still, in actual fact, a lot of corruption.
Pakistan is now a nuclear power that is even engaging in trade in nuclear technology, if you include North Korea.
The war in Afghanistan was pretty much an acid test for Pakistan, and I believe that it was only the current regime, the Musharraf regime, that made the anti-terror coalition possible in Pakistan at all.
Unfortunately, the anti-terror strategy has meant encroaching upon human rights and slowing down the process of democratisation in Pakistan, as has regrettably been the case in many other countries as well.
For its part - and in saying this I am simply describing the situation and not wishing to be judgmental - the Musharraf regime is essentially a consequence of the fact that there was previously a string of corrupt governments.
Madam President, this afternoon we have heard three very important statements on the core issue of this particular debate - one by the Council, one by the Commission and one by the chief observer on the European Union mission, who was officially representing the three institutions during the election itself.
I am particularly pleased and happy with the statement made by the Commission.
I very carefully note the balance and the content and I say to the Commission representative here this afternoon that it is a statement that is exceptionally relevant to the situation that developed.
His statement is totally irrelevant to the true situation that emerged.
It is most regrettable that the Council described the situation in this way.
The general took over in a coup.
Now we have the chief observer on behalf of the European Union being somewhat rubbished by a statement from the Council, which was excellent in its artful dodging and with no reference to the serious flaws in the electoral process, just a bland reference to the reports of manipulation.
Madam President, I believe that in this debate we must distinguish between two things, as the representative of the Commission has said.
Firstly, the genuinely exceptional circumstances in Pakistan and the strategic role it plays in relation to stability in Afghanistan, to the international coalition against terrorism and to the stability of all the countries of Central Asia.
However, on the other hand, I do not believe that this fact bears any relation to the internal situation in that country, to the increase in Islamic fundamentalism, the interests and people, our allies, who are being attacked in Afghanistan and the human rights situation in the country.
Madam President, Pakistan, the world's seventh largest country with 140 million inhabitants, has, since 12 October 1999, been controlled by a military regime under General Musharraf.
The eyes of the world have of course been on Pakistan since the General promised to hold elections within three years of the military coup to restore democracy and civil rule in the country.
A tiny, tiny part of this promise has been kept: elections have been held.
Thirdly, after the election in the form of a clear unwillingness to hand over power to those elected.
The only path that can lead to better standards of living for the people of Pakistan involves democracy, changing from military rule to civil rule and opportunities for a democratically elected government to implement reforms in the areas of education and employment.
We must also stress the importance of the work on restoring democracy in Pakistan continuing.
I therefore support Mr Cushnahan's statement here today.
But I think it is important to establish - for the sake of future election observers as well - that the EU's observers act entirely independently of the Council.
I have mentioned five major points of criticism here, but at the same time in such a crisis-ridden region of the world there is a need for the Council to attempt to find something to hold on to in terms of a little bit of progress which can provide a hope of peace and which at any rate provides a hope of avoiding war.
What has been achieved and contributed in this case certainly adds to our track record.
However, it is important not to confuse the task of election observation with handling the relationship in general, the overall agenda vis-à-vis the country in question.
We talk more about democratisation than democracy.
Working constructively and consistently on the situation as a whole is a better way of dealing with the problems than dwelling too much on the pure and perfect principles of democracy.
What we are trying to achieve through the agreement is a contribution to the process of democratisation, to the promotion of economic development and progress.
The best way to eradicate terrorism is to restore democracy, rather than turning a blind eye to a military regime that is abusing democracy, wants to retain power and does not want to return it to a civilian administration.
Mr President, I agree, but I also agree with the last sentence in the summary of your report, the so-called preliminary statement of 12 October.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Council has been asked to make a statement on the subject of social dialogue and the tripartite social summit.
The Council is fully in agreement with Parliament's positive assessment of the significance of the European social dialogue and notes the good progress and the encouraging results that have been achieved in connection with the informal summits to date, despite the lack of a formalised institutional framework for these meetings.
The parties stated in the declaration of the European Council in Laeken that the Standing Committee on Employment was not living up to its aims and that the parties would like to see the committee replaced by an established practice of holding tripartite social summits.
The Laeken European Council and the Barcelona European Council concluded that such a social summit should be held prior to each spring summit.
On 26 June this year the Commission submitted a proposal for a decision by the Council on the establishment of a tripartite social summit together with the abolition of the Standing Committee on Employment.
The Presidency wishes to work towards a position being taken at the Council summit on 3 December on how the efforts towards establishing the social summit are to continue.
The issue of consultation with Parliament has not yet been discussed by the Council.
I would like to end by thanking Parliament for having raised the issue of social dialogue and the tripartite social summit.
Indeed, it provides a good opportunity to discuss various aspects of this important issue.
Mr President, as the President-in-Office has already said, the Commission has presented a proposal for this tripartite social summit for growth and employment by means of a Council decision.
This proposal was not isolated; it was within the framework of the need to change and modernise the European social dialogue.
The aim of this proposal is to formalise the social dialogue summits held in Stockholm in March 2001 and Barcelona in March 2002.
There is nothing to stop us from holding another informal meeting but, as the President-in-Office has already said, it is very important to formalise this tripartite social summit, because the social partners agreed to it at the European Summit at Laeken.
In any case, it will be a summit on growth and employment and it will replace the existing Standing Committee on Employment.
This forum will play a very important role as far as the implementation of the Lisbon process is concerned, because it is the proper forum for the social partners to submit their proposals and their common agenda for the implementation of the Lisbon strategy.
The Commission chose Article 202 as the legal basis for the establishment of the tripartite social summit, since that was the legal basis for the Standing Committee on Employment.
Although there is no provision for consultation of the European Parliament under that article, the Commission anticipated in its proposal that Parliament would be consulted on the introduction of a tripartite social summit because it is a very sensitive and important issue.
As I have already said, this view is strongly endorsed by the European interprofessional social partners.
It will ensure greater consistency between the different dialogues in which the social partners are involved.
We held informal discussions in the Council and a large majority of Member States agreed on this issue.
We believe we will overcome some of the problems - legal or not - which exist in some Member States.
I hope that this proposal will receive political support in the Social Affairs Council on 3 December, which would allow it to be adopted at the General Affairs and External Relations Council on 9 and 10 December, so that we can have a formal tripartite social summit during the Greek Presidency.
The Commission is making reference to Article 202; the Council evidently does not agree with this, because it is deliberating about it.
As coordinators of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs we have also spoken about it and it is our view that if things go on this way we shall have to seriously consider going to the European Court of Justice, because the rights of the European Parliament are being violated.
I also think, Commissioner, that even if Article 202 is used as a basis, you are not applying the Article correctly.
It is of course possible to use a different legal basis, but I am sure that it will be extraordinarily difficult for the Council and the Commission to find a legal basis where no opinion from the European Parliament is required.
That is the message I would like to give the Council and the Commission in their future deliberations.
If you indeed proceed to act on the basis of Article 202, should the costs of this operation not be covered by the Council rather than the Commission, as has been the case to date?
I would also like to thank the Commissioner for her clear statement about the arrangements for the tripartite social summit, and to thank the Danish Presidency for attempting to accommodate us.
What I do not understand as the nominated rapporteur, however, is that at a moment when we are anxious to tackle employment policy and growth in an active way, we are wasting time.
The intention was to begin making arrangements for this standing tripartite social summit now, before the spring summit, so that the social partners could start work straight away.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has virtually been neutralised - we do not have an appropriate mechanism here.
One more point: today we stand on the threshold of the enlargement of the European Union.
I have discussed these issues with many partner states and they all want a properly functioning mechanism in this field, and one that would help all the new Member States.
I do not need to use all my speaking time; I have already expressed my indignation about the fact that Article 202 is constantly referred to as a soft option.
I hope that 3 December will be a productive day in this area.
Mr President, the ELDR Group fully endorses the argument that Parliament has a right to be heard.
The way in which trade unions and employers' organisations are organised varies considerably from one country to another, as does the manner and extent of collective bargaining.
The development of employers' organisations is recent and sporadic and their activities are not always coordinated.
Where confederations of trade unions and employers' organisations exist, they vary in the extent to which they participate in their equivalents at European level.
Its work is of major importance, since cooperation between the authorities, trade unions and employers' organisations is vital for economic and social development and thus for increased employment.
As the Danish Presidency has recently said, tripartite cooperation and the social dialogue need to be strengthened if the new Member States are to be able to participate in the work on equal terms with all the other Member States.
Mr President, I should like to say the following: this Council position on social dialogue is contradictory.
The Commissioner has already provided important information, for which I thank her and which allows us to draw this conclusion.
I would emphasise the case of Portugal, with which, being Portuguese, I am most familiar.
Mr President, the Council's answers to our questions this afternoon have been clear, albeit not as full as many of us would have liked.
Parliament is beginning to feel a sense of urgency about the need to give greater coherence to the work of the social partners.
As has been said, this becomes crucial as we look towards enlargement.
We are also aware that there are many areas where such consultation is already being advocated, in the temporary agency work directive for example, and in a whole range of other areas relating to family-friendly work, quality of work, modernisation of work, organisation, active ageing policies and so on.
So we are also hoping that this new approach will be able to look at the qualitative aspects of growth and employment, which are all too often forgotten, and the social repercussions as a whole.
As far as the role of the European Parliament is concerned, we are beginning to find an increasing number of forms and areas of cooperation in which Parliament is not fully involved.
Some of them seem to be starting early in looking at issues such as the tripartite summit and Parliament's involvement there.
I am thinking of the coordination of social security for third country nationals.
In brief, I can say that the Commission proposes to use Article 202 as the legal basis.
The Legal Service of the Council is however of the opinion that this provision cannot be used because it does not give the Council unrestricted decision-making competence.
And when the Commission proposes that the summit should consist of the Council's presidency at Head of State and Government level, the Council's Legal Service believes that the Council (employment, social policy and health and consumer protection) is not able to make a decision on the introduction of a summit at Head of State and Government level.
Neither does the Council's Legal Service agree with the Commission's proposal that the results of the summit - which is to take place the day before the European Council - are to be presented to the European Council in the form of a report.
Moreover, Article 2 sets out time periods for drawing up the provisional agenda of the European Council and the submission of contributions to the discussions and these time periods are not complied with under the proposal.
Sometimes you want to ask the lawyers if they cannot try to reach agreement before letting us politicians know, but that is probably easier said than done.
Perhaps the Treaty basis is not always equally clear, in which case we have to find a political solution which allows us to do what we want to without it being claimed that we are breaking the rules which form the basis of our work.
I simply felt that I had a duty to state the reasons why the Council is not yet ready to start a formal dialogue as requested.
Mr President, the Council was quite convincing.
The question is why the Commission proposed this.
I would ask the Commissioner whether it is feasible for the Commission to propose another legal basis.
Mr President, the reason the Commission has chosen Article 202 is that this is the basis used for the Standing Committee on Employment and it has worked for many years.
We believe that these can be overcome with cooperation between the Councils, if from the Employment Council we go to the General Affairs Council and a final paragraph is inserted into the conclusions of the General Affairs Council.
I completely agree that, with political will, we can overcome these problems.
Since I have the opportunity, I would like to say a few words on the participation of the applicant countries.
These countries will, of course, become members of the European partners, the ETUC and UNICE, and they will participate in the social summit through their European institutions and organisations.
In any case, we are working closely with governments and social partners in all the applicant countries because some of them are having to start from scratch and there are great problems with the functioning of social dialogue.
I greatly appreciate being given the opportunity to give an account of the Council's proposal to the European Parliament so that we can have a constructive and open dialogue between the Council and the European Parliament on this important subject.
The European Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has raised some issues concerning the restructured FSPG and the European Parliament's participation in the discussions on policy in the financial sector.
I hope that these issues can be resolved before the report is adopted by the Ecofin Council on 3 December.
The financial markets are playing an increasingly great role in Europe's economy.
They are an important factor in the creation of growth and employment, and financial integration in the EU and the realisation of a single market for financial services will make a substantial contribution to increased prosperity.
A report published last week by the Commission shows that full financial integration in the EU will in the long term increase the EU's GNP by 1.1%.
Increased financial integration, however, also creates a need for improved cooperation on financial supervision in the EU and greater vigilance as regards financial stability.
The development of the financial markets in recent years has underlined these needs.
The Ecofin Council therefore wishes to extend the structure for financial legislation, supervision and stability in the securities market on which the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission agreed in February this year to cover all financial services.
The interinstitutional agreements that were entered into in connection with the securities markets will naturally also apply in the extended structure.
And the monitoring of financial stability in the EU will be similarly strengthened.
Secondly, the circumstances which gave rise to the introduction of the Lamfalussy procedure in the securities sector are also present in the banking and insurance sectors.
The way in which rules are formed at present is inflexible, slow and ponderous - and I am fully aware that the Council can also be a delaying factor in the present process.
The common rules are also implemented differently in the various Member States.
The financial sector as a whole is developing fast, and rapid and effective cooperation on legislation and supervision is just as necessary for the other sectors as was the case for the securities markets.
Initiatives for new directives such as the implementation of capital adequacy rules in the area of banking and the Solvency II rules in the area of insurance will require certain detailed technical regulations and it is therefore appropriate to apply a more effective legislative procedure in this area, such as that used in the securities market.
The new structure also paves the way for drawing a better distinction between the heart of the matter, that is to say, what is politically central, and what can be left to implementing decisions that can be adjusted on an ongoing basis in line with changing market conditions.
Although the Commission is not expected to produce its proposal on Basle II until spring 2004, it would nonetheless be useful for the new structure to be in place at an early stage.
Thirdly, the new structure is necessary in order to secure efficiency in connection with the EU's forthcoming enlargement.
The new structure will be more serviceable and effective in an EU with 25 Member States.
The structure from the securities market provides a suitable model here.
It creates a permanent and clear structure for cooperation across the various supervisory committees as well as for the relationship between supervisory committees and the 'level 2' committees.
The political and technical discussions will initially take place in separate fora, allowing the process to take place more quickly because work can be carried on at a technical level in parallel.
Greater openness and commitment will be created in respect of the financial sectors in many countries and the implementation of the rules contained in the individual directives in the individual states will be more uniform, creating a basis for more uniform supervision.
And finally, it will create a greater correlation between the rules in the individual parts of the financial sector.
As a starting point, I imagine regular meetings between the chairman of the restructured FSPG, the Commission and the European Parliament in order to strengthen the dialogue on the main policy guidelines for financial services.
However, a rejuvenation of the 2005 Group is also feasible if this is preferable; this is, after all, mentioned in the European Parliament's decision on this issue.
Rather, the restructured FSPG would provide an overview and advise the Council and the Commission.
This will be shown in the final report which is to be adopted on 3 December.
As is well known, the Council cannot, as an institution, make decisions that impose obligations on the Convention or the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference.
That is solely a matter for the Member States, which will define their own positions in the Convention and at the Intergovernmental Conference.
As president of the Ecofin Council I can assure you that I both can and will encourage my colleagues to make their Heads of State and Government aware of the importance of this topic and at the same time call upon them to deliberate and discuss this issue during their preparations for the Intergovernmental Conference.
We in the Council are aware that the role of the European Parliament must be respected.
In conclusion, I would like to express my hope that the European Parliament's final position on this issue will take account of the actual opportunities open to the Council and the assurance of goodwill that I have given the European Parliament today.
The Commission supports the Council in extending the Lamfalussy arrangements, fully respecting all aspects of our arrangements with parliaments and our agreement with this House.
One of our aims is to encourage the convergence of regulatory structures which, for securities, is now beginning to happen.
But we still have to prepare, in time, for the decisions ahead, not least because we need time to put in place the framework and the structures to extend Lamfalussy.
We must also take into account the need to establish efficient decision-taking structures before enlargement.
We should not wait, therefore, until the year 2006 and beyond.
The EFC's proposals have benefited significantly from the input of my services.
In particular they respect existing interinstitutional political and legal agreements and the prerogatives of this Parliament.
We have insisted on this throughout, as well as urging that the proposal should be submitted to public consultation.
The FSPG will have a forward-looking prospective and strategic role but the Commission's right of initiative and indeed its role in the comitology procedure will not be compromised.
That is explicitly stated in the EFC's report.
But I should also like to note that the role of the FSPG is to advise the Council and the Commission.
However, we have the 2005 Group - the President of the Council referred to that - within which the three institutions could regularly discuss strategic issues.
I have also noted Parliament's call for a clear and unequivocal commitment to reform Article 202 of the Treaty.
It is also in the Commission's governance White Paper, in the Commission's communication on better regulation and in the Commission's contribution to the Convention, its communication of 22 May entitled 'a project for the European Union'.
The Commission will shortly come forward, probably on 4 December, with its communication on institutional architecture.
The content of that is yet to be finalised but I can say that we believe that both branches of the legislature - the Council and Parliament - must in future be treated in an equal manner as regards control of the Commission and the whole comitology process.
They cannot give their approval in advance of an Intergovernmental Conference that will not start until 2004.
It concentrates on the key developments in the financial sector such as the supervision of conglomerates, the globalisation of financial sector issues and responses to shortcomings in the American regulatory approach.
Let me mention four of them: firstly, a dialogue with associations representing the financial and consumer sectors; secondly, a dialogue with the United States; thirdly, sound regulatory and supervisory principles for the relevant authorities in the candidate countries; fourthly, impact assessments for new legislative proposals.
I am pleased to note that the report is supportive of the Commission in a number of areas.
Mr President, at the end of last week the Dutch Finance Minister announced measures to restore confidence in the financial markets.
While we at EU level are busy integrating the financial markets under the inspiring leadership of Commissioner Bolkestein, the capitals are, in my view, overlooking the fact that a great deal of what goes on in the financial markets transcends the borders of Member States and also transcends the borders of sectors.
That is what struck me in this debate and I believe that as politicians we are duty-bound to react adequately to the new risks that are presenting themselves.
I have deliberately chosen not to give a blueprint of what an ideal situation might be, which would then have to be imposed top down, but to work mainly on the basis of current practice to lay the emphasis not on the interinstitutional debate, but in fact on the quality and the effectiveness of the implementation of supervision at the moment.
What has struck me is that the debate in Brussels, and I am referring in particular here to the EFC report and the discussion in the ECOFIN council, has been about the institutional setting and the mutual balance of power instead of about strengthening structural cooperation and coordination at European level.
Another point of criticism is that the discussion within the Council and within the EFC has for the most part taken place behind closed doors, without any national parliamentary involvement.
There is currently no provision for this in the Treaty, either for the ECB, nor for other possible regulators that we might imagine at European level.
I hope that he has since given it some more thought and can now be rather more positive about it, because that is precisely what we have missed with the Lamfalussy procedure, namely that this has been considered in advance and that you must also make conditions for it.
Finally, a word about this Lamfalussy procedure.
Firstly, we are very much in favour of a swifter, more flexible and more transparent procedure.
That is why we are also in favour of the objectives of the Lamfalussy procedure.
Parliament presented its report in nine months, whereas the Council took twenty-six.
Furthermore, I admit to having some concerns that the Lamfalussy/von Wogau procedure was only ever regarded as an interim measure, a transitional solution, and never as the end product.
We support the motion for a resolution adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
We expect the Commission to take this point on board in view of the statements made by President Prodi and Commissioner Bolkestein in the 'shopping list' presented to the convention.
We also call upon the Heads of State and Government to make a declaration of intent at the summit in Copenhagen.
We also welcome the van den Burg report, and not only because some of my own amendments were adopted!
A majority of us will be voting in favour of this report.
We are therefore also advocating that the Ministers for Economic and Financial Affairs and the national supervisory authorities should be called upon to arrange a comprehensive dialogue with all the relevant actors on an integrated European supervisory system, taking account of the role of national supervisory systems and the responsibilities of the ECB.
This is not about setting the EU and the Member States against each other, but about an integrated supervisory system suitable for a new internal market in financial products.
Mr President, I would like to emphasise very strongly that the van den Burg report has come before Parliament at exactly the right moment, because this debate on supervision in Europe is one we need to have.
I say that because we need to develop a common approach, we need to learn from our experience, and we need above all to endeavour to keep this debate free of any dogmatic or ideological attitude towards a single position.
That is why I believe that this report provides us with a good basis for the dialogue with the other institutions.
I would now like to concentrate on the problems we face in connection with extending the Lamfalussy procedure, as what we are chiefly dealing with here is regulation.
We must, however, constantly ask ourselves whether the process selected will help to contribute to that stability.
You know as well as I do that the first Lamfalussy directive, on market abuse, is still a long way from being transposed and that the second one is still waiting for a common position.
That is why, Mr President-in-Office, I am expecting the Finance Council, and also the European Council in Copenhagen, to agree upon a political declaration on the need for a treaty amendment in relation to secondary legislation, in relation to Parliament's will as regards enablement, and also in relation to the right of call back, and that they will work to achieve this, not forgetting all the legal implications which are bound to flow from this.
This is a core issue for the future of this parliamentary democracy, which at the end of the day we all wish to achieve through the convention and through the 2004 Intergovernmental Conference.
This group is in favour of extending the Lamfalussy procedure to banking and insurance.
You have only to see the detail of the decisions being taken in Basle on banks' capital adequacy to realise that it would be a nonsense to incorporate them into primary legislation.
Our American counterparts have already allowed the introduction of all the Basle decisions by secondary legislation and to delay unnecessarily would put European banks at a competitive disadvantage.
However, the Council of Ministers sometimes seems to have forgotten two important things.
If our democratic role in monitoring is to be effective, Article 202 of the Treaty must reflect codecision over implementing committees, otherwise there will be always be a bias in this House against the delegation of powers that are necessary to deal with some extremely technical matters.
For the sake of good governance and democratic oversight, the Member States should commit themselves - whether in a Council declaration or elsewhere - to a revision of Article 202, which not only introduces equivalent powers for Parliament and for the Council but also ensures there is proper oversight by this House and by the Council.
Mr President, following the fall and the serious functional problems of the world financial markets, it is essential to establish stronger European regulations and joint prudential supervision.
The procedure rests on the distinction between framework legislation and secondary legislation.
In principle, this is justified, but is does pose a fundamental problem for the exercise of democracy.
Along with my colleagues, I therefore call for Article 202 of the Treaties to be reformed.
The quality of consultation is another problem that concerns democratic control.
On the whole, I welcome the principle of the Lamfalussy procedure, but I hope the process will be improved before it is in any way extended.
I believe I am right in thinking that the Council has already ratified the selection of Ecofin Council.
It also proposes defining the role of the European Central Bank, which has an essential role as a lender of last resort.
When the fundamental rules and standards protecting the general interest of the people of Europe are at issue, the issue of democratic control should figure more prominently.
The debate about enlargement and its consequences for existing and new legislation makes us aware of the differences that exist, alongside many similarities, between the Member States and the candidate countries.
There is a major difference in the area of the social market economy and the independent supervision of its performance.
A social market economy in good working order is one of the conditions for accession of the candidate countries to the European Union.
There is no precise description of what a social market economy in good working order is.
What is apparent though is that our own market economy is not yet performing to optimum effect.
I should therefore like to ask Commissioner Bolkestein how he thinks independent supervision in the accession countries can be adequately achieved.
Of course, the cases mentioned most often in the report - Enron and WorldCom, and Vivendi and others in other respects - force us to reflect on the effectiveness of the systems that protect the interests of savers and, in more general terms, market operators, not least in order to satisfy the interest of European consumers, users and investors.
It is good there has been an Enron scandal, not so much because of the new laws that have resulted and will result from it, but because the scandal has made investors and pension funds more aware of the need for supervision.
Just as much prudence is needed, I believe (and the report gives a very well-balanced definition in this regard) when citing new rules as a panacea for the ills or difficulties that the markets may encounter, especially if public control is mentioned.
I shall conclude by mentioning a more specific point concerning the integration of the financial markets.
I think keeping prudential and credit supervision at a national level, that is in the central banks, is more and more questionable, especially when - as is the case in Italy - the same institution, the central bank, not only deals with prudential supervision but also takes on antitrust functions in the credit market, thus creating a conflict of interests that does not encourage market efficiency.
Mr President, I support the extension of the Lamfalussy procedure in principle and I hope the interinstitutional difficulties can be resolved as soon as possible, so we can move forward and modernise decision-making structures in relation to banking, insurance and financial conglomerates.
All the institutions need to work together to make this possible and I hope in particular that the Council will be able to make a declaration signalling its willingness to review Article 202 in 2004.
On the issue of a single pan-European supervisor, we have some divergence of views within our group.
Some of us in the British Conservatives would rule it out in principle, others within the PPE-DE Group would like to keep the option open as a very long-term possibility.
The concentration of power in, for example, the UK's Financial Services Authority, is very daunting in itself.
An effective regulator must be close to and must understand the markets it regulates.
A single enforcer for financial services in the EU would have an impossible job, given the divergence of rules and legal systems across the EU.
There is so much other work to be done to create a single market in financial services and to really deliver those benefits that the Commission report talked about only a few days ago.
EU decision-makers should accept that a centralised solution is not always the best solution.
Mr President, Commissioner, there is support for an integrated financial market in Europe, and to this end we must draft appropriate rules speedily and in line with the interests of the market and implement them in Parliament.
A great many questions and outright criticism can still be heard from various sectors of the market.
Here, CESR should wait and see what Parliament and the Council decide before it embarks on its work.
However, with regard to the technical details, we should not overlook the fact - and Basle II has already been mentioned - that there is of course political potential here too: there is conflict potential which will only become apparent over the course of time.
There are constant calls to Parliament to the effect that the interests of the market demand fast legislation.
This is why Copenhagen will be a good opportunity to send out a clear signal on Article 202.
The same applies - and I endorse Commissioner Bolkestein's comments on this point - to the future role of the Commission.
Mr President, to outside observers, this afternoon's two issues could seem too esoteric and technical, but, as various speakers have pointed out, these are issues which are affecting the lives of the citizens and, at the moment, as a result of the great international scandals, they are affecting consumers.
It affects their pensions and the future of their savings.
We are currently trying to create pan-European financial services, which transcend the borders of Europe.
We are concerned to guarantee our companies the greatest possible freedom and the greatest possible opportunity to act within Europe, but, unless we establish a pan-European system of monitoring, so that the operation of these companies is controlled, we run the risk of the kind of frauds and scandals currently taking place on an exclusively national level taking place throughout the European Union.
I believe that a system of liberalising financial services throughout the Community is inconceivable unless it is accompanied by a system of monitoring financial activities throughout the Community.
Democracy means 'people's government', and this is only possible by means of parliamentary representation - in Greece direct democracy was possible because all the citizens met in a public square.
The attempt to replace democracy with a system of public consultation, without recourse to the ballot box, by means of computers or public consultations for example - as Commissioner Bolkestein said - is deceitful.
The only consultation there is room for today is a public consultation by means of the ballot box and by means of legally elected representatives.
It is true that there is an execution phase and a delegation phase, and that it could be argued that, since the execution falls to the Governments of the Member States, Parliament should get involved in this phase, which is outside the actual activity of control.
But, in the legislative field, if we speak for example of delegated rules, I cannot see that it is possible to follow the Lamfalussy procedure unless we establish clear participation by Parliament, by means of the so-called call-back measures.
But democracy cannot consist of participation - for example - by companies, in arbitrary fora, in consultations of a particular nature.
This Parliament's operating system can be improved, the parliamentary structures can be changed in the new constitution, but anything other than the adoption of legislation by means of an instrument elected by the people, with a normal electoral procedure, would be deceitful and would be a way to put decisions into the hands, perhaps, of the very people who would then act as predators to the detriment of the consumers.
I believe that we must strengthen our monitoring procedure, strengthen our mechanisms and make them as flexible as possible, and this should be done by means of parliamentary participation throughout the legislative process, from top to bottom.
Mr President, like many of my colleagues I am pleased to note that the recommendations in the report by Baron Lamfalussy have been implemented.
There is certainly a need to extend them to other financial sectors and to include appropriate provisions in the Treaty for this.
But before taking this step, a proper assessment must be made of these measures in the light of experience.
The Lamfalussy procedure should also be taken into account in the national development of the financial services sector.
We also need more transatlantic dialogue in the financial services sector at a legislative level.
That is very important.
If it were to be decided that we need a supranational financial supervision authority, that possibility needs to be provided for in the Treaty after the Convention at the next IGC.
It is perhaps one advantage of the market slump that we have at the moment that we can use this opportunity to introduce the kind of regulation that will stand us in good stead when euphoria takes over in the financial markets again, as it inevitably will.
One can ask whether the down-turn would have been as steep had we not had wave after wave of revelations about the lack of internal controls and external oversight.
I am not arguing in favour of heavy-handed regulation nor for regulation that goes against the spirit of the internal market or the financial services action plan.
I am quite sure that the vast majority of Parliamentarians are in favour of creating a single market in financial services in Europe, as we have shown over the past couple of years in the various positions adopted on financial services action plan legislation.
I do not see that the Securities and Exchange Commission has done any harm in the United States.
There is much evidence, including the Gyllenhammar report, supporting the benefits of a unified financial market and showing that the integration of the financial services market in Europe would bring substantial economic benefits.
Anything that would prop up the investment process in our economy is bound to bring financial benefits because we are so weak in this area.
According to the report, gains could be in the region of at least half a percentage point per annum in additional economic growth.
One could also call upon the evidence of the results of the new survey published only last week by the Commission, which suggested that total European employment could increase by half a percentage point over the next decade as a result of financial markets integration.
One must accept that increased integration increases the responsibilities of the European institutions to actually discover the best form of regulation, to consult as thoroughly as possible, to implement and interpret legislation as consistently as possible and, when problems arise, to be flexible.
Lack of initial consultation over the draft market abuse directive and last minute changes to the draft of the investment services directive are not good signs.
We must have time and the proper analysis of how the process has been functioning.
The institutional monitoring group on the Lamfalussy procedure has not yet produced their first report.
Under these circumstances I am against any hurried extension of the Lamfalussy procedure.
Mr President, I must say that the interesting views and observations that I have just heard have convinced me that the European Parliament and the Council have a common interest in resolving the issue of expansion of the Lamfalussy procedure.
I see too that note has been taken of the Commission's report on the growth opportunities in the financial sphere through the introduction of the new structures, the inference being that we can contribute to growth and employment.
The Council and Parliament have a common responsibility in respect of the major problems that we see in the Member States in these areas.
On this point, I must not have expressed myself clearly, because unitary supervision is precisely what I am not advocating.
We each have our own responsibilities to deal with, whether we are elected to the European Parliament or elected in national parliaments and are members of a government.
Moreover, it would be a poor principle if the Ecofin Council had those powers.
I would simply call upon you to take account in your statement of what the Ecofin Council is able to do and deliver and refer to the responsibility that we have to get the capital markets to work effectively so that we each make a contribution to growth and employment in Europe.
Many Members of this House have mentioned the matter of Article 202.
Having made these two points, perhaps I may go into further detail as to what the Members of Parliament have said.
She then mentioned the intriguing subject of the enabling clause, and whether there should not be an enabling clause in the Convention or IGC.
There is no obstacle, at least on the part of the ECB, to it doing this work.
The whole subject will have to be thoroughly considered in the years to come and the Lamfalussy procedure is essential for that particular point.
He calls the Lamfalussy procedure the Lamfalussy-von Wogau process.
He said that it is a temporary solution.
It seems to me that we should start relatively soon to prepare for the decisions ahead.
We must also take into account the need to advance so that we have efficient decision-making structures before enlargement.
He mentioned its temporary nature and pointed to the 'sunset clause'.
He is right to say that independent supervision in all candidate countries is of great importance.
Furthermore, we have been examining the systems and the organisations of the candidate countries with the supervisors of all Member States over the past four years with precisely that aim in mind.
We must realise they have come a long way and made quite considerable progress, even though not everything is as it should be in certain areas.
Therefore we must monitor the developments in the candidate countries because there is an essential need for an independent regulatory and supervisory agency there.
We have organised a programme of cooperation so that we can help candidate countries improve the quality of their supervision.
I have already spoken about that issue and, as far as the Commission is concerned, it will defer to Parliament and it can take a decision.
I have indeed heard some criticism and complaints about CESAR - I stress the word 'some' - which I have drawn attention to.
He has said that only democratically elected representatives should have the possibility of calling back implementing measures.
I myself will be visiting Washington in a few weeks' time and I intend to discuss these matters with the chairman or acting chairman of the securities exchange commission.
We cannot do without it, but those relations should be on the basis of reciprocity and mutual recognition.
This proposal aims to consolidate existing rules on additives in feedingstuffs and clarifies certain procedural aspects related to dossier evaluation and the types of authorisation granted to feed additives, thus making them more transparent for producers and consumers alike.
An aspect of fundamental political significance in this proposal is the ban from 2006 on the four antibiotic growth promoters that are still authorised.
In principle, I am in favour of the Commission's proposal.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, as the committee responsible, wants coccidiostats and histomonostats to continue to be authorised for use until 2008.
In Amendments Nos 4, 7 and 9, I speak out very clearly in favour of guidelines for the authorisation of feed additives.
As regards the ban from 2006 on the four antibiotic growth promoters, I would like to say to Commissioner Byrne that my Amendment No 31 offers a sensible compromise here.
This underlines the importance that Parliament attaches to the sensitive issue of animal nutrition in relation to human and animal health.
This issue is also a high priority for the Danish Presidency of the Council.
This proposal represents a major streamlining of the current rules on safety evaluation and marketing authorisations for feed additives.
The new rules will be much simpler and clearer.
We will have a clear and transparent authorisation procedure.
The new system also includes an in-built review and re-evaluation process so as to allow new scientific information to be taken into account.
The Commission announced its intention to phase out these remaining antibiotics in feedingstuffs in the White Paper on Food Safety.
This reflected scientific advice that the use of antibiotics as growth promoters is undesirable for human and animal health, owing to concerns about increased resistance of diseases to treatment with antibiotics.
The Scientific Steering Committee has also recommended the progressive replacement of the remaining four antibiotics by non-antimicrobial alternative products.
The Commission proposes to withdraw the authorisations for these four antibiotics on 1 January 2006.
With regard to coccidiostats - substances used to prevent coccidia infections - the proposal contains stricter rules for their authorisation and placing on the market.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert for her very practical report.
We are very concerned in Europe that consumers should be protected, and rightly so, but what is the Commission going to do to protect European consumers from imports of poultry that have probably been fed growth promoters?
The problem is that the poultry meat cannot be tested for growth promoters or, if it is, some time may have elapsed and the meat can no longer be tested for it.
We will find that European consumers are consuming meat from poultry produced in China and Thailand containing substances banned in Europe.
I would like to ask Commissioner Byrne how he is going to stop this problem arising.
Over recent years, we have played a very successful part in shaping EU legislation on animal feedingstuffs.
Let me remind you of some examples: the open declaration of feed ingredients, the establishment of a positive list, and the new regulations on the production and use of meal made from meat.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists supports much of what the rapporteur has just mentioned, such as the ban on antibiotics, etc.
She has done sterling work, and has been receptive to many of our proposals.
If we impose a general ban on antibiotics in animal nutrition, we cannot immediately make an exception for one product category.
My second point relates to the duration of authorisation.
The major issue in this report is a ban on the use of antibiotics as growth promoters in agricultural production.
The aim must be to abandon the use of coccidiostats, but that cannot be done at once as they cannot yet be replaced by vaccination.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive on additives for use in animal nutrition should be commended as a significant step forward for human health, animal health and the environment.
The practice was legalised in 1970 by Directive 70/524 EEC which at the time authorised the use of thirteen antibiotics as additives.
I recall that in 1985 the Swedish Parliament voted to ban the use of antibiotics as feed additives for this very reason, in other words, 17 years before the Commission's proposal!
Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert for her excellent work in this area.
This proposal is one of the measures provided for in the Commission's White Paper on Food Safety.
The current directive has been amended five times since 1970 and has never been consolidated.
We are amending or reviewing this directive in parallel with the veterinary medicines directive and they are related.
However, I would caution against moving too quickly from a food additive definition to a veterinary medicine definition until alternatives have been put in place and we are ready to cope with them.
There is one way to ensure peace of mind, not only for our farmers and poultry producers but also for consumers, and that is to increase the resources of the Food and Veterinary Office so that it can keep the situation under surveillance.
There is much I welcome in this report and I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Commissioner again.
I think that this is entirely in keeping with the White Paper on Food Safety.
I also agree with the ban on antibiotics in general in the year 2005.
I am told that if you were to do that, the next treatment of animals with antibiotics would have far more damaging consequences in general than if we were to leave things as they are.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the Commission for presenting this proposal on additives for use in animal nutrition to us, and I would also like to express my warmest thanks, and those of my colleagues, to our rapporteur for her outstanding report.
Let me stress that I am in favour of a central agency.
Allow me to explain my position on the major points of this proposal and in particular the differences which in some cases still remain between our institutions.
The scientific advice on which this risk management measure is taken mentions the need for a transitional period to allow for animal rearing practices to adapt and also for the development of alternative antibiotics.
For these practical reasons, I cannot accept the amendment which envisages the phasing out of antibiotics from 1 January 2005, despite my recognition of Parliament's desire to get rid of antibiotics in animal nutrition as soon as possible.
I agree with that sentiment but would add that this should be in accordance with scientific opinion and should take account of possible effects on animal health and welfare.
This testing system protects human health, since it is designed to reveal residues of medicines, additives and substances in food at levels that present an unacceptable risk to the consumer.
I believe that the control of imported products and the condition of equivalency between EU rules and third country rules on the rearing of animals should be considered under horizontal legislation.
That proposal will take account of your concerns.
The draft legislation we are discussing today aims only - and I stress only - to lay down rules for the authorisation of safe additives.
My position is that the rules imposed by this proposal will ensure that coccidiostats are used in a safe manner, respecting human and animal health.
Precipitate action, not allowing enough time for the authorisation of the same kind of substances as veterinary drugs, or the setting of a cut-off date without prior assessment, would have disastrous consequences for animal production, animal health and animal welfare.
Concerning the introduction of flexibility in the authorisation procedure, some amendments improve the Commission's proposal as they take account of the needs of minor species and non-food producing animals.
The setting of specific conditions for data protection when applying for authorisations for minor species is another welcome amendment.
The Commission can accept these amendments.
However, it is necessary to recognise the impossibility of making special rules for all types of additives and for all animal categories.
In conclusion, I would like again to thank the rapporteur and Members of Parliament for broadly supporting the policy initiated by the Commission which protects public health while taking proper account of animal health, animal welfare and agricultural production needs.
Parliament's Secretariat is being provided with a full list of the Commission's position on each of the amendments.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr Nisticò is a well-known expert in the field, but it has been quite a challenge for me and my services.
First and foremost, to guarantee a high level of health protection for European patients.
Secondly, to promote the Single Market for herbal medicines.
Thirdly, to create a clear and favourable environment for the mainly small and medium-sized companies working in this sector.
The use of herbal medicines is a long-standing tradition in Europe.
For new medicines, providing fresh scientific data is indispensable if patients are to be treated with safe medicines.
To protect the patient's health, the information on the product's traditional use must be reliable enough to enable us to conclude that the product is safe.
Such information exists for many traditional herbal medicines.
For that reason, the new procedure should initially be limited to herbal medicines.
I stress this because the effects of a medicine depend on the setting in which the product is used as well as on the product itself.
As a rule, therefore, the product should have been used for 30 years within the EU.
Finally, the new Scientific Committee.
Herbal medicines are different from other categories of pharmaceuticals in various respects.
For some years now, an informal working group has been working on herbal medicines at the European Medicines Evaluation Agency.
Our proposal offers an opportunity to establish an explicit legal basis for this working group and to give it a clear mandate for herbal medicinal products.
This will also allow us to rely on specific national expertise to ensure quality, safety and efficacy of herbal medicines on a European level.
I am looking forward to the debate in the House today and call on the European Parliament to support this initiative.
Mr President, Mr Liikanen, we are delighted that, at last, after so many years, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has adopted the proposal for a Commission directive on traditional herbal medicinal products, which I am pleased to see takes a responsible, scientific approach.
Thanks to the directive we are examining, it will, at last, be possible to register traditional medicinal herbs in the individual European Union Member States through a simplified procedure, provided that - as the Commissioner stated - they meet certain effectiveness and safety requirements.
The directive both recognises the full worth of medicinal products of plant origin and, at last, puts some order into a highly confused and controversial field.
In addition, for the sake of safeguarding consumer health, certain features of quality and good manufacturing practice are specified that must be complied with by both medicinal herbs produced in European Union Member States and those imported from third countries.
This is why Parliament and the Commission have attempted to ensure that the directive will be directed mainly at consumer health protection, both by requiring high quality and safety standards and by making it compulsory for labels and information leaflets to provide citizens with simple, clear information on the product's potential toxicity and possible interactions with other drugs and foodstuffs.
We draw the Commissioner's attention to the fact that, by traditional medicinal herbs we mean those that have been used for at least 30 years, at least ten years of which within the Community and 20 outside, as suggested by Parliament.
As a specialist in the area - I am a pharmacologist - I believe that ten years' use in Community Member States added to 20 years' use outside the Community is sufficient to assess any potential toxic effects.
Another positive aspect is the creation of a Committee for Herbal Medicinal Products at last.
For far too long, trade in these traditional products within the Community has been hampered by differences in the national provisions.
Let me touch upon two points which are, in my view, especially important.
In order to avoid distortions of competition - and I think this is especially important - the manufacturer, who has invested substantial sums in researching the effects of rational phytopharmaceuticals, should be permitted to draw attention to his special efforts as part of the registration process, thus benefiting consumers through the provision of better product information.
Mr President, I welcome this directive and Mr Nisticò's elegant improvement of its direction.
This directive allows the basic registration of traditional remedies.
It should be generous in its interpretation of how and where this traditional use established the safety requirements that are necessary.
Equally, the use of these products in combination with others, including drugs, requires scrupulous attention to the possible side-effects where they may occur.
The European Medical Control Agency has estimated that in the UK, for example, out of 207 notified substances, all but 2 or 3 would sail through the process of registration without the expensive proof required for chemicals.
When the Consumers' Association in Britain tested this out on a random sample of 30, only 5 were able to offer knowledge in terms of the recommendations they made.
In particular, I ask the House that if a herbal medicine has been used anywhere in the world for more than 30 years and there was clear evidence that its normal use is safe, then we should not deny it to the people we represent.
Another significant and additional benefit is that we will have real experts in herbal medicine on this committee, which is clearly essential.
The second positive element of the proposal is the amendment distinguishing between food supplements and medicines.
Finally, I would like to comment on the amendment proposed by Mr Davies.
Even in present-day medicine, despite the advent of modern pharmacology, herbal remedies still play an important role.
This encourages the consumer to make a well-informed choice of the kind which the European Parliament also wants other legislation to promote.
With this provision it will be easier for small businesses in particular to market regional products throughout Europe, so that all European citizens can benefit from regional products that have been proven to have therapeutic value.
Mr Nisticò has presented a very good report which creates broadly uniform provisions governing the manufacture, marketing and labelling of herbal medicinal products and sets high quality and safety standards.
In this context, the following points are especially important.
First of all, there is the issue of quality and safety.
We also need a new committee on herbal medicinal products within the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products.
This committee should take over responsibility for the full range of tasks relating to herbal medicinal products.
The proposal before us not only enables us to achieve broadly uniform authorisation criteria in Europe; it also allows us to facilitate the marketing of herbal medicinal products in all Member States while maintaining subsidiarity.
European consumers can continue to choose from a broad range of products which have been submitted by the manufacturer in accordance with the legal provisions and have been carefully scrutinised and authorised by the authorities.
In front of me I have four certificates of analysis and four different types of echinacea products.
The first has on its label echinacea root.
This means that the next time I go and buy my echinacea, I have a 25% chance of actually purchasing what I want.
These inferior products on the market are cheating consumers and bringing herbal medicines into disrepute.
However, we also require a flexible approach, especially on herbal nutrient combinations, traditional herbal medicines from outside the EU and non-herbal traditional medicines.
Where these combination products are classified as medicines, currently they are not covered by the present UK regime for unlicensed herbal medicines and therefore require a marketing authorisation.
The EU proposal would offer greater flexibility than what is offered at the moment in the UK because the directive would permit the inclusion of nutrients which were non-active.
This directive deserves to be considered in the light of all the facts, in the interest of public health, consumer confidence and expanded choice on the market.
Mr President, it seems that a guiding ethos of this establishment is the precautionary principle, which aims to keep risks as low as reasonably practical.
But I have looked at just one of his claims: that is that in the US products based on ephedrine have accounted for more than 1 200 cases of toxic effects, including 70 deaths.
To reach its conclusions the FDA used a combination of scientific evidence on the effects of ephedrine and a set of adverse event reports (AERs).
Furthermore, it did not perform a causal analysis to determine whether ephedrine products caused or contributed to the adverse effects.
I have similar reports on other risks that Mr Nisticò cites.
The rapporteur raises some problems that have been encountered with irresponsible manufacturers, especially in third countries.
Toxic vegetable substances or poisons such as arsenic and mercury, or other medicinal substances such as hormones, have been found in medicinal products.
People associate herbal medicines with something natural, good and safe, and they do not imagine that if the dose is wrong or if there is any other form of abuse this can cause serious harm and even death, or that there may be serious problems of quality with the product.
A full listing of the Commission's position on each of the amendments is provided in writing to Parliament.
In principle, the Commission could support such additives as vitamins and minerals.
As a general rule, 30 years of traditional use in total and 15 years within the Community are the minimum to ensure safety and efficacy of the products.
However, there will be exceptions.
It may be that a product has been used outside the EU for thousands of years, but has been available within the Community for only 10 years or less.
The Committee on the Environment proposed to shorten the minimum usage time within the Community from 15 to 10 years.
The Commission is ready to lay down specific rules for such exceptions.
Where a product does not fulfil the general criteria of 30 and 15 years, we could empower the new committee to look into this product and to assess if the available information is sufficient.
This way of establishing flexibility would have the advantage of meeting the double objectives to ensure the protection of public health while at the same time facilitating the free movement of these medicines within the EU.
The Commission's proposal already gives the new committee considerable powers.
The Committee on the Environment wants to go even further and replace the committee which generally deals with medicines for human use (CPMP) with the new 'herbal committee'.
In principle, the Commission could support part of the proposed extension.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
We all know that this was not an easy procedure; there were serious political and technical difficulties and I really must thank her, because I think that, with the work that has been done, Parliament will help push through this important directive.
Over recent years, this type of work has increased in leaps and bounds.
The growth in temporary agency work is firmly on the agenda of social and economic reform which was strengthened at the Barcelona Summit.
In many countries, however, temporary employment is looked down on, mainly when flexibility and quality of work are not pulling in the same direction.
This is the shortcoming on certain job markets which this directive is designed to rectify or prevent in future.
The aim is to create a broad, flexible framework based on fundamental workers' rights; these rights must be protected in all cases so that we can protect the quality of work.
You have already referred to the agreements of social partners and also to the failure of their negotiations in this regard.
Secondly, because I am utterly convinced of the usefulness and the need for flexibilisation of the European labour market and I see temporary work as a worthwhile tool, provided that the protection of temporary workers is also regulated in a sensible way.
Finally, because I totally disagree with the trend to declare European regulation in the social sphere out of order.
I actually think that it is very important, especially in view of enlargement and the developments that are under way, to lay this basis in European legislation and to ensure that from here we also go further in Europe.
I therefore strongly oppose the attempts of some in this Parliament to remove precisely this balance of flexibility and security.
Firstly, they are trying to remove the equal treatment principle by not linking it to the conditions of employment in the user company, but taking other temporary workers as a reference point.
Then you have something like the equal treatment of women by comparing them only with other women and not with men.
We now have the legal opinions of all three institutions that this is very much possible, because it is a question of a comparison and not of fixing the level of pay.
That will mean that the directive no longer has any point, because then the majority, if not all, temporary work will fall outside of its scope.
I know that this is also a major problem in the United Kingdom.
I have also tried to make a proposal to make this possible for a transitional period, that is for the first six weeks.
I speak on behalf of Mr Gargani, the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, in whose name our opinion stands.
I am pleased that a number of other groups have supported the thrust of our amendments and I thank members of my own political family for going along with some of our ideas.
The problem is that, as amended, the proposal from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs does not achieve the sort of flexibility that its advocates, the Commission and the rapporteur, were claiming.
My concern about this report is that it fails to accept that high-quality temporary work, delivered by a caring and well-run agency, is not just a second best for employment.
Mr President, in order to combat mass unemployment, more flexible models of work need to be found.
There are problems in practice, however.
It was unfortunate that my proposal to introduce a six-month qualifying period at European level failed to secure a majority.
In the Group of the European People's Party, we are therefore developing a compromise which takes appropriate account of the different rules in the Member States and respects the subsidiarity principle.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after months of intensive work, we can now vote for the first time in plenary on the draft directive on working conditions for temporary workers.
Everyone involved has made great efforts to achieve the best possible solution for temporary workers, temporary work agencies and dynamic economic development in our EU Member States.
With around 10 million jobless and a shaky economy in the European Union, we must be sure that our well-meaning intention - to guarantee a basic level of social provision for temporary workers - does not paralyse an entire sector.
Temporary work can help new recruits find a direction for the future, and it can help prevent employees who are particularly difficult to place from leaving the workforce, or assist them to return to work.
My group attaches particular importance to flexibility in this sector.
If, when we vote tomorrow, we are guided by the principle of subsidiarity and the concept of pro-active economic development as a basis for more jobs, we will create more scope for the EU Member States to pursue their own courses towards flexible labour market development which does not conflict with appropriate protection for workers.
The measures adopted in Germany with regard to temporary work lead to a dead-end.
We have heard that provision varies from Member State to Member State in terms of the protection afforded to temporary agency workers.
The numbers of such workers are increasing in those countries, but as far as I am aware they have no existing protection for temporary agency workers.
My second point is that tonight we are pursuing a strategy which has been under way since 1997, when we adopted the employment strategy at European Union level.
We have already dealt with that in relation to the earlier proposals on part-time work and on fixed-term contract working.
We were warned at the time of the part-working directive that it would cost hundreds of thousands of part-time jobs, particularly for women workers within the European Union.
We are often told that it is already a positive option, and that many people want to be temporary agency workers.
We can increase that percentage quite significantly if we get it right and bring this proposal to a successful conclusion.
We should pursue that balance between flexibility and security.
In my own group, two issues have been of great importance at this first reading stage.
I therefore hope that Amendment No 42 will be carried tomorrow.
None of the potential solutions we currently have on paper are that elegant, but they get us through first reading and I am sure we will be getting back to that at the common position and second reading stages.
Mr President, I do not believe the Commission has done enough to address the problems in different Member States.
What we have to do is carry out a proper comprehensive impact assessment.
I am in favour of temporary workers receiving protection but believe that it is probably best left to Member States, rather than having the 'fit-all' directive which we have in front of us today.
The proposal in its current form will reduce flexibility, reduce opportunities for temporary workers and lead to more bureaucracy.
To make it more workable for Member States we would firstly like to exclude pay and other financial benefits from the directive's scope altogether.
Most temporary workers in the UK and some other Member States are covered on health and safety grounds.
Another key amendment is to make sure the user company or the agency can be comparative, to give Member States that choice.
Mr President, it is well known that this proposal for a directive has arisen as a consequence of the block that European employers have imposed on the negotiating process on which the social partners had embarked.
Nevertheless, although the proposal is intended to improve the working conditions of temporary workers, guaranteeing them equal rights and equal treatment, it only guarantees these through minimum standards of protection, based on the principle of non-discrimination, with countless derogations and with the dangerous prospect of an upsurge in temporary work agencies, which will contribute to greater job instability.
Consequently, in the debate in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, we agreed with all of the rapporteur's attempts to improve the proposal for a directive and to guarantee workers' rights, having tabled various proposals for amendments, specifically the removal of various derogations that could undermine the principle of non-discrimination, the guarantee not to use temporary workers to break strikes and the principle that the work undertaken by temporary agencies must not contribute to increasing job instability.
We regret that most of these proposals have not been accepted, although we welcome the fact that some important ideas have been adopted, specifically on the restriction of derogations, enshrining the application of the principle of non-discrimination from day one with the removal of the six-week derogation, thereby guaranteeing some rights in the field of the information and participation of temporary workers and their not being used to break a strike.
Hence the proposals we tabled for the vote in plenary.
We therefore hope that you will support our proposals and reject all those that will, in practice, create greater instability and damage the rights of temporary workers who, in most cases, only resort to taking this type of work when they cannot find permanent employment.
My group will not be supporting the amendments which oppose this directive, but will generally support the rapporteur.
We have been told by certain major agencies, some of the largest operating in the European Union, that they do not oppose a regulation, which is not what the Confederation of British Industry and others would have us believe.
Some of the agencies have told us that they cannot compare the work done by their staff with that of the end-user company's staff as their agency staff do unique work which is highly skilled and is on a project basis.
It is flawed because we have moved away from the social dialogue and social partnership model where there was agreement between both sides of industry before a proposal came before this Parliament.
This has put us all in a very difficult position, because we who are supporters of social dialogue, of protecting the rights of workers and of increasing the opportunities for employment of all the peoples in Europe want to ensure the best possible conditions for those most in need.
Whilst I have no difficulty with the general tenor or the general intent of this directive, a number of facts have to be recognised before we give greater protection to those who are in temporary work contracts under the aegis of agencies.
Firstly, there are various pieces of national legislation which already protect workers and this is merely duplicating or replicating what is already in place.
Thirdly, temporary workers work temporarily by choice and sometimes they can earn more money as temporary workers in an agency capacity.
Fourthly, there is no provision in the Treaties and no place in this Parliament, the Council or the Commission for laying down conditions relating to workers' pay - that is still exclusively a matter for the Member States.
My last point is on the question of the six-week period.
There are amendments tabled for this to be extended to a one-year period.
I reject the argument put forward by some regarding the desire to impose a straitjacket on pay issues from above: no one can specify a Europe-wide level of pay that will be valid in all Member States.
The principle to be upheld was that of non-discrimination, and that has been done, but even more can be done if, as I hope, certain proposed amendments are adopted by this House, without imposing a single model or, much less, denying the direct role of agencies in the three-way relationship that characterises this type of work.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, most Member States already have laws on temporary work or collective agreements, but they vary substantially in quality.
The necessary flexibility is further safeguarded through wage negotiations.
Accordingly, I urge colleagues to support Amendments Nos 72 and 74 which should overcome this problem.
Similarly, I hope for a positive vote on Amendments Nos 71 and 73 which guard against any adverse effects the directives might have in both the shorter and longer terms.
Finally, my special thanks go to the rapporteur for the inclusive manner in which she has handled a very difficult dossier and my personal good wishes to her for the outcome of the vote tomorrow.
We therefore have difficulties with some of the amendments which my colleague, Ilda Figueiredo, has already mentioned in that they may possibly lead to discrimination.
In the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, although it points out that these companies have contributed to improving the labour market, it is also stated that these companies, in certain countries of the European Union, employ illegal workers, and that they regularly violate the rights of workers.
Therefore, as my colleague has already pointed out, if certain amendments mentioned are approved, it will be difficult for us to vote in favour of the report.
We are therefore tabling certain amendments - I am not sure if they are having much luck - inspired by a principle laid out in one of them: we advocate that this directive should be aimed at improving the quality of temporary work, guaranteeing respect for the principle of non-discrimination.
I think that the main point is that the legislation this directive is about is very different in what are very different countries, that temporary work is regulated in a very different way in the different European countries and I would like everyone to recognise that.
We must nonetheless seek a solution because of the previous history and also because of the fact that we would otherwise be unable to regulate cross-border traffic.
To move in the direction of the Lisbon process we must develop further the important role that temporary work can play.
It is currently still the country with the highest percentage of temporary workers and experience shows that you can deregulate, but that you must then take certain statutory measures.
As each country needs its own balance, the directive must be relatively flexible.
The purpose of the directive is thus to guarantee and harmonise a common minimum level of protection for temporary workers, without any discrimination.
A number of amendments even ratify the employers' point of view on the flexibility offered by this form of insecure employment.
Temporary workers everywhere should at least benefit, from the first day of their contract, from the same working conditions, pay and holiday entitlements as the staff employed by the company using the temporary workers.
This amendment offers some help, but the improvements are marginal and all our temporary workers, recruitment agencies and client companies will be saying the same thing - that we are still left with a directive that could cost the UK alone 160 000 jobs.
Last week the press reported her as saying that the EU had created a net 12 million jobs over the last six years and that the EU' s rigid labour market was not the main problem facing Europe's economy.
It is a problem for all of us, but you are, with respect, making it worse.
This directive has little to do with protecting the rights of temporary workers, certainly in the UK where happily they already enjoy such protection.
The Commission should have the guts to strip away this pretence and withdraw this directive.
To encourage it to do so, the UK Conservative delegation will vote against this report.
The kind of detailed work that is involved in this kind of directive is never adequately appreciated outside of this House.
We are trying to balance flexibility with security for workers who, in many countries, still do not have any security at all.
We have been told here that national legislation already exists in Ireland to protect these workers.
There are close to 100 000 agency workers in Ireland.
It also points out that Ireland has failed to implement the 1991 Health and Safety Directive covering agency workers.
Mr President, the directive on temporary agency work marks an even more organised and methodological attack on the right to full, stable employment and social insurance.
Protecting full, stable employment with rights for everyone is always a vital objective but it will only be achieved by stepping up the fight against the monopolies and the anti-labour policy of the European Union.
Firstly, the purpose of temporary work agencies, as an instrument for flexibility in the labour market, which reconcile the aspirations of workers with the needs of companies.
Secondly, I would like to comment on the restrictions and prohibitions relating to the use of the temporary provision of workers and, from a doctrinal or theoretical point of view, I would like to say that, where there is permission for contracting workers on a temporary basis, there is no reason to prohibit the contracting of workers provided by agencies.
It must only be objective and duly justified - and therefore restrictive - criteria that regulate prohibitions.
That would make the directive an empty shell.
Secondly, it is important that temporary workers enjoy good employment conditions.
The countries where this is properly regulated usually guarantee contracts for an indefinite period of time or long contracts.
I should like to warn our fellow MEPs from the PPE-DE against stepping onto a slippery slope by reducing these guarantees too much.
Commissioner, just like you, I hope that we as legislators will be able to do what the social partners have been unable to do, that is to guarantee all temporary workers throughout the European Union solid social protection.
Mr President, in the last ten years, there has been a steady growth in temporary work in the European Union.
This rapid growth is justified because temporary work enables companies to respond better to the need to be flexible and to adapt to the economic climate.
The aims of the proposal we are discussing are: to ensure that temporary work is a factor in creating jobs that encourage more stable and longer employment relationships; to guarantee the rights and safety of temporary workers; and to increase flexibility in the labour market.
The basic premise is to extend, at Community level, the principle of non-discrimination between temporary and other workers.
The guarantee of minimum rights will make this sector more attractive and give it a better reputation, bringing to an end the prejudice against it that still exists.
This report is balanced and represents a step forwards from the proposal for a directive presented by the Commission and I therefore thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs from my own group for their contributions to it.
This balance is reflected particularly in the definition of minimum Community requirements, leaving it to the Member States and the social partners to adapt these to the specific situation in their respective countries.
I should like to point out that, in Portugal, Article 4 is the provision that could cause the most problems: in fact, current national legislation contains a restrictive set of arrangements on this type of work in order to ensure that it is used only to serve employers' occasional needs.
I would like to have seen the social partners at European level solving this issue, so that we would have been able to achieve a directive this way.
I therefore thank the Commission for the fact that a good proposal has been tabled.
We must not create a Union only for capital - the Union must also be for its citizens.
The provisions should therefore apply from the first day.
They talk all the time solely about the rights of companies and never about the rights of employees.
If social dialogue is to work, then there needs to be a more balanced approach to social measures, particularly in line with commitments on labour market flexibility in the context of the Lisbon competitive process.
The definition in Article 3 of a comparable worker will cause major difficulties, and by adopting a user comparison agency workers will find their conditions of employment varying depending on where they are assigned.
In Article 4 the inclusion of a limitation on the use of temporary work runs counter to employment policy at EU level and there is no economic or social justification for it.
In relation to Article 5, the reference to 'essential' employment conditions is unclear and has no precedent in EU law.
The Commission has departed from normal practice and the wording used in previous social dialogue agreements should be the template, rather than the views of only one social partner.
The same applies to Article 6 and the matters governed by points 6.2 and 6.3.
Six weeks is far too short a period to decide whether a temporary agency worker should be made permanent or not.
Ireland is behind in transposing EU law in this area but we have true social dialogue and a comprehensive body of national law where there is a general qualifying period of 12 months' continuous service for entitlement to rights.
My congratulations to our rapporteur, to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for their amendments.
Mr Harbour has reminded me of our confrontation but I can assure him that our confrontations are always exciting.
Amendment No 87, part two, and more importantly Amendment No 86, should not be adopted because they abolish every safety valve accepted by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
I do not know whether or not this was an oversight, but may I point out that our committee's Amendment No 40, which relates to Article 5, paragraph 2, stating that Member States shall take appropriate measures with a view to preventing misuse, is deleted under Amendment No 86.
Mr President, temporary work agencies are a necessary part of the flexible labour market of the future.
Immigrants often gain excellent opportunities to get a foothold in the labour market through these companies.
It is therefore important to encourage and facilitate the activities of temporary work agencies.
It is therefore difficult to create even framework legislation which takes into account all the differences.
The political starting points for the proposal for a directive are to view work done for temporary work agencies as a variation on temporary employment, and to prevent what has come to be known as social dumping.
The problems with framework legislation at European level are clear when one looks at Sweden.
Around 70%of those employed through temporary work agencies are on permanent contracts.
This is why we do not believe that pay should be included in the directive's definition of terms and conditions of employment.
The temporary work agency sector functions well in Sweden and could be a model for Europe.
However, the proposal before us does not facilitate development of this sector in Europe.
There is a need to understand the situation in countries where there is a less-developed temporary agency worker regulation.
That is why I welcome amendments like Amendment No 71, through the efforts of the rapporteurs and others to understand that situation.
We are in a situation where there is evidence that those vulnerable workers looking to us for protection require that protection and good agency employers require growth and flexibility.
We want to find that balance.
For many years now Europe has clearly not managed to fulfil its aim to become the world's most competitive economic area.
Unfortunately, this proposal for a directive on temporary agency work will take us even further away from our objective.
The Lisbon targets bind us to a more flexible labour market than before.
The Member States take care of the social consequences of that by taking account of the interests of employees in the way they themselves consider best.
For historical reasons there are big differences between the labour market systems in Member States.
One rigid solution in this sector will not suit everyone.
This directive's implementation will clearly worsen the general situation regarding temporary agency work in Finland.
Temporary employment agencies offer a flexible solution in the way they fill vacancies promptly and speedily in sectors suffering from a shortage of manpower.
Mr Crowley has a comment on procedure.
Rather than take up Parliament's time explaining how successful my party has been in government in creating employment and protecting workers' rights, I would like to invite him to discuss its merits and demerits over a drink.
First, several honourable Members raised the question of subsidiarity.
So there is clearly a need, just as in all other sectors of labour legislation, for a common, flexible framework.
But what is important politically is that this sector is mushrooming and workers' rights are being distorted left, right and centre, which is why we need to be pro-active and regulate it as quickly as possible within - I repeat - a general framework.
There is a clear reference to the Netherlands and the Dutch model, a model which has managed to combine flexibility with social insurance and protection for workers in a country in which some of the biggest and most successful temporary employment agencies are to be found.
The legislation does not introduce any new procedures for recruiting or transferring workers and each country keeps its present system.
Flexibility, at least as we interpret it in Europe, means a set of policies and practices to help the company, the worker, the public sector and the law to adapt to new production requirements.
Flexibility must not be interpreted as meaning fewer or no rights as a prerequisite to job creation.
All that will happen in that particular country is that there may be a small increase in labour costs due to the minimum social rights granted to workers on the British job market.
I should like if I may, Mr President, to comment on specific amendments in order to give the Commission's position.
The first type clarifies the proposal and adds a number of definitions.
I agree with the amendment designed to convey more fully the triangular relationship between worker, agency and user undertaking innate in temporary employment.
We support the amendments that redefine temporary agency work, the user company and the temporary work agency.
The definition proposed for the term 'assignment ' is far more accurate.
The new wording for the group of workers that Member States cannot exclude from the scope of the directive is a vast improvement.
I accept the amendment rewording the reference to social services more clearly.
I agree with the amendment requiring the Member States to ensure that both workers and their representatives are equipped to press the provisions of the directive.
I agree with the amendment extending the scope for lifting restrictions and prohibitions on temporary agency work.
This scope was very restricted in the proposal for a directive, because it only applied to restrictions or prohibitions on certain groups of workers or certain sectors.
Nor can I allow the 6-week period which allows temporary agency workers to be used in certain countries for a very short space of time for work of minor importance to be deleted.
To summarise, I accept Amendments Nos 1, 4, 22, 28, 33, 43, 46, 47, 48, 51, 52, 85 and 92 in full.
I should like to thank you all for helping to bring about a new text which will facilitate the final acceptance of the directive, what is without doubt a politically and technically complicated directive.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the amazing progress that has been made in biology and in molecular genetics is fascinating and disturbing at the same time.
Scientific knowledge has moved ahead at such a pace that we are now in a position radically to change not only the vegetal and animal world, but also, eventually perhaps, our own species.
The abilities of science and technology have now largely gone beyond the fictions contained in literary masterpieces such as Huxley's 'Brave New World' or George Orwell's 'Nineteen Eighty-Four'.
The concern expressed by the broader public, however, with regard, for example, to genetically modified organisms and to cloning is a very clear sign, which the political, scientific and industrial world must heed.
An initial response was drawn up by UNESCO when, in November 1997, by consensus it adopted the universal declaration on the human genome and human rights.
However, of all the revolutions that have taken place in the realm of knowledge, that of molecular biology will, perhaps, be the greatest of all and it is genetics that will have the greatest implications in the economic, cultural and ethical spheres.
Biotechnologies are part of the technologies of the future.
The potential development of these gives us a glimpse of major changes in the coming years in the medicinal products, food, agriculture and environmental markets.
The European Union has availed itself in recent years of a panoply of directives and regulations in the field of biotechnologies and science.
Although the European Union has 1570 undertakings operating in this field and the United States has 1263, the fact is that these undertakings in the European Union employ 61 000 workers who produce a volume of business of EUR 42 billion, whereas in this same sector in the United States 162 000 workers are employed, producing the equivalent of EUR 365 billion.
I also warmly welcome the fact that the report has been produced on the basis of broad political agreement.
This report marks a very important step: biotechnology is the next wave of the knowledge-based economy and biotechnology research is crucial for strengthening European competitiveness in this field.
There is a growing realisation among Europeans that this technology is important for our future competitiveness and welfare.
A consensus is emerging on how we might strengthen its development in a manner consistent with our European values and ethical standards.
We are faced with a policy choice: either stand aside and see these technologies developed elsewhere, or exploit them ourselves in a responsible manner and to the benefit of European citizens.
It affects, or can even transform, broad areas such as healthcare, environmental protection, agriculture and food and industrial production processes.
The Commission's Communication on 'Life Sciences and Biotechnology: a strategy for Europe' builds upon the common knowledge base in life sciences and will lead to skills-based jobs that sustain the economies of the future.
We propose a number of actions for the promotion of biotechnology development in Europe, and at the same time, further measures for responsible governance, to ensure that this development takes place in accordance with our societal values and needs.
The Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development, under the leadership of Commissioner Busquin, will provide substantial support for the supply of skilled resources and for overcoming the fragmentation of research and lack of critical mass.
We need to ensure that research results can be protected by means of harmonised intellectual property protection, and translated into commercial products and processes through effective innovation and technology transfer.
The success of the biotechnology strategy will only be assured if the technology is built on a basis of societal trust.
The Commission has started implementing measures in its own areas of responsibility.
However, this strategy will only work well if we all - European institutions, Member States, regions, industry, academia and civil society alike - now make commitments according to our respective responsibilities and resources.
This framework must comply, in particular, with WTO rules and safeguard the coexistence of all forms of agricultural production.
Further key points include: support for the development of bioclusters and other models for technological transfer, easier access to risk capital, especially for start-ups and SMEs in biotech research, the introduction of a European patent, and a transparent and scientifically based information policy on the part of the authorities, companies and the scientific establishment.
The Damião report sends out a positive signal for biotechnology, but it also makes clear where we need better rules than currently exist.
The report rejects this position.
Indeed, the report says that genetic technology can contribute towards finding genuine solutions to sustainable development, and I would like to emphasise this point.
The report says that it must end by 2003.
I believe that it should actually end now, because the deadline for the implementation of Directive 220/90 has already passed.
A year ago, our group commissioned an expert report on this issue.
This report says that the European Union has competence in this area.
I would like to add an explanation here, for biotechnology does not work with 'classical' thermodynamics, but with irreversible thermodynamics; in other words, it works with very small potential differences to produce a very substantial impact.
What we say is that biotechnology alone cannot defeat hunger in the world, and that other measures, such as better distribution of the food available, are far more important.
However, biotechnology can make its contribution to reducing hunger in the world.
The climate in the European Union, the business climate, and also ethics and environment.
Despite being a key technology, biotechnology is still a poor relation in Europe and also in my own country the Netherlands.
I therefore welcome the strategy of the Committee for biotechnology and life sciences, which is contributing to research and development in Europe.
There is still much to be done in Europe in terms of access to launch capital and to patent rights to create a favourable climate.
The patent directive for biotechnological inventions is a demonstrable improvement.
Another major obstacle to progress and application are the ethical and environmental concerns.
It does not therefore seem necessary to me to strengthen this report with paragraphs that regulate communication with society in detail.
The degree of interference and pressure exerted on developing countries to introduce GMOs into their food chain is shocking.
It is truly mystifying and unacceptable that, once again, the idea is being aired that food shortages and world hunger can have a technological solution when the issue - as has been stressed in many international fora and organisations - is a political one and is a matter of policy.
Mr President, we increasingly see that when biotechnology is referred to, genetic technology is actually what is meant, but this is not stated clearly.
For more than 20 years, promises have been made which have then been broken in practice.
We have no products which are successful and are accepted in the market.
I also find what is happening here quite unacceptable.
The current report demands the very opposite.
Then no one can claim that we are prepared to put the interests of industry ahead of consumer protection simply to push these products on to the market.
With this in mind, I would like to state quite clearly, once again, that much of what is written here does not have our support.
Nonetheless, I think it is quite good, and ask you to support our Amendments Nos 26 and 27, which make it clear that coexistence is very important in agriculture, and that the sustainable co-existence of conventional and organic farming should be ensured.
While highlighting the constraints on the development of biotechnology and life sciences, it demonstrates their role and importance to our society in a pertinent manner.
We are faced with an extraordinarily rich scientific field, many areas of which are still unknown and have yet to be exploited.
There are two aspects to this area of science, but one of them does not always present what is best for mankind and the well-being of our societies.
Life sciences must only be allowed to grow and expand within the bounds of strict regulations, all of which should prioritise the principles of public health, prevention, precaution and the respect for human life and dignity.
I am therefore pleased to see that the report reflects these concerns and I also commend the work of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy to establish better regulations on research and to improve information given to the consumer.
In this spirit, we must do everything possible to improve the financing of companies in this sector and to allow them access to risk capital.
These companies are generally very young, often small, and therefore vulnerable.
We must also encourage the development of researchers in our universities and facilitate their laboratory work within the spirit of the European Charter for Small Enterprises.
All sciences worthy of the name must be aware of their role in society.
Finally, I would like to comment on how this affects developing countries.
Although we act to combat hunger, poverty and disease, which are all holding back development in these countries, we do not have the right to impose a scientific model or a way of thinking on any country.
We need to uphold the principle of respect for others.
Therefore we cannot consider imposing science and technology as a means of development.
Ladies and gentlemen, biotechnology is the third technological revolution for our society, following the industrial revolution and the information revolution.
The thrust of this report is fully in line with the Lisbon Summit objectives and continues the forward-looking attitude consistently demonstrated by Parliament.
This is only one example of the chronic foot-dragging we see endlessly in the Council and by individual Member States.
Mrs Damião, thank you for giving us hope that there is real hope in Europe for biotechnology and the life sciences.
In this context, biotechnology offers many opportunities.
The fight against poverty and famine in the developing countries requires various initiatives in order to succeed.
Mr President, you do not have to be an implacable opponent of GMOs - and I am not - to challenge the undiluted advocacy of them in this report.
We want sustainable agriculture in developing nations.
We need answers to these questions before we open the floodgates.
I am therefore in favour of enlarging the Union to include all the current candidate countries, including Turkey.
I abstained, however, from voting on the Brok report, because I believe that enlargement as envisaged by the report is taking place under very poor conditions.
Neither the current Union nor the candidate countries are really ready.
Furthermore, the recent European Council, instead of deciding on greater solidarity with the candidate countries, practically all of which have extremely serious economic and social problems to address, has actually reduced the aid package established in Berlin in 1999.
Nothing has been decided on future financing, except that CAP appropriations will be frozen after 2006 with a downward trend, in order to serve more countries with less money!
The financial block is therefore scheduled to take place after enlargement.
There is a great risk of the enlarged European Union simply ending up as a free trade area, with no real solidarity and therefore no European integration.
