One year after Lisbon: the EU-Africa partnership at work (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Martens, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on One year after Lisbon: The Africa-EU partnership at work.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank the Committee on Development and its rapporteur, Mrs Martens, for this report which makes a first assessment of the Africa-EU Strategic Partnership one year after the Lisbon Summit.
To mention just one of these, we have this afternoon had a meeting between Parliament's ad hoc delegation for relations with the Pan-African Parliament of the African Union and the Pan-African Parliament of the African Union's ad hoc committee for relations with the European Parliament on the role of parliaments in implementing and monitoring Africa-EU strategy.
The first point is on the role of parliaments.
European and African civil society should meet in a forum at the end of April 2009 to draw up concrete proposals for commitment to the joint Africa/European Union ministerial Troika.
rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the report 'One year after Lisbon: The Africa-EU partnership at work', which is to say the implementation of the Joint Africa-EU Strategy for the development of Africa, as set out at the EU-Africa Summit in December 2007.
Commissioner Michel was spot on when he said, in a meeting in this regard just a short while ago that the more poverty there is, the more instability there is.
In 2007, the Pan-African Parliament and the European Parliament issued a joint statement which actually quite pithily sums up what is involved.
Our parliaments have an essential part to play in shaping the debate on the joint priorities for the future of our continents; they reflect the various currents of opinion in our societies, and are therefore the place where the debate must be conducted, and where differing views can be reconciled and compromises sought.' (NL) I am therefore pleased that, at this meeting, we agreed what the role of the parliaments would be.
It was fortunate, and by no means an accident, that the first joint partnership strategy was created for Africa, and involving Africa.
Jomo Kenyatta, the father of Kenyan independence, described this in a vivid, albeit simplified, manner.
Nevertheless, for the first time in 30 years, it is experiencing a period of economic growth.
It is worrying, however, that little progress has been made in most of these areas.
I do not know what practical things have been done with respect to this, but in any case I think that they give the process which you have set in motion a chance of success.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the year 2007 was unfortunately the second year in a row when contributions to official development assistance decreased in the developed world.
I find that the Member States ought to revise their current assistance to target countries, as the 2008 Millennium Development Goals Progress Chart indicates that Sub-Saharan Africa is the only region lagging seriously behind the progress expected.
The global economic crisis burdens us all, yet we must not forget or ignore the fact that the least developed countries are also the most vulnerable now.
However, this has had no positive impact on the living standards of the population or in terms of reducing poverty.
The rapporteur, Mrs Martens, has clearly stated this fact.
The Lisbon Summit was not able to achieve this in full, perhaps because of the haste with which it was concluded, and neither the European Union nor the African Union wanted or was able to give a structural role to parliaments and civil society, in Africa or Europe.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Martens, for this solid report.
The fact that Beijing also invests in countries such as Zimbabwe says it all about China's contribution to long-term democracy and good governance in Africa.
Both Commissions have agreed, as have the two Parliaments as well as the two Councils.
However, following the first meeting in Adis Ababa, we have managed, in our second meeting today, to implement and finally agree on what we had agreed concerning the involvement of the two Parliaments.
In Mauretania, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau and Madagascar, Africa has reacted by suspending the membership of these countries.
That is why I am confident that if we, as Parliaments, are more involved in the implementation of this strategy in the future, we will be able to deliver added value to this partnership. (PT) I want to congratulate Mrs Martens on this important report and point out how vital this Parliament's role is in monitoring the implementation of the Joint Africa-EU Strategy and the respective Action Plan.
It is particularly important that we are vigilant in terms of honouring the commitments made by the European Union and its Member States with a view to selecting the Millennium Development Goals.
The European Parliament's role in this process must be reinforced by officially giving it monitoring functions and involving it in the work of the strategy implementation teams.
It will be the first time that this has happened in 50 years.
I hope that, in view of this crisis and its repercussions, which will continue to be felt during the next few years, the EU-Africa Cooperation Strategy will be amended in an appropriate manner, in order to prevent this kind of civil unrest, or perhaps even armed conflict, being caused by the global economic crisis. (ES) Mr President, in Lisbon in December 2007, the Heads of State or Government of the European Union adopted the Joint Africa-EU Strategy and the first Action Plan for its implementation.
The second fact is that sub-Saharan Africa is the poorest region on the planet.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, I would like to thank the various speakers.
It is equally obvious that the role of the national parliaments and that of civil society are eminently important.
I am not at all satisfied with that and I think that we will have to fight for it in the future.
Unfortunately, I do not think that we can discuss that now, but the issue of knowing whether European aid from our Member States or from the Commission is still achieving its goals or is still effective - whether it is a good way of working - is another matter.
As far as we are concerned, I will already be very pleased if the Member States keep the promises they made in 2005.
I would just like to say that I still have one more very important issue to cover, which is the role of civil society and national parliaments.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 24 March 2009.
