Accordingly, in response to the request of the co-chairmen of that Group, that statement from the Presidency is withdrawn and declared null and void and the composition of the Independence and Democracy Group remains exactly as it was before 15 March 2006.
That is why we propose to deal with this matter under an accelerated procedure that will allow us, following further discussions at the next meeting of the committee on 18 and 19&#160;April, to vote on the report in committee on 2&#160;May, and thus to submit it to Parliament during the following plenary session in May.
We therefore do not think that this final period of reflection, which we consider to be necessary within Parliament, will cause any major difficulties. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am in favour of this being treated as an urgent matter.
Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want any shocks in the application of this agreement in the future, as has happened in the past.
The Committee on Fisheries has not done so yet.
In view of the major crisis currently facing the avian sector in a number of Member States, we think it is vital to reach a decision quickly, and, by adopting urgent procedure, the European Parliament will be in a position to express an opinion on the Commission's proposal.
The Commission submitted the request for urgent procedure at the end of last week, and we will respond on Thursday.
It was during the past year that the Commission first presented them, and I am grateful to your House for giving them such close attention, for they will be a guide – not only during this year but also thereafter – to what we are considering doing and to the basis on which we will be doing it.
If they stick to them, we will be able to achieve 2.6% by 2010, which is an improvement, but – and I have to make this clear – it is not enough, and so the Commission will continue to bring pressure to bear on them.
I believe that this fundamental agreement amongst the three European institutions is crucial to the credibility of the process, the acceptance of the objectives of this strategy by all economic and social actors, and not just the European and national institutions, and is one of the conditions – which I believe to be essential – for achieving greater growth and employment in the European Union.
The confidence of the economic actors is improving, the results of activity suggest that 2006 is going to offer better results than in 2005 and the perspectives opening up for the future are also positive.
In October, the Commission is going to publish a report on this issue, which I hope will also be debated and monitored in Parliament.
I am very pleased that, as well as a general analysis of the European economy and of the role of the Lisbon Strategy and of the different instruments included in the broad economic policy guidelines for the economy of twenty-five, Mr García-Margallo’s report makes a particular reference to the challenges and needs of the eurozone, in which the twelve countries that share the single currency, the euro, need mechanisms for coordination and special attention in order to obtain the best possible results from the economic and monetary union.
A study carried out by the Commission into the first of the national reform programmes has uncovered specific shortcomings in respect of Member State implementation, although these do not undermine the validity of the basic principles.
It would therefore be inappropriate to give the impression that we wish to change the direction or content of the policies at this point.
The text proposed by the Commission deliberately left open the possibility of supplementing the points of justification with specific political priorities.
It therefore clearly goes along with Parliament’s desire to include in the points of justification some elements of an economic and social nature which require particular attention, especially where they accord with the conclusions of the latest spring session of the European Council.
In the case of young people there was confirmation of the goal of reducing by 10% the numbers of those not finishing school, and offering every young person employment, work experience or further education within six months of leaving school by 2007 and within four months by 2010, as set out in the current main principles.
Concerning equal opportunities for men and women, the spring session of the European Council adopted the European Pact for Gender Equality, and the Council also adopted the Commission proposal to launch a wide-ranging debate which should lead to the adoption of common principles in the area of flexibility and security (‘flexsecurity’) by the end of 2007.
The aim of this discussion with the Member States and social partners is to reduce the segmentation of the labour market and to strike the right balance between flexibility and security.
This bears witness to the desire to make more effective use of Community funds in support of European employment strategy, and in accordance with the wishes of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; . – European citizens do not like the political code words used by the experts.
Unfortunately, the ‘Lisbon process’ is starting to become a code phrase too, even though it represents our common future.
And if this is true, which it is, then we can welcome the decision of the Council and Commission, that Member States should assess the implementation of the Directives on employment and economic development in integrated Directives, evaluating the two issues in connection with one another.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has acknowledged and accepted that on the basis of the Interinstitutional Agreements, Parliament will not change the guidelines annually – and I believe that this will also serve the interests of the Member States – and it will only change them in the event of any problems arising on the employment market of the European Union.
At the same time, in the specifications of political aims – contained in the preamble – we considered it important to include in the parliamentary document the lessons learned from the first report prepared after the ten new Member States joined the European Union.
The committee agreed, almost unanimously, that Parliament should participate more actively in the verification of the implementation of the guidelines.
Primarily, we emphatically call attention to the improvement of the labour market opportunities of social groups with various disadvantages.
A huge reserve for increasing labour resources is firstly to increase the activity of women, secondly, to maintain the ageing or aged workforce on the labour market or to encourage their return, and thirdly, to help young people find jobs and enter the labour market.
We also call attention to the anomaly that workers coming from third countries may have a more favourable position on the European labour market than citizens of new Member States.
We will have the opportunity to discuss this problem in connection with the ry report, but I would already like to say, on the basis of the news we have recently heard, that we welcome the Netherlands to the ‘club of the 6’ (as the seventh country, from 2007).
And finally, thirdly, we believe that without a long-term financial perspective it is not possible to provide adequate resources to Member States for the tasks that are specified as fundamental goals in the integrated guidelines either.
Polite words are fashionable here, but this is not politeness or force of habit: I would like to say a sincere thank you to my colleagues – irrespective of their party affiliation – and to the representatives of the various political groups for their help and contribution, and separately to Ana Mato Adrover, the co-rapporteur of the report.
Secondly, because, since we discussed the previous report, new factors have arisen: the relative failure of the European Constitution, a new financial perspective, some first interest rate rises, three candidates seeking to join the eurozone, and the Doha Round, which continues the Hong Kong trade talks.
Secondly, because there are certain factors that we have taken up in other reports, but which have become more important over time.
This report has been drawn up in a spirit of consensus, which has obliged many of us to give way on our particular points of view, and I would like in particular to thank all of the representatives of the other parliamentary groups for doing so.
We asked for a transposition of directives, which has not happened, a reduction of deficits — Commissioner Almunia has pointed out that 12 of the 25 Member States are currently in a situation of excessive deficit — a communication on globalisation in order to make clear to the public the opportunities and challenges it presents — and if this communication had been produced, it would have spared us a few headaches — and we also called for the application of the charters on small and medium-sized businesses, something which has not been done.
Those guidelines established the general approach to employment and the priorities for the next three years, and their purpose was to make an effective contribution to employment growth, the productivity of the economy and, of course, strengthening social inclusion and cohesion.
These guidelines, which were debated jointly with the economic policy guidelines, which this year have been presented brilliantly by Mr García-Margallo y Marfil, have been taken up and translated into concrete objectives in the national reform plans, approved scarcely six months ago by the Member States.
In my country, for example, 52% of all work created over the last two years has been temporary work, and that is unacceptable.
In the fight against accidents in the workplace we advocated a broad agreement at European level, which we believe to be essential, since in Spain, for example, 990 people lost their lives in 2005, and also help for the victims of domestic violence in finding work.
Finally, since we are now updating them, we want this Parliament to be able to monitor the employment guidelines and compliance with them by the Member States. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner Verheugen, Commissioner Almunia, Commissioner Špidla, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that the European single market presents us with our great opportunity, a great opportunity for us, with our 450 million people or thereabouts, to find our own way through globalisation, a way that must be marked by economic prosperity and sound finances, while also producing results that are real to ordinary people.
What we have to discuss – and this debate is fundamental to our doing so – is whether we have equipped ourselves with all the instruments we will need on this voyage, and whether we are making the right use of the instruments we have in order to give this internal market the right framework and influence the processes of economic development in the long term.
Let me make two observations which go beyond today’s debate and these reports.
We will not succeed in this objective if we do not succeed – and soon – in putting the European Union on an independent and accountable financial footing, nor will we succeed in it if we do not succeed in talking about taboo subjects, including the need for a common fiscal policy in this European Union of ours.
Secondly, we must outline a mechanism of interaction between national and European level economic strategies.
And thirdly, this can be achieved by determining clear and concrete priorities which complement each other. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Verheugen said that the right place for the employment policy guidelines is at the heart of the Lisbon Strategy, and in that he was right.
I cannot but note, to my considerable disquiet, that there seems to be in this House a tacit agreement between the two main groups to the effect that, in future, governmental policy decisions, in the shape of national employment plans, should ensure that overall wages trends be brought into line with the rise of productivity in the economic cycle.
This is, first of all, because priority is attached to ensuring economic stability, to enlarging and deepening the internal market, to opening up the markets and promoting competition, and to creating a more business-friendly environment.
What is more, the guidelines for employment are much too vague, as they omit key areas, such as the need to increase female involvement in the labour market, and to ensure high-quality jobs with rights.
It is also crucial to boost regional economies, to promote micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and to create jobs in regions where there are high levels of unemployment.
Families must also be supported, both in terms of rearranging and reducing working hours, without any loss of rights, and in terms of investing in public services to support the family, as this would help to create jobs better suited to local and regional needs.
Greater public investment is therefore urgently required in health, housing and guaranteed access to free, high-quality education and training.
The challenge for Ireland and Europe will be to implement the agreed guidelines via the national reform programmes.
It is of utmost importance that Europe gains economic stability.
The unity of Europe is not compromised by diversity in tax policies, rather the EU’s competitiveness is undermined by the wrong tax policies.
I believe that tax competition harmonises opportunities within the EU and it enables small countries on the periphery of the Union to compete.
However, I would like to stress that state aid rules should not be used to block Ireland or any other Member State from competing against non-EU countries for important foreign direct investment.
Europe needs flexibility to move forward and meet the challenges of globalisation.
The description is very succinct, but very hypocritical.
I am afraid that today’s reports will come to nothing, as long as national governments behave in the same sort of populistic and hypocritical way as this Parliament, rather than confronting difficult truths and taking uncomfortable measures for survival. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, at a time when the phenomenon of globalisation has ultimately determined many of the aspects of the economic and social systems of all our countries, we must be aware that every obstacle to the freedom of movement of persons, goods, capital and services is a major obstacle to competitiveness, growth and job creation.
The notion that the interests of a particular country can be protected by restricting freedom of movement within the EU is pie in the sky.
This kind of attitude may work as a short term panacea but will never properly solve the challenges facing the EU.
As we know, the demographic situation on the European continent and the phenomenon of globalisation make it imperative that we carry out a range of reforms to the social and economic models of many EU Member States.
By putting up certain types of barrier to the free movement of workers, some Member States are actually in the preposterous situation of helping workers from third countries to gain access to jobs ahead of those from new EU Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Kovács, for a very constructive piece of work.
That is true, but the employment situation in Europe is anything but encouraging.
I do not believe in the French model or believe, as a number of other parties expressly do, that employment is boosted by making one particular group or another less secure.
Older workers need to be able to develop their skills to a higher degree, but we also need to increase health and safety in workplaces.
I welcome the Gender Equality Pact which is now, or will in time be, part of the Lisbon process.
It is especially important that child care and other areas be developed so that it is possible for men and women alike both to work and to have an up-and-running family life.
These are aspects that I should like you to include. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the European Union’s main problem is high unemployment.
If we are to get our 20 million unemployed back to earning their own living, a change of policy is needed, and in practice rather than in theory.
The guidelines constitute the main instrument for coordinating the economic policies of the Member States in the effective manner that is required, but, in practice, progress so far has been regrettably unsatisfactory.
On the basis of experience from the Czech Republic and conversations with colleagues, and also looking at the current situation in France, I know that the issue of first jobs for graduates, for example, is often one of the most challenging.
Despite the fact that there have been efforts at a solution on the part of the European Commission, the recommendations and instruments of the European Commission have so far had little effect, due in part to patchy implementation by the Member States, as the rapporteur has stated.
We know from the statistics that even though women constitute a growing segment of society, this trend is not reflected in their share of employment.
We must call on all Member States to apply anti-discrimination laws scrupulously and without delay, in order that this pattern may be reversed. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr&#160;President.
First of all I would like to thank the rapporteur for having drawn attention in the report to restrictions on the free movement of labour within the European Union internal market.
The mythical Polish plumber, who in real life would be welcome, but is difficult to find, clearly illustrates the fears which after enlargement now hold sway in the European Union internal market.
It is therefore a pity that the report provides no assessment of the draft Services Directive as watered down by this Parliament, which in the variant put forward by the Commission was supposed in the coming years to become the main stimulus for the labour market in the European Union.
The main of both reports is the creation of restrictions preventing businesses from freely relocating within the European Union internal market.
The development and strengthening of the European Union’s internal market is the most effective tool in preparing the Member States’ labour market for increasing global competition.
Therefore, we ought to look at the basic approach of the Member States’ employment policies in close connection with the goal of developing the potential of the European Union internal market. &#160;&#160; It was in 2003 that Mr García-Margallo y Marfil wrote his previous report on the economic guidelines and now, three years down the line, judging from the place which the environment occupies in economic policy, it seems that cooperation by means of the open-coordination method has failed to make the necessary impact.
I am thinking, for example, of the way in which the most-subsidised sector of agriculture in France is the production of rice.
We also have a chance, in the current absence of a finalised Financial Perspective, to make more improvements here and of accomplishing even now what you will otherwise do only after another five or ten years, when it will, again, be almost too late. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner Almunia, Commissioner Špidla, ladies and gentlemen, why do we need economic policy guidelines?
Since our last report, conditions have in many respects become more acute.
What the energy crisis and high unemployment show is that our problems are not only home-made, but that they also originate from structural and global causes, and that it is these that we must address in a pro-active manner.
It is also the occasion for coordination of the economic policies of the Member States.
I support the rapporteur's proposals in this respect.
Against the background of the broad economic policy guidelines, we find ourselves faced with a paradox: while the Central Bank has just increased interest rates by a percentage point in quick succession, while rising oil prices are seriously compromising the conditions for economic recovery within the European Union, and while the conditions for the recovery of domestic demand are widely underestimated by various representatives at EU level, these broad guidelines are not shifting.
It seems to us that, from this point of view, we need to do more together with regard to at least one point: I am referring to investment strategy.
My group has tabled an amendment in this connection, which I hope will be adopted by plenary.
I hope that the whole of the Commission, and the Council too, will echo this and will support Commissioner Kovács' efforts on this subject. &#160;&#160; –Changes in the world economy, globalisation processes and their effects on the competitiveness of economic blocs and companies in branches of state economies – these are new challenges for the European Union, which is increasingly losing its competitiveness, and is not ready for the challenges of globalisation.
I would like to mention two important factors for increasing the EU's competitiveness – investment in information and innovations and the accelerated creation of a common energy policy.
While negotiations on the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 are still under way, we ought to reconsider the funding priorities and increase the funding of science, research and the trans-European Networks.
On the subject of the competitiveness of the EU economy, I would like to mention one of the EU's most successful projects – the introduction of the common currency, the Euro, in 12 Member States.
With the enlargement of the Euro zone approaching, we can also see certain shortcomings: the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact are not being adhered to, there is considerable state debt and at various stages almost all of the Euro zone members have failed to satisfy the price stability index.
Employment law of this nature that is flexible regarding both the place of employment and the hours worked encourages women to be active in the labour market.
For women, motherhood represents an enormous challenge in their working lives.
Consequently, tax competition does not threaten Europe in any way.
We need to change the rota; otherwise European citizens will not be able to survive. &#160;&#160; In my statement I&#160;would like to take up several ideas from the resolution on the report into the energy sector, and I intend to do so in the context of the broader economic policy goals for 2006.
These ideas get to the heart of the issue without indulging in vain laments over the economic slowdown in Europe.
The goal is to strengthen the European Union’s potential with regard to a new generation of products and production methods by harnessing information and communication technologies.
The shift of public and private capital expenditure towards investments that generally increase economic performance and productivity will also be important.
As the report frequently reiterates, one of the serious problems facing the European Union at present is the fact that most Member States underestimate the need for far-reaching structural reform.
Paradoxically, some Member States have tried to address the loss of competitiveness that is a natural consequence of rejecting such reform by implementing new measures to protect their markets, which only makes the problem worse.
Companies have been relocating their operations to areas with cheaper labour or, alternatively, have been outsourcing them, which has also caused job contraction.
We must respond quickly to these challenges by putting in place a fully functional internal market, operating without any discrimination and unhampered by unnecessary regulation.
The European Employment Strategy must be regarded not only as a tool for attracting more people to the labour market; it should also present a favourable and open opportunity to join the labour market for those who have particularly limited access to employment, such as older women, single parents and ethnic minorities.
It must be admitted that the challenge of Europe’s ageing society can only be tackled with the increased participation of those special groups in the labour market, as Commissioner Špidla said.
For Europe’s workforce, mobility provides for new skills, new experiences, flexibility and a capacity to adapt to the different working conditions and constantly changing market needs.
Firstly, countering tax competition and the suggestion of harmonising solutions concerning income tax payable by legal entities in a situation when reducing income tax rates has an obvious impact on the acceleration of economic growth.
Lastly, despite the positive experiences of countries such as Great Britain and Ireland following the opening up of their labour markets, the labour markets in the largest countries of the European Union remain closed to workers from the new Member States.
This is in fact one of the reasons why the European Union is developing much more slowly than the United States, and why the old Member States of the Union are developing more slowly than the new ones. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work.
The enormous potential of the sector remains unexploited, although sound policies could enable it to make a positive contribution to the development of the wider economy.
The issue merits broad debate and calls for swift and effective action to be taken in the course of 2006. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like initially to reflect on two points.
The second is that it is those countries that have the most flexible labour markets that also have the best development in terms of new jobs.
A Swedish politician once said that ‘if things are allowed to go on operating as they have done in the past, things will proceed unchanged’.
There is no issue more important for social protection than the growth of new jobs.
Firstly, it must implement those directives that open the way to greater competition.
The Commission must assume responsibility for doing these things, but the Member States also have a responsibility to implement those reforms that will give rise to new enterprise.
Those who are in favour of social protection and economic development are also in favour of more flexible labour markets.
Europe’s economies are developing slowly, we have high unemployment and our public finances are in crisis.
The situation has remained unchanged for a number of years and may result in Europe losing its leading role in the world.
This includes creating more flexible labour markets and a business-friendly environment, in addition to supporting education, training and research.
The Commission has been advocating all this for years, however, to no great avail.
Unfortunately, politicians in the Member States are reluctant to take the necessary measures for fear of losing popularity or because of short-sighted political calculations or even sheer ignorance at times.
The economic and social progress it has achieved will also be threatened.
We are relying on politicians in the Member States to undertake the relevant reforms and persuade their citizens that they are indeed necessary.
I urge the Commission to take strong and decisive action in this regard. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am of course glad to be able to speak for something like the period of time that I was originally allocated to me.
The report spells out once more the fact that the European Union presents the people of Europe, in the face of globalisation, with an opportunity to find a fair compromise between economic conditions on the one hand and social conditions on the other.
The 20 million unemployed and the hundreds of millions of people who fear for their jobs attribute their circumstances more to the European Union than to globalisation.
Commissioner Verheugen said that we need this strategy to be visible.
This is one of our deficits, as is our credibility deficit as well, as Commissioner Almunia said.
The Commission’s people must be active, in order to oblige the governments to apply this European employment strategy.
We need the European legislation that we already have to be applied, since it makes work between the Member States much more consistent.
In this European year of mobility, take steps to remove the obstacles to the mobility of European workers. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the recommendations drawn up by Mr Garcia-Margallo, whom I wish to congratulate, have come at the right moment to turn around the EU’s economic situation.
As things stand, we should be speaking of deepening, rather than reviewing, the Lisbon Strategy, given that what we are now seeing – and have been since the outset – is increased economic growth and more jobs, both of which help to sustain the social models in the long term, and foster adequate social cohesion in the short term.
The Council decided to support the Commission in drawing up a common European energy policy.
The Union’s energy dependency is unsustainable.
Oil imports currently account for 2.3% of Union GDP, which is two and a half times the budget earmarked for all European policies.
The simple agreements between Member States promoted by the Council are therefore inadequate.
Our inability to have a common economic policy is of course a defect, but it can become a virtue if we can agree on a new kind of cooperation of the kind that we have developed in the shape of the Partnership for Growth and Jobs. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; In recent years the EU has been facing serious economic problems: the Union’s growth is below its potential when compared to the US or to emerging countries such as China or India.
Europe must foresee long-term strategies and sufficient resources to invest in its future.
The strategies were designed in order to address these problems but the situation is getting worse.
Besides the structural changes and the development of innovative sectors, environmental protection and the quality of products must remain, within the framework of global economy, a genuine European specificity.
I would like to begin, ladies and gentlemen, by thanking Mr Őry for an excellent report on a topic that constitutes one of the pillars of European integration.
The aim of the transitional measures set out in the Accession Treaty is to enable Member States to work gradually towards achieving, as quickly as possible, the one irrevocable aim of providing all migrant workers from Member States that joined the European Union in 2004 with open access to employment in all Member States.
As stated in the Accession Treaty, the Commission has assessed the operation of these transitional measures in respect of the initial two-year stage, in order to assist Member States in deciding either to retain the transitional measures or to abandon them.
On the basis of the statistical data for 2004 and in some cases also for 2005, and also following consultations with the individual participants, the Commission has produced some specific conclusions relating to the first stage of the transitional period.
Accession has also led to a reduction in labour shortages and to improved economic results in Europe.
The countries that did not introduce restrictions after May 2004 have recorded stronger economic growth, lower levels of unemployment and higher levels of employment.
The workers who have been granted legal access to a labour market have experienced little difficulty in joining the market.
In this spirit, the Member States implementing restrictions on the basis of the Accession Treaty must not treat nationals from EU-8 states who are already legally residing on their territory in a more restrictive way than nationals from third countries who are long-term residents, as reported in the previous plenary session.
For the same reasons the Commission is also monitoring adherence to the provisions that forbid Member States from restricting access to their labour markets for workers from EU-8 states to a greater extent than was the case prior to the signing of the Accession Treaty, that is, prior to 16 April 2003.
The Commission supports proposals from Parliament for reinforcing social dialogue on both a European and a national level, with the aim of upholding the rights of workers from the new Member States.
The free movement of persons is a basic principle applying to all citizens, and any limitation on it whatsoever can only be temporary and must be expressed strictly within the spirit of the treaties.
As stipulated in the Accession Treaties, Member States – based on their own experiences with the labour market – will lift these restrictions gradually between 2004 and 2011, and the European Commission and European Parliament will also evaluate the situation, in the light of the experiences of the Member States.
The position of the European institutions carries a political message, and it is primarily meant to clarify, for the over 450 million citizens of the European Union, the pan-European interest in the extremely important issue of the movement of workers.
In other words: what is the interest of the European Union as an important player in world politics and world economy?
The solution is unequivocal: we must increase mobility within the European Union, and we must encourage, with all available means, the creation of a single European labour market, which should be as flexible as possible.
The road to economic development – in line with the Lisbon Strategy – leads primarily through the increase of mobility and the utilisation of the occupational reserves represented by the inactive population.
An important step within the process of increasing mobility is to lift the transitional restrictions affecting new Member States, as soon as possible.
Several Member States already agreed to do this in May 2006, and we can only hope that in the course of the following years – perhaps even before May 2009 – other Member States will follow them, because it is important to emphasise that the legal possibility for the other Member States to make a similar decision is always available.
Experiences have unequivocally shown that the presence of workers from new Member States in the old Member States who decided to open their markets fully in 2004 has not caused labour market or economic tensions.
Therefore, the conclusion is clear: the most advantageous course of action for the European Union and its Member States is for the affected governments to lift the system of transitional measures restricting free employment within the Union, as soon as possible.
Thank you for your attention, and I would like to thank all my colleagues, the political groups and the European Commission for their cooperation.
Many arrive in our Member States and graft many hours for little pay.
On the initiative of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, a draft Parliamentary resolution was drawn up, which the Committee approved on 21 March by an overwhelming majority.
I would like to remind you that both employers’ groups and the European Trade Union Confederation are requesting that the transitional measures be scrapped immediately.
Recognition of that right requires transitional periods to be lifted at the earliest opportunity.
Secondly, the report rightly points out the benefits gained by countries that did not impose transitional periods and opened up their labour markets immediately.
Thirdly, it is important that Member State citizens should not be discriminated against in favour of third-country nationals on the European Union’s labour markets.
We would also like to thank Mr&#160;Őry for his work. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the Group of the Greens is in favour of freedom of movement, and endorses Mr Őry’s even-handed report, for transitional periods, popular though they are with our own people, promise no success.
The transitional rules are forcing people to work outside the law and thereby to become even cheaper labour and the object of brutal exploitation without the protection of labour law, without social security and without the certainty of actually being paid.
There is even greater pressure on wages in vulnerable areas and in the labour markets affected, for wages agreements have no effect on the black market, which operates according to its own rules and cannot be monitored.
Those governments that still hold to transitional periods are encouraging people to work outside of the law and on its fringes, thereby doing much more damage to social cohesion.
Greater transparency brings with it better monitoring of labour markets.
The only really effective protection against things going wrong on the labour market is pro-active measures to bring it into order. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the lack of freedom of movement for workers from what I shall still call the ‘new’ Member States results in many people being forced into unregistered work, intolerable working and living conditions, and into a state of lawlessness.
As is well known, this is a freedom that has existed for workers since the foundation of the European Community in 1957.
I want to argue in favour of the freedom of movement being given to all workers living in the EU with immediate effect and of the introduction of social standards and minimum wages that keep people out of poverty.
Mr&#160;President, very recently we experienced a bitter disappointment with the free market in services, but now we see that only a few of the governments of the older Member States are prepared to open their markets to workers from the new Member States.
The majority of governments, in continuing to restrict the number of workers from the new Member States, are in fact struggling with more serious problems concerning immigration from non-EU countries.
Finally, I call on those young French people who are protesting, disappointed in their government because of its discriminatory legislation against them, to come to the new Member States and to launch careers there.
Only three Member States of the previous EU of 15 admitted their workers without restriction: Ireland, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
Ireland rejected the Nice Treaty the first time and only accepted it later due to impressive gerrymandering in a second referendum.
Sweden only joined the EU after a bare 1% majority in its referendum.
You even threw out his seven-year budget – his precious rescue attempt – with an overwhelming vote on the Böge report.
So I am now in the very happy position of saying to you: do as the United Kingdom, Ireland and Sweden have done.
We should be resorting to an employment policy of this nature in order to save the Lisbon Strategy.
Public acceptance was dependent on the Member States having the right to limit the free movement of labour in line with the conditions prevailing on their own labour markets.
The effect of continued flows of migrants to countries with high unemployment is neither to create new jobs nor to make businesses more competitive.
Global competition demands of all the EU’s Member States that they create the conditions for it, by, for example, reforming their social security systems.
This sort of posturing does no more than risk leaving our single European project by the roadside. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report by Mr&#160;Őry, whom I would like at this point to congratulate on his work, could turn out to be a real boon for European workers.
The free movement of workers must form one of the factors for promoting social progress, one of the tools for creating a barrier to social dumping.
The end of the transitional arrangements will force employers to provide their employees with decent living conditions in accordance with social legislation in the host country.
We cannot accept a situation where some employers exploit the different nationalities of their employees to reduce their operating costs, in the same way as others play the stock market.
And you are right, Commissioner, we now need to talk in terms of European citizens.
It can be done, but the checks need to be strengthened so that the first beneficiaries of this measure do not become its first victims. &#160;&#160; I welcome your comments on the citizens of third countries and this problem in general.
I congratulate the rapporteur for preparing a very balanced report.
As we react to the challenges of today's global economy, I believe that the abolition of obstacles to the movement of citizens and labour in the European Union's market is one of the main goals of the Lisbon Strategy and one of the factors stimulating economic growth.
In addition, it can be concluded that citizens of the new Member States have complemented, but not replaced citizens of the old Member States in the labour markets of the latter.
Statistical data from European Union Member States indicates that immigration from third countries exceeds the flow of immigration in the heart of the European Union.
We should congratulate and rejoice in the decision of those countries which have decided to open their labour markets to the new European Union countries from May this year.
As many have said, equality of treatment is a key principle for European citizens, which should apply to employment conditions and access to services within our Member States across the Union.
However, in a debate where we are talking about third-country nationals, it is crucial that we are also very clear – as the rapporteur has been – that we are not talking about rolling back the hard-won rights of those individuals, but extending the rights to which our new Member States are entitled.
We have heard a number of arguments over the past few months in favour of maintaining transitional periods.
The positive experiences of Ireland should encourage other countries which introduced transitional arrangements to lift these restrictions.
Sinn Féin and the trade union movement support the decision not to introduce transitional arrangements in Ireland.
However, we must go further than this: we cannot ignore the issue of employment conditions and the exploitation of workers.
Even in Ireland, unscrupulous employers have used the lack of free movement of workers in the EU to introduce discrimination as regards salaries and working conditions based on nationality.
Mrs Oomen-Ruijten mentioned the restrictions placed on social security.
We must also combat any discrimination in access to social protection for EU citizens who travel to another Member State to work or to seek work. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr&#160;Őry, the initiator and author of the report on the transitional arrangements restricting the free movement of workers on EU labour markets.
In its initial version this document already rightly indicated that the impossibility of being legally employed in the majority of the so-called old Member States fosters irregular employment and the exploitation of workers.
Mr&#160;Őry also appropriately highlights the fact that in certain European Union Member States more restrictions are currently imposed on the movement of workers from the new Member States than was the case when the Treaty on Accession was signed.
In addition, the report’s author clearly states that there have been no negative social or economic consequences for the countries that have already opened up their labour markets.
Mr&#160;Őry’s initial draft was also presented to Parliament’s Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for discussion and a subsequent vote, and the draft was improved considerably by this process.
In the version tabled by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, Parliament comes out clearly in support of the citizens and their right to the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the Treaties.
The House should make a clear and unequivocal statement defending fundamental rights and freedoms.
It should stand up for the Community’s interests and for the interests of all European Union citizens, over and above specific national concerns.
The rapporteur, Mr&#160;Őry, has handled this topic skilfully, without causing division among the Member States.
In his report, he focuses on the real effects of citizens from the new Member States entering the labour markets of the fifteen old Member States.
There is no doubt that, in addition to the German, Austrian and French attitudes to the transitional period, divergent opinions also exist among the new Member States, as the transitional period has gradually become a&#160;sensitive political issue there as well.
We adopted the transitional measures during the accession talks, as part of the deal.
Discussions over the Services Directive have already revealed absurd situations in connection with transitional periods and now, with regard to Directive 109, it also appears that a&#160;legal conflict has arisen with the preferential rules clause.
Of course, the efficient operation of the internal market is based upon the free movement of capital, goods, services and workers.
On the other hand, it is plain to see that all those who have opened up their markets are making progress and their economic development is noteworthy.
Any country which decides to further close its labour market must do so, in my view, on a rational basis and acting as an individual, rather than as part of a bloc of countries.
If we want the European Union to be able to compete successfully with other states, it must fully implement in its internal market the free movement of capital, goods and services as well as the free movement of workers. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, essentially justified though the desire is that the transitional periods for the free movement of workers – which constitute a barrier to mobility within Europe – be done away with, the superficiality and vagueness of the Commission’s study do little if anything to make that easier.
The fact that some 30&#160;speakers from many different parties want to contribute to this debate is confirmation of that.
Many people have already referred to the basic four freedoms of the EU.
The problem has not been the legal immigration into our countries, but the illegal immigration to other countries that has propelled the growth of the black economy.
I should like to ask the Commissioner to use his great personal authority as well as that of the Commission to encourage Finland to maintain this issue as a very high point on its agenda in its forthcoming Presidency and to report back at the end of its Presidency on the progress it has made so that it can inspire others to follow its example.
I hope we can say to new Member States ‘there are no second-class citizens in Europe’ and to old Member States ‘it is time to open your borders and open your minds’. &#160;&#160; – The free movement of workers is one of the cornerstones of European cooperation.
The transitional arrangements must not unnecessarily hamper freedom of movement, and we must demonstrate solidarity and openness towards all Europeans.
However, the transitional rules must only be abolished once we have made sure that people travelling here from Eastern Europe are not being exploited.
The transitional rules in Denmark serve as protection against exploitation and ensure that workers receive the wages provided for by collective agreements.
The transitional rules have therefore made it possible to monitor the influx of workers from Eastern Europe so that efforts could be concentrated on those employers who have tried to circumvent the rules governing wages and working conditions.
This distrust is misplaced, because we can see that, in the 15 countries where the restrictions have been lifted, there have been no massive influxes.
The French Prime Minister has also indicated that France would anticipate this movement by lifting these restrictions in a gradual and controlled manner.
The resolution adopted by the European Trade Union Confederation in December 2005 opens up paths that reconcile the opening up of borders with appropriate protection.
The amendments adopted by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs go down this route, in order to ensure that employment law is applied in the Member States, specifically to ensure that Community standards are implemented, in particular those in the posting of workers directive, and in order to look into the creation of a European centre to coordinate the inspection services of the Member States.
By producing standardised statistics on Community migration, we will be able to set up the toolkit for a social Europe within the Union, which will confirm that the free movement of workers must not be synonymous with dumping or the lowest common social denominator, but must be a factor in the economic dynamism that will enable us to iron out pockets of under-employment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I congratulate Mr Őry on producing an excellent report.
I know that the rapporteur has felt pressured to table a compromise saying that Member States should consider abolishing those measures and specifically mentioning the three Member States that did not introduce them in the first place.
My second point concerns equal treatment.
The rapporteur and others here today have made the point forcefully that it is not just a question of making sure that A8 workers have the right to freedom of movement of labour, we have to ensure inspection and enforcement regimes grant them full equal treatment and prevent exploitation in the 15.
The Legal Service points out that Article 11 of the Directive says that Member States ‘may’ restrict equal treatment for third-country nationals in certain cases.
The only way to guarantee equal treatment is to end transitional measures. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, despite the demands made by the Őry report, I am firmly convinced that both the transitional periods and freedom of movement can be maintained by those Member States that think it necessary to do so.
There is in this House so much talk of subsidiarity, yet suddenly, where the free movement of workers is concerned, Brussels and Strasbourg claim to know better than those on the ground in Germany or Austria.
My country must continue to regulate access to the labour market for at least the next three years.
By way of conclusion, let me point out that it was with this very problem in mind that there were great popular misgivings about the eastward enlargement, and yet we were always able to say: ‘There is nothing to fear; these issues have been regulated by treaty for five or seven years.’ &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, 1&#160;May 2004 is a day that I shall always remember.
The symbolism was clear and, standing there, I felt strongly that people did not feel that they were entering something new but felt that they were being reunited with something of which they had always been a part.
The EU’s ten new Member States are ten old countries of Europe.
Evaluations carried out now show unambiguously that Sweden has not in the least been exposed to the social dumping invoked by the Social Democrats as a scare tactic.
The only correct thing to do is to refrain from introducing transitional rules, and I hope that, in future, Europe will be influenced more by reason than by fear. &#160;&#160; We all know perfectly well that the free movement of workers is one of the four fundamental freedoms on which the whole idea of the European Community is based.
However, we also know that this freedom is only valid and fully established only for citizens of the fifteen old Member States, while citizens of the eight new Member States, which became members on 1 May 2004, are subject to the provisions of the transition period and this transition period may last as long as seven years in accordance with the 2+3+2 year formula.
As if this were not enough, according to certain EU directives, in some cases, long-term residents from third countries enjoy rights, which give them a more privileged status than citizens of the eight new Member States, to live and enter the labour market in fifteen EU Member States.
As the first transition period ends on 30 April, we have a perfect opportunity to evaluate its consequences and effects on the economies of both the fifteen old Member States and the eight new Member States and to make appropriate decisions.
It is difficult to come to objective conclusions, but today, it is already obvious that immigration from third countries greatly exceeds the flow of immigration at the heart of the EU, that is in the fifteen old Member States and the whole of the enlarged EU.
It is also obvious that the countries which opened their labour markets to citizens of the new countries have really only benefited, while the transition periods encourage illegal work, unfair working conditions, discrimination against and exploitation of migrant workers.
It is appropriate to pose a key question, namely should labour markets be opened when there are job vacancies and a shortage of indigenous workers, in other words a shortage of people willing to work?
I referred to a lack of people willing to work, not to the unemployed.
Finally, it is important to prepare for flexibility and mobility of the labour force.
Ladies and gentlemen, the current Accession Treaty therefore provides for a gradual system made up of several stages, designed so that the final stage, in 2011, will be as short as possible.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The report of Mr Csaba Őry on the transitional system restricting the free movement of workers on the labour market of the European Union refers to the fundamental values of the European Union.
The knowledge and feeling of belonging to the European Community can only be strengthened in citizens of new Member States if Member States provide equal rights in the area of employment and access to social benefits.
I agree with the proposal calling on the Commission, the Member States, the social partners and the competent bodies of the private and public sector to develop a fair and transparent procedure to ensure that citizens of new Member States can work in all Member States of the European Union without discrimination, for appropriate wages, and with the provision of acceptable health and safety conditions.
The trans-European energy networks will foster interconnections, interoperability and the development of energy networks in the enlarged Europe, and in turn stimulate the effective operation of the internal market.
The construction of the future internal gas and electricity market is perhaps the most relevant objective of the proposal for a decision before us.
This approach to trans-European energy networks mirrors the approach followed for trans-European land transport networks.
I therefore voted in favour of the Laperrouze report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there is no doubt about the importance of the campaign against undeclared employment as a means of counteracting negative trends in the labour markets, but the free movement of workers – contrary to what was hoped – will not enable us to get a grip on this problem.
We are not being energetic enough in counteracting these developments, and it is for that reason that I have voted against this report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the MEPs belonging to the Free Democratic Party did participate in the vote on the report (No A6-0086/2006) on the guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States.
We did this out of a desire to express solidarity with our colleagues in promoting our group’s concerns, whilst nevertheless remaining convinced that employment policy is not a matter for the EU, and that this should be dealt with by the Member States rather than by us here in Strasbourg or in Brussels.
This does not contribute to greater confidence in Parliament, and it legitimises the position of those who want to see ever greater EU intervention even in such areas of policy, in this case employment policy, that should be the province of the individual Member States and be exposed to competition.
I have, however, chosen to vote in favour, and for an important reason: freedom of movement of the labour force.
Those decisions that have permitted transitional rules that discriminate against workers in the new Member States are a flagrant departure from the principle of the freedom of movement of labour and an absolutely disgraceful way of acting towards the EU’s new Member States which have been very enthusiastic about joining the EU.
Unfortunately the majority in Parliament rejected our proposals.
It retains the Commission's liberalism, but at the same time states that the European institutions should give themselves greater control over self-governed nations.
However, it is precisely on these points that we can find the answer to our problems.
Their concerns rightly focus on the question of those excluded from labour markets, such as younger and older people and other similarly marginalised citizens, either in their own countries or in other Member States.
I feel, however, that there is a balance to be struck between challenging Community and national institutions and advocating appropriate, effective solutions.
This process has been stepped up since 2000 with the adoption of the Lisbon Strategy.
Although the report claims it seeks to combat dominant positions and monopolies, it accepts the guidelines of the Commission report for 2004, focusing on energy and telecommunications, and advocates once again the total liberalisation of the gas and electricity sector, a priority for the March 2006 Spring Council.
Furthermore, in the communications sector, which has already been substantially liberalised, the emphasis is placed on competition in the broadband sector and on the internationalisation of production.
Finally, it emphasises the Commission's total lack of self-criticism when its ill-judged decisions lead to economic disasters, as in the Rhodia affair, for example.
In the context of vicious global competition, that will generate nothing but unemployment. &#160;&#160; – European competition policy has rules and objectives which will destroy small and medium-sized businesses and allow the European monopolies to take over, by financing and privatising them, rather than consumer interests, as you hypocritically maintain.
Moreover, the word 'competitiveness' is synonymous with greater exploitation of the workers, with the massacre of their rights and with reductions in the reward for labour, when contemporary requirements are increasing.
Legislation on competition is at the service of the anti-grass roots Lisbon Strategy and its objective is to control, prevent and shrink any subsidies or state aid to satisfy grass-roots requirements which the workers may have extracted with their struggles.
They constitute the hope for radical change against the exploitative policies of the EU and the governments, which is why we are with them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to say a few words about Hammerstein Mintz’s report and voting behaviour.
It is perfectly obvious that the Council meetings should be open, but in points 14 and 15 this Parliament voted in favour of the meetings of COREPER, the Permanent Representatives – that is to say the ambassadors of the EU – being open, and those of the Conciliation Committee too.
We can certainly insist on this, but one would assume that the Council also has the right to insist that all our group meetings, preparatory meetings and all meetings of the Conference of Presidents should be open.
Besides the fact that this position is contrary to Article 1(2) of the Treaty on European Union (Maastricht Treaty of 7&#160;February&#160;1992), which lays down the principle of open European decision-making, it also does not provide the openness that our fellow citizens expect from the running of the European institutions.
Pending the ratification of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, the European Council must, as a matter of urgency, reform its own rules of procedure to anticipate this move towards greater openness in its deliberations when meeting in its legislative capacity, whilst maintaining privacy for exchanges between Heads of State or Government. &#160;&#160; .
All negotiations require a certain level of confidentiality. &#160;&#160; We are of the view that the Council’s and Coreper’s meetings must be public when those organisations act in a legislative capacity.
This is an important democratic principle if voters are to be able to hold elected representatives accountable.
Unfortunately, the draft report contains a number of points in support of the adoption of the draft Constitutional Treaty rejected in the referenda in France and the Netherlands.
Irrespective of the outcome of these votes, we wish however to vote in favour of the report as a whole since reforms relating to openness in the Council’s and Coreper’s work is a priority issue, and we wish to put pressure on the Council to alter its Rules of Procedure.
The European Parliament Ombudsman considers that the meetings of the Council, when it acts in its legislative capacity, are not open to the public and the Council's refusal to decide to open up these meetings is an instance of maladministration.
This timely report follows on from the British Presidency's call for greater transparency.
I particularly welcome reference to the need for the Commission to submit a legislative proposal on ‘the right of access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents, and general principles and limits on grounds of public or private interest governing this right of access’.
I only hope we will see the aims of this report backed up by action. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in the WTO, the EU is under pressure in various areas.
Since that surely cannot be what these negotiations are intended to achieve, I have voted against this report.
The European Union has the chance to accomplish this by acting as a strong community on the international stage.
If we do not do this, there will be a high political price to pay, in particular through the rise of extremism.
Like certain Nobel economics prize-winners, we feel that free trade can only benefit all sides when it is between countries at the same level of development, and that trade between other countries needs to be regulated; this, by the way, does not rule out favourable trade provisions for the developing countries.
Neither does it mean that each 'zone' formed in this way needs a common trade policy centralised in the hands of a supranational bureaucracy.
In short, free trade is not an end in itself. &#160;&#160; This own-initiative report sheds light on the EU’s double standards in international trade policy.
This means that in relation to these sectors attempts are being made to remove any restrictions to foreign investment, cross-border establishment and provision of services, nationality requirements and limitations on competition.
In other words, attempts are being made to remove mechanisms that are fundamental to less (or more) economically developed States being able to guarantee their development and meet the needs of their people.
Firstly, it should not be difficult to understand that international trade has tremendous potential to promote development and prosperity.
On the one hand, the more commercial transactions, the higher the level of dependency and cooperation between the Member States.
On the other hand, the more intense the international trade, the greater the economic prosperity of the various countries, which will help to improve people’s living conditions and to make the world a safer place.
I fully agree with the fact that no country should be forced to liberalise any service sector and that sectors such as health, water supply, education and audiovisual services in particular must be excluded from liberalisation.
This part of the amendment was narrowly defeated: 291 in favour, 299 against and 20 abstentions.
For that reason, I did not want to vote in favour during the final vote. &#160;&#160; – Τhe Kommounistiko Komma Elladas voted against the report on the assessment of the Doha Round, because it moves in and repeats the reactionary, anti-grass roots framework of the WTO Ministerial Conference in Hong Kong and the extravagant claims of Euro-unifying capital, as defined and promoted in splendid cooperation with the USA.
The objective of the ΕU and the USA during the negotiations which are under way is even greater exploitation of the peoples and the wealth-producing resources of the developed, capitalist countries and even more of the developing and less developed countries.
The excessive red tape that makes our economy less flexible, the fact that we do not have enough world leaders and that our small and medium-sized enterprises are progressing less quickly than those in the United States of America, low unemployment levels and low mean working times, and, finally, weak investment in vocational training, research and development: all of this to a large extent explains the current situation.
The economic and social situation remains precarious, with increasing inequality, unacceptable levels of poverty and unemployment, and economic growth remaining slow and unstable.
The rights of the workers and social security have been undermined, greater flexibility in labour markets have been imposed (the magical concept of ‘flexicurity’, the CPE (First Employment Contract) in France being a prime example), the increase in the actual and official retirement age has been justified, the liberalisation of the energy sector has been promoted and the liberalisation of services has been called for, thus contributing towards labour deregulation and social and environmental dumping.
Besides this hypocrisy, I should like to underline three points that I found surprising: there is a complete lack of reference to the European Central Bank's unjustified increases of interest rates, which are contributing to the stagnation of the eurozone; the report views the European Union as a perfectly homogeneous area, made up of countries facing absolutely identical problems, while in fact the situation has become extremely heterogeneous since the last enlargement; and the call for European legislation that is 'compatible with that of our competitors' could constitute an unacceptable call for the lowest common social and environmental denominator.
The report does not support any of the guidelines that would allow an alternative policy: maintenance of purchasing power, revaluation of salaries to revive consumer spending and growth, support for ambitious public investment in modernisation and employment, upward harmonisation of taxation and social standards to combat dumping, and the creation of a real economic government that has weight with the European Central Bank. &#160;&#160; , . – The EU broad economic policy guidelines for 2006 include all the anti-grass roots measures which will bring about higher prices and greater inequality, poverty, uncertainty and unhappiness for the working class and grass-roots classes and greater wealth for Euro-unifying capital.
I have supported this report in its intention to alleviate the costs for many of the poorest countries for healthcare and drugs.
The EU Member States, and their political leaders, have a duty to promote a political environment that is favourable to economic reform.
If we have a common European corporate tax regime, we will lose one of the greatest factors in maintaining our economic independence and our current state of prosperity.
Whilst we seek greater coordination of tax authorities in trying to assist SMEs involved in cross-border trade, we acknowledge that this issue remains the competence of the EU Member States. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Commission communication on the amended proposal for a directive on services in the internal market and Communication on Directive 96/71/EC (posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services).
You will find the amendments you have voted to Article 16 – freedom to provide services – and Article 17 – derogations from freedom to supply services – reflected in the modified proposal.
The modified proposal also provides for the exclusion of taxation, temporary work agencies, security services and the audiovisual sector from the scope of the proposal.
The Commission considers this is not required given that Article 3 already provides that in case of conflict between a specific directive and this proposal it is the former that will prevail.
If we want to avoid diverging interpretation in Member States, then we must provide legal certainty.
The text of the modified proposal specifies that the exclusion from the directive concerns those social services relating to social housing, children and support to families and persons in need which are provided by the state or by providers mandated by the state.
In addition, the Commission will come forward in the next few weeks with a communication on social services of general interest, reflecting the importance these services have for our citizens.
The decision to remove all interaction between the services proposal and labour law has in my opinion been one of the most important elements in creating a more positive atmosphere around this new services proposal.
In any event, the modified proposal is clear in this regard: labour law is completely removed.
I just want to add that this communication is a vital element in our efforts to reach agreement in the Council on the services proposal.
In particular, we have made it clear in Article&#160;3 that the directive does not affect private international law and that, as a consequence, consumers will in principle benefit from the protection granted to them by the consumer protection rule laid down in the consumer legislation in force in their Member State.
Heads of Government at the European Council two weeks ago supported this.
The communication also includes proposals aimed at helping the Member States to improve the practical implementation of administrative cooperation, access to information and supervising adherence to the directive on the posting of workers.
The Commission announced this communication last February following voting on the Services Directive in the European Parliament, stating at the time that any annulment of Articles 24 and 25, which contain provisions on administrative obstacles to the posting of workers, would be decided on the basis of majority voting.
The Directive is the main instrument for ensuring the free movement of services, and at the same time the main instrument for preventing social dumping.
The legal explanation approved by the Commission today provides the necessary clarification in respect of which control measures may be used by Member States when monitoring whether the employment conditions set out in the Directive are being upheld.
The aim is to ensure that Member States act in accordance with the principle of freedom of movement for services, while at the same time avoiding social dumping.
It is not considered reasonable that the duty to make a preliminary systematic declaration should be applied only on the grounds that a posted service is involved; the duty to retain documents is, of course, acknowledged, but this should apply only to documents that are absolutely necessary and which enable the authorities in the Member State to carry out effective support and control activities.
It does not apply, for example, to social insurance documents, because these are dealt with under Directive 1408/71/EEC.
The Commission intends to have easier access to information on employment conditions for workers and companies, and improved levels of cooperation between intra-state authorities.
It is also essential to improve the resources available to workers and companies, in order to ensure the effective enforcement of employee regulations.
I regard as fairly important the suggestion that it is right for Member States to include in the information they provide details of the responsibilities that firms posting workers must fulfil, and not just general references to the employment law or legal system that applies in the Member State in question.
Encouraged by the Commission, we tabled proposals for sweeping changes which were subsequently met with a wall-to-wall majority in the plenary meeting.
Fortunately, the consumer remains sufficiently protected in the end; the red tape is being trimmed down; and the freedom to provide services, as enshrined in Articles 16 and 17, is guaranteed.
Whilst a different cooperation procedure may have been worked out for inspection purposes, we count on the Council to ensure that it works just as well as the one we had proposed.
This is something we would like to work towards, and we hope that the Austrian Council Presidency, with whom we are always prepared to enter into dialogue, will lead us to a directive that benefits the self-employed, professionals, consumers of services, consumers, employees, economic growth as a whole and creates many additional jobs.
Commissioner McCreevy, my dear Charlie, as rapporteur and on behalf of my group, let me say how pleased I am that the Commission has kept the promise it made to this House and has done as it was bidden by the overwhelming majority in the plenary.
What we can say is that a crucial step has been taken in the direction of a social Europe, and I can tell the Commissioner that I am particularly pleased that the main bone of contention – the country of origin principle – has been binned.
I am also very glad that you have done as this House has proposed and removed from the scope of the services directive such important areas as part-time working, security firms, the gambling industry and the whole of the health sector, although there is still a question mark over the exclusion of social services, and we will have to have further discussions on how the Commission's thinking in this respect is actually to be evaluated and interpreted.
I am also glad that, contrary to what had formerly been feared, the services directive will be treated as secondary to the sectoral directives, something that this House saw as important, particularly in relation to the Posting of Workers Directive.
By it, we, its Members, have demonstrated that we take seriously our rights in the service of the public.
The ALDE Group takes the view that creating jobs is the best social structure there is, more so than protecting what we have achieved thus far.
Unfortunately, there are a number of factors and sectors that remain excluded, which Member States could exploit in order to protect their own markets.
Sometimes, as is the case in France, this can cause problems if you want to reform in order to secure our current achievements and prosperity, not least for the sake of our children.
Politicians are there to take long-term decisions and, occasionally, to be re-elected in the very short term.
For example, as you mentioned yourself, the definitions should become less ambiguous so that it becomes more difficult for Member States to protect their incoming services from others.
After all, mobility and dynamism in the economy will need to be improved and strengthened in the internal market if we are to be capable of competing with other large economic regions in the world.
I thank you and hope that a positive outcome can be achieved very quickly during the forthcoming Council. &#160;&#160; .Mr President, Commissioners, I think we should be delighted that the Commission has yielded to the double pressure of the European Parliament and of the Council.
Our group is in favour of a specific directive on services of general economic interest because we fear that their inclusion in this directive may stand in the way of any new proposal by the Commission.
The second objection concerns the compromise reached on Article&#160;16, which does not increase the legal certainty of the text and in fact takes us back to the case law of the Court, as well as to the requirement for the Court to give a ruling on a case by case basis, contrary to the wishes of the Commission and of Parliament.
In the case of the so-called ‘Bolkestein’ draft directive, where are we in this respect?
The points scored at first reading in Parliament by the opponents of the original text are undeniable.
Finally, the exclusion of labour law takes us back to the law currently in force.
If, on the other hand, it turned out that the Commission has included Parliament’s demands in its new revised draft directive, that would be both a fresh sign of the growing importance of our Assembly within the European institutional triangle and also, and perhaps most importantly, this would be the confirmation of the formative influence of the citizens’ sudden emergence in the European debate, especially since a certain 29 May 2005.
That just shows you that our group has no intention of denying these developments.
Apart from the exceptions stated, the Directive in its amended form in fact reinforces rules establishing a form of integration that is no longer based on harmonisation of legislation, but on freedom of the market.
The amended text of the directive on services lacks precision and its wording is frequently unclear.
This was the result of a most unfortunate compromise between the two largest political groups in the House.
To all intents and purposes, the document it has prepared on posting workers is simply a description of the barriers now in place.
It does not contain proposals for sanctions of any kind against countries blocking posted workers.
Success in this endeavour is crucial for you and for the Union as a whole, but it calls for greater courage and determination on the part of the Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Council and the Commission have taken note of the vote on the Gebhardt report on the Services Directive, and we can only be pleased about that.
Nonetheless, a number of grey areas remain, particularly in relation to services of general economic interest, and it will be up to the Council to resolve them, in agreement with Parliament.
The Commission intends to revise, and make more liberal, the directive on the posting of workers, which could partially invalidate the European Parliament’s legislative function.
Finally, we condemn in the strongest terms the Commission’s decision to reprimand France on the grounds that it adopted decrees against hostile takeover bids in 11 sensitive and strategic sectors, particularly in relation to defence.
The Commission prefers to go against its own camp rather than to defend Europe’s interests at the WTO or in world markets.
It is therefore up to the Member States to correct this institutional and political anomaly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Commissioner McCreevy for fully living up to the pledge that he gave to us.
You did not say in your speech that this directive contains a hundred separate measures directed at Member States to remove barriers to service businesses, to reduce bureaucracy, to simplify administration and to give more information.
My colleague from Poland seems to have ignored that entirely in what he said just now.
We also have as a central clause freedom to provide services, proposed by this side of the House.
I am absolutely convinced, and I am sure you will confirm it, that the formulation fully respects – and I use the word from the directive – the rules under which service providers operate in their own Member State.
In conclusion, I would like to thank Commissioner Špidla very much, because we asked for a statement on the posting of workers directive as part of the compromise for removing Articles&#160;24 and 25 of the proposal, and he has given us that.
I think it could go further, but I am delighted that the two are linked together, which was a key demand from this side of the House. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add my thanks to the Commission, which has remained as faithful as it possibly could to Parliament’s position.
I have to say, Commissioner, that the rather limited definition of social services gives me some cause for concern, and I would like Parliament and the Council to spend some time thinking of a better definition.
In addition, with the ban on previous permissions or registrations, you run the risk of undermining the system of licences, for example in the context of temporary employment.
Only then, I believe, will we have sufficient guarantees in place to create an internal market for services that function well while fully respecting the social ground rules. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in our opinion, it is imperative that the final text that we must arrive at fully preserves the balance achieved by the Members of our Parliament.
The Commission’s original draft was a clumsy text, ill conceived and unwise.
Parliament has now completely revised this text, thus making it possible to complete the internal market while at the same time preserving our social model.
The Posting of Workers Directive establishes the principle of ‘equal pay for equal work in the same place’, yet I have to tell Commissioner Špidla that I do wonder how, in view of the criminal energy expended on circumventing this principle in practice, one local foreman or one registration on the day work begins is meant to be enough to ensure that the Member States can keep tabs on what is going on.
The Posting of Workers Directive must continue to have the protection of workers as its primary purpose. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to add to the words of thanks that have been spoken to Commissioners McCreevy and Špidla.
What is now before us represents a big step forward.
Having said that, wages and working conditions can also be skirted, which leads to improper competition on the labour market.
Happily, though, the European Parliament has done its job, and a qualified majority of Parliament has rewritten the text that was submitted at first reading on the Commission’s original proposal in order to make it a respectable instrument that encourages the free provision of services, while avoiding any form of social dumping.
However, there are huge problems with applying the rules in practice.
The EU and the Member States must together ensure that it is possible, for example via the Internet and quick caches, to obtain better information.
I am looking forward to the Commission taking initiatives in this area and ensuring that the Posting of Workers Directive operates better in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, thank you for presenting the guidelines on the posting of workers.
The Commission’s document outlines the administrative barriers illegally imposed on firms posting their workers abroad for work purposes.
Unfortunately, however, the document does not propose any effective ways of resolving the present situation.
The Commission has demonstrated quite clearly that it lacks the will to ensure compliance with Community law.
The barriers remain firmly in place in spite of the rulings, the Treaty and the Directive.
I fear that the proposal to prepare another report on progress achieved in eliminating barriers in a year’s time simply amounts to a further postponement of such action.
While I cannot be more specific today, I can say that at a minimum it will cover the issue of patient mobility and reimbursement for health expenditure.
It is true that there has been a degree of negative comment in some of the media, but views will change with time and when people have had more time to digest what was voted on by Parliament.
I have vigorously sold the modified proposal to the Council of Ministers.
So those who defended the original proposals would have to recognise the political reality: it was never going to become a piece of legislation.
What I as Commissioner and the College of Commissioners recognised was the political reality that we could not keep trumpeting how brilliant the proposal was while knowing in our hearts that it was going to remain on the shelf.
We adopted the pragmatic approach of saying that we could see whether we could get a broad agreement among the Members of the European Parliament from the major groups because, if we could succeed in doing that, we would have a better chance of seeing the revised proposal through the Council of Ministers.
In the meetings of the Council of Ministers that I attended there were as many divisions as there were in the European Parliament.
Now that we have a revised proposal, we all should be prepared to sell it and to recognise that it is a major step forward.
In the continuing debate between the social partners and representatives of the Member States, and especially also within the framework of parliamentary debates, the view has now taken hold that the Directive is fit for purpose and that there is no pressing reason for it to be subjected to any fundamental legislative reworking, although its practical application may give rise to a number of problems.
It is not of course the aim of the Directive to create artificial barriers, and this means that every single barrier and every administrative procedure must be weighed up from the following standpoint: is it necessary and essential to the greater protection of workers?
I can provide a typical example: the protection of workers unquestionably requires the use of official documents, but we can easily imagine that some documents may be unnecessary from this standpoint.
The communication will, on the one hand, clarify some of the principal legal questions, because it is necessary to have precise and reliable interpretations of court decisions, and on the other hand it will put forward a number of other procedures that might be adopted with the further development and elaboration of the political concept of services in the public interest.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Services Directive and the related communication, along with the additional negotiations and subsequent steps, provide an example of exceptionally productive cooperation between the Commission and Parliament, within the framework of some highly demanding parts of our legislation.
Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I might be allowed one more comment, already touched on by my colleague Mr&#160;McCreevy, which is that we do indeed expect some new legislative proposals to be formulated in relation to health care, and particularly in relation to the movement of patients within the health system. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am surprised that the European Union’s Austrian Presidency is not taking a stand on this very important communication from the Commission.
Listening to Chancellor Schüssel, he speaks highly of the compromise reached by the European Parliament, and I should very much like to know whether the Austrian Presidency is now going to do its best to ensure that the Council adopts this new position of Parliament and of the Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr Goebbels, I would hesitate to describe your speech as a point of order, although it does affect the order of the debates.
I think, in fact, that we need to guard against social dumping by carefully examining the rules of the market, especially as regards wages and working conditions.
The ultimate aim of the European Union is in fact not to increase the volume of business but to create a competitive society that serves its citizens, a society that helps to raise the living standards of its members in every respect. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate ‘Better law-making’, which deals with four reports: - the report by Monica Frassoni, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the Commission's 21st and 22nd annual reports on monitoring the application of Community law (2003 and 2004) [2005/2150(INI)] (A6-0089/2006), - the report by Bert Doorn, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on better lawmaking 2004: application of the principle of subsidiarity 12th annual report [2005/2055(INI)] (A6-0082/2006), - the report by Arlene McCarthy, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the implementation, consequences and impact of the internal market legislation in force [2004/2224(INI)](A6-0083/2006) and - the report by Giuseppe Gargani, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on a strategy for the simplification of the regulatory environment [2006/2006(INI)](A6-0080/2006). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly delighted to take the floor today, not in my usual guise as my group’s representative, but as rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs representing a broader-based majority.
As such, I should like to deliver a few messages about this report, the essential aim of which is to emphasise that the implementation of Community law forms an important part of the ‘better lawmaking’ dossier, alongside the other issues that we shall debate this afternoon.
Implementation is an important part of law primarily because the situation at European Union level is unsatisfactory, as the Commission’s report points out very effectively.
There are very serious problems particularly concerning environmental legislation as well as legislation on the internal market, and responsibility for that – there is no point in denying it – lies above all with the Member States.
It is a slow procedure that provides for relatively inadequate sanctions: in order to arrive at a positive solution for the implementation of Community law by the Member States, the procedure often leaves much to be desired and takes a very long time.
Similarly, there are interesting situations regarding the citizens’ right to reimbursement of their medical expenses.
Thirdly – and this affects us – we believe that the European Parliament should act much more specifically in the area of the implementation of Community law, not in order to change the Commission’s powers – I am aware that this is of great concern to the members of that Institution – but, on the contrary, to gain a clearer idea of what actually happens, as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and other committees do.
It is these very rules and regulations that are a source of worry and that we should discuss in more detail today.
We have seen many examples of impact assessments, and they all vary in terms of quality.
If we in this House want to benefit from impact assessments, then they should offer impartial and sound information that is readily understood.
This could be a panel of four experts in the field of impact assessment, who simply look at the impact assessments carried out by the Commission and those carried out in this House, and who then issue recommendations on that basis.
It also included another paragraph, one about the committees, which I do not want to keep from you. ‘You do not see them, you do not hear them, some 450 consulting clubs in Brussels, constantly take decisions that affect the everyday life of the citizens.’ More transparency is needed in that area too.
When comitology leads to secondary legislation, this legislation must also be verified.
The public will then see that we mean business and that we actually want this transparency.
Finally, as Mrs Frassoni already pointed out, implementation is extremely important and Parliament should devote far more attention to it.
This will contribute significantly to the proper transposal in the Member States and also to sound contacts with national parliaments.
The internal market accounts for almost one third of the Community .
Good-quality, effective and simple legislation in the internal market should open up opportunities for cross-border trade and give consumers increased choice, while protecting environmental, social and consumer rights.
That means that we also need to think of the consequences of the midnight deals and compromises that we make, and consider whether they are going to confuse or clarify laws for end users.
That is why we are asking for a fast-track infringement procedure for test cases in the internal market.
We were the first committee to commission our own impact assessment, under Mr Whitehead’s chairmanship, for amendments on the Toubon report on nominal quantities for pre-packed products.
On the pyrotechnics proposal we are conducting an impact assessment on amendments proposed by our rapporteur.
Finally, I want to quote the cases of SOLVIT, which I believe is an excellent initiative of the Commission.
I hope that today’s debate is the beginning of a process of close cooperation, sharing best practice between the institutions in a close partnership of equals, to build and restore that confidence that the doctor I mentioned was asking us to achieve for him as a consumer in the internal market. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about three aspects, starting with the issue of simplification.
There is no doubt that this House is, as a matter of principle, backing the Commission in its efforts at simplifying the lawmaking process, but I also want to make it clear that here, as in so many other instances, the devil is in the detail, and that we have to be careful not to throw the baby out with the bathwater.
A second point to which I should like the Commission to give some thought is the issue of what priorities simplification proposals should set.
The Commission should give priority to regulations, for the simple reason that regulations are directly applicable as law and have a direct effect on those members of the public who have recourse to law.
The second issue has to do with impact assessment.
An inter-institutional agreement has been in place since December 2003, according to which the Commission is, in principle, responsible for the impact assessment.
That also means, though, that it is exercising a responsibility with and on behalf of the legislature, that is to say, for Parliament and the Council, and so we believe that we in this House, too, should have – and do have – a right to be consulted as to how this impact assessment is carried out.
On 16 March, Advocate-General Sharpston delivered an opinion in the case of Spain versus the Council, in the conclusions to which she refers explicitly to the impact assessment, stating that the absence of any adequate impact assessment is an indication of the legal act having been adopted arbitrarily, and that demonstrates and confirms the Court of Justice’s increasing interest in this issue.
In preparing legislation, the Commission has come to rely very heavily on Europe-wide organisations and associations.
I have nothing against the European lobbying associations, but the processes whereby they arrive at decisions are sometimes more complex than those in the Council of Ministers, and what emerges from them is often consensus compacted into nonsense.
I believe we need still other forms of consultative machinery in order to get the information directly from those interested parties who are working at their jobs and therefore have to deal with these issues.
So, for example, the consultative machinery we came up with through the network currently engaged in developing European contract law, with which we defined a limited category of person to be consulted, could be a good example of how to improve these mechanisms. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I am glad to have the opportunity today to discuss with you an issue that is of great importance for Europe.
I know from my own, very close, contacts with the public over recent months that the issue of ‘Better Lawmaking’, along with everything that is associated with it – perhaps not as a slogan, for many of them do not know what it stands for, but as a principle – is one of the issues of greatest interest to them.
As you know, the Commission’s programme for this year is under the heading of ‘unlocking Europe’s full potential’, and rightly too.
I can say on behalf of the Council that your House’s engagement with this issue in no fewer than four reports today is very much to be welcomed.
The Council presidency continues to regard the Inter-Institutional Agreement on Better Lawmaking, to which reference has already been made today, as the framework for our cooperation.
The simplification of EU regulations is something that has a tangible effect on businesses and the public, and it is for that reason that it will be particularly efficient if it also enables us to gain greater credibility.
Commissioner Verheugen’s screening initiative and the current plans for sectoral simplification and further efforts at horizontal simplification put us on the right track.
I am also very impressed by the presence of the President and the Vice-President in this House today and by their participation in this debate, for we must encourage further progress down this road, and that is precisely what the Council and the Commission are doing by doing something to bring Europe closer to its citizens.
They also help Europe to be successful in achieving the Lisbon targets.
The Presidency of the Council is glad to see that the Commission is not only pursuing the ‘simplification of existing legislation’ by means of a general weeding-out of the , but is also planning to include in this the outcome of the Council’s efforts in this area.
We also propose that the simplification dossiers be put near the top of our agendas, and that the Council and Parliament should endeavour, where possible, to adopt simplification dossiers at first reading.
Such instruments exist; now all we have to do is to use them.
The Presidency of the Council is currently drafting a paper on the prescription of quantitative targets in this area.
The principles of subsidiarity and of proportionality are fundamental guidelines for action by the institutions in their exercise of EU competences and hence an integral part of better lawmaking.
These impact assessments by the Commission can therefore also serve as the basis for an active discussion of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
Perhaps I might take this opportunity to reiterate that we intend, in order to add depth to this discussion, to organise a conference on subsidiarity in Austria on 18 and 19 April, at which we look forward to valuable contributions from your House.
If the public are to accept the decisions we take, it is important not only that the laws we enact be comprehensible and simple, but also that we do a better job of explaining how these decisions are arrived at.
The first steps have been taken by way of the resolutions adopted last December, on the basis of which we are now attempting to give this practical expression and, where possible, to highlight other ways in which greater transparency may be achieved.
Without law, we should have to rely on continual negotiation, on the balance of power between the Member States or else on goodwill, in theory only, on cooperation and on willingness.
I believe that this is an important point of principle and here I would like to make a personal observation.
I believe that it is more necessary than ever to reaffirm those principles of a Community based on the rule of law that is our Community.
We make laws at European Union level because the Member States have agreed that certain measures should be determined at Community level.
The measures adopted must not be excessive nor go beyond what is strictly necessary.
We must avoid rules that are too prescriptive, that lead to unwarranted expense, or that may turn out to be counter-productive.
We must also eliminate the cumulative effects of rules which, in time, end up overlapping with each other, an outcome that is detrimental to businesses, to the voluntary sector, to public authorities and to the citizens.
Allow me, therefore, to congratulate the European Parliament on its excellent initiative to hold this debate on the topic of ‘better lawmaking’.
That is what clearly emerges from the various reports, which I believe provide a sound basis for our exchange of views today.
These reports and the way in which we respond to them prove that our two institutions have come a long way in recent years.
Our legislative activity is a continuous process.
We acknowledge it: we still need to make improvements to all the stages of the cycle, that is, from acts already adopted to new initiatives, via proposals currently under negotiation.
That is why the Commission has launched a vast system for better lawmaking that combines several measures: a system designed to evaluate the impact of the Commission’s important proposals; a programme designed to simplify the legislation in force and to withdraw a number of the Commission’s proposals that are awaiting consideration by Parliament and the Council; and more frequent recourse to other ways of resolving problems aside from conventional legislation, for example, self-regulation by the parties concerned or coregulation by the legislator.
All of these measures are now producing tangible results.
We recognise, as pointed out in Mr Doorn’s report on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, that quality can be improved and that quality control mechanisms must be strengthened.
It is also one reason why all Commission impact assessments are on the Europa website.
I welcome the recent agreement on the common approach to impact assessment.
This set of rules for dealing with impact assessment across all three institutions is an important step forward; it will facilitate our work together and avoid duplication of effort.
The action programme, which we adopted last year, provides for the repeal, codification, recasting or modification of some 220&#160;legal acts covering a wide range of policies.
The programme, already under way in the automobile, waste and construction sectors, will be reviewed and updated in consultation with stakeholders.
We need the Council and Parliament to speed up the adoption of simplification proposals.
I hope you support the strong commitment of this Commission to the implementation and enforcement of Community law.
As more and more policy areas mature, we should see a shift in political attention and resources towards implementation.
I believe that the reports discussed today show a shared analysis of what needs to be done.
I am convinced that if we work in partnership we can show that Europe is not about red tape and unnecessary burdens but about delivering what citizens need in the right way.
On behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I have drafted an opinion on Mr Doorn’s report.
I should like to congratulate him on it and also thank him for including, virtually in their entirety, the various paragraphs that we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, had incorporated in our opinion, based on our experience.
I would also like to endorse what Mr Winkler said and respond by adding a slightly different slant, namely that better regulation does not always mean fewer rules and regulations or deregulation, but rather more effective regulation that is mainly geared towards the outcome and end result.
This cycle of preparation, consultation, formulating rules, impact assessment and subsequently the implementation and enforcement has been mentioned by various people.
Particularly in the area of the financial provision of services, a practice has been developed in that directorate and proposed by the Lamfalussy experts committee, which we call the Lamfalussy procedure.
In this framework, it is indeed those who use the rules and regulations in practice, namely the supervisors, the economic operators, the consumers and users involved in the process, who should have far more say in terms of the content of those rules.
In this respect, I think we are all convinced of the fact that better regulation is undoubtedly important for the world of business, but that it must also result at times in more legislation.
That, Mr Barroso, is what Parliament told you very clearly, when your Commission was proposing to withdraw 68 proposals for texts and when, very clearly, in relation to Friendly Societies, we spoke of the need for legislation.
On behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I drafted an opinion on Mr Gargani’s report, which focuses on simplifying the legislation and, in that regard, I should like to make three observations.
I see it as imperative that all future legislative impact assessments should take into account the increasing level of global competition.
The prime objective of all legislation should be to allow the internal market to function without cross-border obstacles to the growth of industries.
It is unacceptable politically and economically that some Member States should seek to revert to protectionist policies.
Irish companies and other European companies are trying to make a reality of the single market and tackle the challenges of globalisation head on, and the governments touting protectionism should not stand in their way. &#160;&#160; I support the efforts of the Commission and everyone else towards better lawmaking and towards the better drafting of European Union legislation, and yet I regret, at the same time, that the Constitutional Treaty has not been adopted.
In the field of terrorism, we have already adopted 58 regulations, directives and so on – 27 of them are in the draft stage and some 15 are yet to come.
Europe is suffering from at least two forms of idealism.
These are illusions which will never become reality, so the Commission would do better to examine how these areas are regulated and, of course, how they impact on people.
People are wondering if it is really necessary for us to have so much legislation, so many institutions etc.
How, in these circumstances, can we talk to the citizens about accessibility and transparency with any credibility?
It should enable us, in the long run, to have Community and national standards that are easier to apply and less costly.
In particular, this report specifies that simplification must not take the form of a lowering of standards, that there are problems linked to the application of the Interinstitutional Agreement governing the recasting procedure and that it is therefore necessary to clarify the applicable rules in order to avoid conflicts of competence and procedural obstacles.
This report also clearly affirms Parliament’s desire to fully participate in the simplification strategy and it puts the same emphasis on the need to protect Parliament’s prerogatives as on the question of the adaptation of its rules of procedure.
Simplification cannot, in fact, take place outside of all democratic control and, in particular, outside the control of Parliament.
Parliament must also give thought, within the context of simplification, to the improvement of its procedures and its internal legislative techniques.
This continuum is well represented by the various reports that we are discussing today.
The Doorn report has a special focus on the use of impact assessments.
Of course, we need full and independent information from all sides on all aspects, not just the effects on business.
No number of impact assessments or re-impact assessments should replace democracy.
It is perhaps the committee in this House that is most in touch with our citizens.
The job of the Petitions Committee is to help citizens highlight the problems with implementation and monitoring of EU law.
For the umpteenth time, the Petitions Committee has emphasised the need for the Commission’s infringement proceedings to be more robust and we welcome, therefore, the proposals made by Mrs Frassoni in this respect.
But we could at least ensure that our citizens understand what we are doing in their name.
As coordinator of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, I particularly would like to commend Mrs&#160;McCarthy on the excellent work she has done, as well as our committee, which held a hearing on this topic.
We should say, when the Commission sends us a proposal – and this again is a recommendation – that with each proposal there should be just a short checklist about the procedures that the Commission has already gone through and the ones that it will go through in future.
I also sometimes suspect that this debate on better lawmaking is intended to distract us from our real functions as legislators and to serve as a pretext for inaction on the part of those who legislate for the Community or for better regulation meaning deregulation.
I am grateful to the rapporteurs for having worked out some very definite measures, albeit in amidst all this fog, particularly to Mrs Frassoni for her report with its concrete proposals for improved monitoring of the process of transposing Community law, for speedier infringement proceedings and greater transparency for those citizens who bring complaints.
After all, it is not acceptable that members of the public should bring a complaint, or that the Commission should commence infringement proceedings, and then see the proceedings suddenly halted without the public being given any real information as to why this has happened.
Above all, I welcome the proposals that Mr Doorn has put together, especially those relating to impact assessment.
We do not agree with Mr Doorn, though, on the question of mandatory impact assessments for amendments proposed in this House and in the Council.
In a reply just the other day, the Commission admitted that little progress had been made. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to tell Mr&#160;Barroso that what was decided today on energy shows that where there is a will there is a way, and so it is our ‘will’ that you find a ‘way’ in a greater number of cases, particularly in the areas of environmental, consumer and health policies.
In addition, those items that everyone is talking about that have been considered crucial in an impact assessment, including administrative costs, too much red tape and excessive costs for businesses, whether real or presumed, are in themselves a political choice.
This creates the illusion that, particularly in the regulatory environment, more attention should be paid to subsidiarity in areas such as social protection, the environment and consumer protection.
Reality, however, shows us that it is those very same European rules on the hallowed internal market that make life difficult for the European citizens.
For example, it is those rules that require a small municipality in the north of the Netherlands to ask for permission from the European Commission before it can install a glass-fibre cable network for its own citizens, or that consider government support of the City of Amsterdam to the local zoo to be distortion of competition.
No wonder the people of the Netherlands, having lost all faith in a further extension of Brussels powers and in the proposed Constitution which approved and backed this process, proceeded, by an overwhelming majority, to consign that document to the waste paper basket.
Reality is that subsidiarity has been an empty concept for a long time.
One example I would give of that is the European services directive, which, even in its amended form, will seriously erode the autonomy of municipal authorities in the area of licences or the local provision of services.
In a nutshell, whilst a discussion on the quality and subsidiarity of European legislation is to be welcomed, it is totally naïve to assume that by scrapping a handful of rules or carrying out impact assessments, the fundamental problems of interference from Brussels can be solved.
One of the things that is most clearly and importantly needed is the codification and simplification of the existing body of law – the – not only to ensure that businesses can operate more freely or properly across the internal market, but also to guarantee that individuals recognise where their rights are protected; that there are clear and defined rules to ensure that big business cannot overrun the rights of workers; that consumers cannot be trodden under foot because of decisions taken by financial institutions or whatever else.
That is why for many years we in Parliament have been attempting to put in place this idea of impact assessment with regard to all legislation, to test it before it becomes law, to see its necessity and to understand fully what its impact will be when it is eventually transposed into law.
The state of the law governing, for example, the fisheries area is to be sought in more than 70 different regulations.
We shall also adopt the democratic principle from our own constitutions, namely that, in future, it will not be possible to adopt any EU law without its having been decided on here in the European Parliament.
Under these arrangements, EU laws would be able to authorise the issue of notifications, but any such instrument could be reconsidered on the basis of a straightforward majority in the Council and Parliament.
All committee procedures in which a minority combines with the Commission to legislate against the majority in the national parliaments and the European Parliament should also be abolished.
It is absurd that the Commission should have been able to approve genetically modified cornflakes when, their citizens having discovered what had really been decided behind closed doors, 14 out of 15 countries were opposed to such approval and country number 15 also came out in opposition.
If legislation in its entirety is opened up to the citizens, we shall also obtain better laws. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, the European Commission monitors application of Community law on a yearly basis.
A so-called reasoned opinion has been issued for almost one thousand of these, and over 400 have been referred to the Court of Justice.
This is because the complaints indicate that citizens of the Member States are playing an important role in the monitoring process and thus also in Union lawmaking.
They are part of the process of building a citizens’ Europe and in general they are an effective way of monitoring the application of Community law.
The European Parliament’s committees should monitor the implementation of Community law closely, particularly in situations where the relevant rapporteur is required to participate actively in monitoring the application of a particular legal provision in individual Member States and also, naturally, when it comes to calling for immediate action should any infringements be noted.
The efficiency of the process should be improved by abbreviating the internal procedure, as was rightly included in the draft European Parliament resolution.
This could be achieved by authorising Commissioners to address requests for dealing with infringements within their particular sphere of competence directly to Member States. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, your helping me to make a very practical contribution to better lawmaking by being privileged to meet with the Conference of Presidents and have very in-depth discussions with them about legal acts is very definitely relevant to this debate.
I would like to say something, very briefly, about one or two of the issues that have been touched on in this debate.
We are not far away from a solution, and I hope that we will arrive at finally sorting this out by the end of this period of six months.
That will help improve our lawmaking processes.
This is a matter for the Member States rather than for the Council as such – on behalf of which I am of course speaking – but the individual Member States are of course endeavouring, in their discussions with the Commission, to find better ways of ensuring that the law is applied.
Mrs&#160;Frassoni drew up a great report, but paragraph 18, ‘Notes that the SOLVIT network has proved its effectiveness in the internal market as a complementary non-judicial mechanism which has increased voluntary cooperation among Member States&#160;...’.
Mr&#160;Doorn, on better lawmaking, at paragraph 5, ‘is of the opinion that the Lamfalussy procedure is a useful mechanism; regards the convergence of supervisory practices as crucial; welcomes the work of the Level 3 committees in this respect and supports the call for an adequate toolbox;’ – great.
Then, the McCarthy report – which I think is the clearest one – states in paragraph 6, ‘requests that the Commission carry out both and impact assessments on legislation to assist in identifying whether key policy objectives have been met&#160;...’, and the Gargani report has exactly the same.
They have their place but, in the interest of the citizens and of consumers, I believe that they must not, under any circumstances, take the place of the law, which confers rights but also duties and therefore constitutes the most legitimate democratic tool.
As regards consultation prior to the legislative process, I call on the three institutions to organise, alongside the economic operators, the actual participation of the social partners and of civil society in all its diversity.
It is, in fact, the responsibility of the public authorities to support the organisation of these players - consumer associations, public service users, associations fighting against exclusion or community education associations – throughout Europe.
Finally, I should like to comment on the simplification rolling programme that is supposed to facilitate the Lisbon Strategy.
I am surprised that it includes as its main principle the recasting of the regulation on organic farming, when even the producers in this sector are not asking for that, and that proposals as important as those on the status of the mutual benefit associations and of the European Association have, at the same time, been withdrawn from the legislative programme. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I quite agree here with those who think that a slimming diet would be good for the Europe of regulation, a Europe that is fussy about principles and, sadly, more lax about the monitoring of the transposition and proper application of our legislation.
This much is clear: ten years after the launch of the SLIM programme, and despite the signing, two years ago, of the ‘Better lawmaking’ interinstitutional agreement, there is still a long way to go.
I am therefore delighted that the Commission is now proposing to us this balanced diet: three conditions to ensure that this agenda functions, strengthens the Union and brings it closer to Europeans.
It has been said that Europe should make laws only when it can do better than other levels of authority.
As we heard yesterday, a lack of Council transparency remains the elephant in the room; it remains the root cause of so much discontent with EU lawmaking in general.
More substantively, turning to subsidiarity and especially paragraphs 25-29 of Mr Doorn’s report, I give my own country, Scotland, as an example of the missed opportunity that subsidiarity currently represents.
I would associate myself with all of Mr Doorn’s recommendations on impact assessments, although I echo Mrs Wallis’ comments on political engagement and stress that such engagement must be as local as possible.
Then perhaps we will see subsidiarity starting to work for the betterment of EU legislation in the future. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I do not think that this debate can be reduced to a debate on the quality of legislation.
The fact is that the number of EU laws has risen dramatically in recent years, and the EU is now legislating in a host of new areas.
At the same time, it is extremely unusual for the EU to give its right of decision-making back to Member States or to repeal legislation.
Where quality is concerned, there is a lot that can now already be done, and the reports contain proposals for doing these things.
This means that there is a need to be rather careful in this area.
We should therefore thank the Dutch and French voters now as well. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, a legislator’s skill is demonstrated not only by the ability to make sound laws, but also by the ability to refrain from regulating where no regulation is needed.
The directive on services is a case in point.
It amounts to feel-good therapy for the Member States, the Union as a whole and also for this House.
We are, however, salving our consciences at the expense of the citizens, the entrepreneurs and the quality of our laws. &#160;&#160; Madam President, further to the reports on better lawmaking that are the subject of today’s discussion, I should like to make a few observations about the role of impact assessments.
Like him, I call for a truly independent committee, one that is not made up of representatives of the three institutions.
I would also like to add that legislation is always a learning process, but the explicit description of it as such in Recital J of the Doorn report is, in my view, far too negative.
We are bound to get it wrong the odd time, but to see this as an objective from the outset strikes me as taking things too far. &#160;&#160; Madam President, you are an eminent specialist on the ancient Japan of the Tokugawa era, during which people were deliberately kept in ignorance of laws deemed to be state secrets, knowledge of which was restricted to a small number of great lords, because it was thought that in this way people would retain far greater respect for standards about which they knew nothing.
Naturally, the rapporteur, as is perfectly legitimate, wants his name to go down in history.
In short, we need to make a great effort towards simplification.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, Commissioner&#160;Verheugen, I should like to start by taking this opportunity to thank all four rapporteurs for their constructive work on this issue, which is not only preoccupying pub regulars, but increasingly politicians, too.
I believe that we should always bear in mind with regard to better lawmaking that the aim of all these reports on the subject is not, of course, to improve the familiarity of the individual citizen with the legal texts, but to provide Member States with a simple text to help with transposition.
Therefore, we need to keep our objective clearly in mind when faced with these challenges.
Naturally, in this particular context – and I do not mean to be ironic in any way when I say that I have to expressly agree with the previous speaker for once on this particular point – we complain that our legislative process is not at all transparent in the field of comitology.
Therefore, the four reports we are discussing today also provide an excellent starting point for arriving at a common position between Parliament and the Commission, and possibly even the Council, on this issue. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, better lawmaking in the European Union calls for sound provisions formulated more transparently, and also for swifter and more effective implementation and application of such provisions.
If Union legislation is not deemed to be binding on all, and its transposition and implementation depend entirely on a government’s good will, the outcome could be the objective renationalisation of Community policy, as Mrs&#160;Frassoni rightly highlights in her report.
Lack of uniformity of transposition may also lead to incorrect implementation of Union legislation should different provisions be implemented in different countries, thus undermining the Union’s credibility.
If we are not capable of bringing pressure to bear upon the governments of Member States to transpose Union legislation correctly, we cannot expect people to believe that Union institutions such as the Commission, the Council or the European Parliament will effectively defend citizens’ rights derived from Union law. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the European Parliament must be the standard bearer for better legislation.
I therefore call on Parliament's leadership to ensure that our legislative work is better coordinated so that we do not again end up in a situation in which the committees propose amendments that contradict each other.
At the same time, we must prioritise legal certainty and predictability for our citizens and not let the authorities or the European Court of Justice have too much discretion.
The President of the European Council - the Austrian Chancellor – has attacked the European Court of Justice for arrogating too much power to itself.
This is an area in which we must all do better at second reading. &#160;&#160; – In my meetings with internal market stakeholders I have often faced criticism over current European legislation.
I therefore welcome the recommendations of the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;McCarthy, for the Commission to continue consolidating, simplifying and codifying Community legislation in order to make it easier to understand.
It goes without saying that the rule should apply that improvements in legislation must not weaken environmental, social or consumer standards.
I myself, having been elected to many terms in office, would not be prepared to renounce my legislative responsibilities in favour of sub-contracting and in favour of technocratic interests. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I realise that the new approach to European regulation requires changes in thinking, and possibly even changes to agreements.
If we wish, however, to retain the public’s faith in the single market, we must stem the outflow of investment and the loss of jobs.
This means that we must not only reduce and simplify legislation, but we must also, in my opinion, reconsider the original aims of both European and national regulation.
It is also up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to demand that every single measure, whether aimed at, for example, protecting health or the environment, is subjected to an impact assessment.
Better regulation also means that, in the context of costs, we will investigate seriously whether the new measures might really improve the health or social conditions of our citizens, or whether this is merely an unfounded assumption.
Against that, I have no clear ideas on how to protect consumers against the harmful or counterfeit products from third countries that are displacing quality European products.
The political aim of today’s regulation is to safeguard both fair competition and the European consumer – not only inside but also outside Europe – and also to motivate the creativity of our citizens while ridding them of ineffective regulation. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, better Community lawmaking means assessing and defining the endeavour with regard to its technical side.
Nonetheless, the wager for the proper application of Community legislation is the shaping of political and, above all, social will.
The proper application of Community legislation is a procedure which would allow Europe in the medium term to reduce its inertia and become more competitive in the international globalised environment, for the benefit of citizens, consumers and companies.
Social dialogue is therefore needed with the agencies involved, which will thus be in a position to act as joint legislators.
As regards major political proposals in particular, this is the only way for us to win the confidence of the citizens.
A good law is not a labyrinthine law with strict procedures, it is a law which is convenient for citizens and, at the same time, makes them jointly responsible for its application. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that this debate has made it clear that the problem at the heart of our discussion here is regulatory impact assessments.
The Commission makes decisions on proposals on its own responsibility, as, of course, do Parliament and the Council.
If we subsequently discover that the effect is undesirable, we have the problem that, thanks to the EU’s complex procedures, we cannot just quickly amend these laws, as national parliaments do, but need a complex procedure lasting many years to revise directives and amend regulations.
Even though, ultimately, the political decision remains ours to take, we still need this support.
That is quite crucial when the Commission, the Council and Parliament have to take decisions on behalf of 470&#160;million people in such a large economic area.
That is contrary to the spirit of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 2003.
We should like the Commission to do this on its own initiative, so that we have sound bases for decision. &#160;&#160; . – Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to try once more to explain what this is all about, and what it is not about.
It is really the simplest thing in the world, and I am astonished time and again at the kind of motives being attributed to such a clear, unambiguous concept.
Whether or not we believe that we have too many European laws or that these may not always be good enough is irrelevant.
The ‘better lawmaking’ exercise proposed by the Commission uses all the instruments that have been mentioned here – various ways of simplifying and modernising legislation without changing its content.
The screening of the whole corpus is no simple matter, and I should be very much in favour of our agreeing on common procedures for this, too, and not just with regard to codification, where this has already been done.
The issue of impact assessments plays a quite fundamental role in this connection.
I agree with all of you here who have said that it is essential in a democracy that the legislature knows the consequences its action will have for those affected.
If the Commission were to say that a piece of legislation would incur costs to the economy of EUR&#160;X&#160;billion but that, on the other hand, this legislation had to be presented in order to meet the public’s need for health protection, the decision would not be a difficult one.
The Commission would then say that the protection of public health takes precedence, even if it costs money.
It is a case of knowing exactly what we are doing.
I wholeheartedly agree with those of you here who have said that the final decision on the validity of an impact assessment cannot lie with those who performed it, and that work on an impact assessment cannot be carried out exclusively by those making the law associated with it.
Indeed, in his introductory statement, the President said that he is considering establishing an independent authority under his own responsibility for screening impact assessments.
The same goes for the comitology procedure, in which, indeed, we largely endorse Parliament’s requests, and also for all the other ideas that have been expressed here.
It is intended to help reinforce public confidence in the system of European integration as a whole, and to help provide our economy with a stable, reliable framework, so as to resolve the great social issue of our time, namely that of the future of our jobs. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 16&#160;May. &#160;&#160; The rapporteur did an excellent job in identifying the obstacles in Community and Member State laws that create difficulties in the operation of the internal market.
The solution is the review of the existing laws and a better, more cautious preparation of new laws.
Parliament has a role and responsibility in the review of existing laws in its capacity of legislator.
I respectfully ask the Commission to cooperate closely with Parliament, in the spirit of the Interinstitutional Agreement on better law-making.
Finally, I would like to call the attention of all three institutions to the fact that society will only trust and respect European law if we ensure full publicity and social control. &#160;&#160; European legislation is too complex and sometimes superfluous: an intelligent overhaul must make it possible for us to fight against this unhealthy and damaging lack of clarity.
In this simplification project, as for any new measure adopted, the principles of proportionality and of subsidiarity must be respected: the European Union where it is necessary, when it is more effective than the Member States acting independently, as much as is needed, but no more than is needed.
The application of these apparently technical principles involves making a judgment as to their social, cultural or other appropriateness, even though there is no effective mechanism with which to monitor their application.
On the other hand, we need to improve the monitoring of the transposition of Community law because lack of legal certainty undermines the competitiveness of our businesses.
The introduction of national correspondents is a positive measure if the controls encompass a quantitative and a qualitative analysis and include an impact analysis regarding the social, economic and ecological environment.
In order to achieve this aim, the European Parliament must strengthen its power in this area. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0017/2006).
I hope that you will convey that message.
There are different categories of risk and the authorities should draw up their procedures on the basis of those risk assessments.
In the EU we have taken it upon ourselves, in a directive, to implement the recommendations, which has been done in the third money laundering directive.
If a Member State violates internal market rules, the Commission can launch an infringement procedure pursuant to Article&#160;226 of the EC Treaty.
This procedure may require a certain time, as the Commission has, at two separate stages, to grant the Member State the opportunity to express its view before introducing an action before the Court of Justice, which then has to take the final decision on the alleged infringement.
Where justified by the circumstances of the case, the Commission can act more speedily by giving very short deadlines to Member States in the pre-litigation phase and asking the court to grant interim measures.
Even in that case, the Commission is obliged to take into account the observations of the Member States, including late responses, as it is settled case-law that the proper conduct of their pre-litigation procedure constitutes an essential guarantee required by the EC Treaty, not only in order to protect the rights of the Member State concerned but also to ensure that any contentious procedure would have a clearly defined dispute as its subject-matter.
Moreover, in cases where a Member State intervenes with regard to concentrations with a Community dimension, the Commission has special powers to adopt a decision under Article 21 of Regulation (EC) No&#160;139/2004, known as the Merger Regulation.
Member States can adopt measures which could prohibit or prejudice or such operations only if, first, the measures in question protect the interests other than those taken into account by the Merger Regulation and, second, those measures are necessary and proportionate for the protection of interests compatible with EC law.
Public security, plurality of media and prudential rules are considered to be interests compatible with EC law.
Measures adopted in pursuit of those interests must in any event be necessary and proportionate, and the Commission may seek information from the national authorities about the intended measures in order to verify this.
The other interests must be communicated to the Commission before the adoption of those measures.
The Commission must then decide, within 25 working days, whether the national measures are justified for the protection of an interest compatible with EC law.
The Commission considers that the abovementioned provisions can allow it, in a timely manner, to act against any unlawful protectionist measures adopted by Member States.
Even in Member States these types of actions take some time.
The aim of Directive 2000/78/EC, as already mentioned, is in fact to prevent discrimination in the area of employment, especially age discrimination.
The Directive also sets out several exceptions to the general rule.
Allow me to quote directly from the Directive. ‘Nevertheless, differences in treatment in connection with age may be justified under certain circumstances and therefore require specific provisions which may vary in accordance with the situation in Member States.
Another quotation: ‘Putting in place special conditions regarding access to employment and vocational training, and occupation, including dismissal and remuneration conditions, for young people, older workers and persons with caring responsibilities, in order to promote their vocational integration or ensure their protection’.
The Directive acknowledges different forms of handling, where there are legitimate grounds, and different measures, where such measures are of a character that is in proportion with the purpose for which they are intended.
Recently, a judgment was delivered by the Court of Justice – Mangold judgment of 22 November 2005 – concerning another piece of legislation, the German ‘Hartz&#160;4’ law, which relates to provisions for older workers.
This is therefore clearly an act of discrimination towards them, which denies them the benefit of a number of elements of employment law.
This possibility is granted on an exceptional basis, under certain conditions and only during a limited period.
While several countries in the Indian Ocean whose fishing sectors were affected by the tsunami disaster enquired about the possibility of a transfer of vessels, only Sri Lanka submitted a formal request for vessels.
The Commission informed Member States of the request and reminded them on several occasions of the obligation to report on the transfer of vessels.
Despite the unanimous adoption of the regulation by the Council, all 20&#160;Member States which are engaged in maritime fisheries have now informed the Commission that they have not identified any possibility of transfers of vessels in response to the Sri Lankan request.
I remember the discussion here in Parliament that we should not allow a situation where vessels would be transferred to third countries stricken by the tsunami without imposing any conditions because that could, in actual fact, increase the fishing effort and therefore intensify the problems that existed in certain fisheries in those third-country waters, but that the vessels should be suitable and appropriate to the fisheries that were traditionally carried out in those countries.
Having said that, I must underline the fact that the responses we have received from the Member States on why it was not possible to identify vessels for transfer to Sri Lanka were either that there were no appropriate vessels available among those to be decommissioned in certain Member States, or that decommissioning was not foreseen in certain other Member States, or that the incentives provided for the transfer of vessels were not sufficiently attractive.
I must also underline the fact that this was a Commission initiative aimed at trying to help the countries affected by the tsunami, with regard to the fisheries sector specifically, if there was scope to do so.
The end result today is that there is a significantly larger fleet in the tsunami-affected areas, which creates much more pressure on the fishing effort than before and creates further problems.
The ban, which took effect on 1&#160;February 2006, was introduced in the TAC and Quota Regulation that was adopted at the Council in December 2005.
The DEEPNET Report was carried out by reputable scientific organisations in Ireland, the United Kingdom and Norway, and so was taken seriously by the Commission.
The prohibition was originally envisaged as an emergency measure in September but deferred until the December Council to give time for consultations.
Unfortunately, no concrete suggestions for alternative measures were presented in time for inclusion in the proposal discussed at the Council in December.
The Commission has already had some feedback on possible approaches, especially from the North-Western Waters Regional Advisory Council, which suggests an earlier reopening of the hake fishery and a limited number of vessels participating in the monkfish and deep-sea fisheries with observer coverage.
The Commission services will meet with the North-Western Waters Regional Advisory Council and scientists on Friday, 7&#160;April 2006, where we will discuss those possibilities.
Depending on the outcome of that meeting, a proposal to allow a limited fishery under an observer programme could be made in May 2006.
The data collected by such a programme could then be made available to the STECF, which will address the issue in late June or early July.
That is another reason for bringing in effective legislation applicable in all areas as soon as practicable.
Yes, there are two aspects to it: one concerns the action that can be taken in the short term to try to soften the impact of the temporary imposition of the ban on deep sea gillnets.
There is no formal policy dialogue between the Commission and the Polisario Front.
In this case, as in others, the Commission is taking care to avoid a situation where the conclusion of new agreements in the field of fisheries could become a factor in international disputes or conflicts.
The content of the initial text, as in the case of the previous fisheries agreement, does not in any way prejudice the issue related to the international status of Western Sahara.
The negotiations concluded with an agreement which entails that any fisheries carried out in waters within the jurisdiction of the Kingdom of Morocco should benefit the communities directly adjacent to where the fisheries are carried out.
I will be discussing with the Austrian Presidency the possibility of having the Council decide on this agreement in the meeting of the Council of Ministers later on in May, so that if it works in that way, the agreement can come into effect from the beginning of June.
It will be 85%, both for regions under the convergence objective and for those outermost regions which are part of the regional competitiveness and employment objective.
The co-financing rate under this additional allocation will be at the level of 50%; this additional allocation amounts to EUR&#160;35 per year per capita in each of the seven outermost regions.
As you know in the case of Portugal, Madeira and the Azores will also be eligible for the Cohesion Fund, as also for the temporary application of the n+3 rule for the period 2007-2010.
In the case of Spain and the Canary Islands, that means they will also be eligible for the Cohesion Fund and for an additional allocation that was awarded to Spain in the form of a technological fund.
As you may know, the outermost regions can also benefit from specific measures, which aim at supporting traditional sectors of these regions.
There will be specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions of the Union, as well as specific treatment under the rural development policy, in particular concerning the intervention rates of the new European agricultural fund for rural development.
I would like simply to ask you a very specific question: whether, within the new context of the crisis taking place in regions close to the European Union, North Africa in particular, it is possible for the European Union, through the outermost regions and the new fund allocated to the neighbourhood policies, to help to resolve the problem, which affects the whole of the Union, of mass access to the European Union for immigration.
As you know the regions in Europe can also use part of the funds allocated to them to invest in those regions that are not in EU Member States, but which are part of neighbouring countries, so this possibility of using part of the allocation on neighbouring territory is open to the outermost regions.
Additionally, within the European neighbourhood and partnership instrument, which is still currently under preparation with regard to its legal form by the Commission, there will be the possibility of working together with neighbouring countries and regions on issues related to those that you are addressing to create jobs and employment opportunities on the other side of the border.
In the Canaries, in particular, they will be able to allocate part of the money in the new neighbourhood and partnership instrument and thus will be able to have external cooperation, for example, with the border areas of Morocco.
So that is what this policy, through the financial instruments, can do.
Within the Commission we had a discussion a week or so ago on the situation in some of the outermost regions in the context of migration and the difficult situations experienced.
It is very difficult to see what balance is in this case, because the issues and problems faced by those regions are very different.
This is a challenge not only for us at European level but also for the governments involved.
Therefore, it is very difficult to measure what is balanced and what is not.
What I presented – all those additional measures which were offered to the regions – is something that came during the Council and was not part of a global balanced proposal of the Commission.
However, I do not see a need to compare the EUR&#160;540 million that Finland and Sweden received for those regions to the money allocated to the outermost regions.
The situations are very different: the money has a different value.
The Commission will certainly work with both types of problems – in the outermost regions and the sparsely populated regions – to get the best we can from the funds which will be available. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, the Commission indeed presented a very ambitious financial framework.
It so happens that the two institutions – the Council and Parliament – have gone quite far in financial terms; in terms of the level of the budget that is on the table.
The Commission’s efforts should go, in my view, towards helping them to find a compromise.
The level of budget is extremely important.
The request submitted relates to 12 operational programmes in Greece and also implies the intervention of three funds: the ERDF, the ESF and the agricultural fund.
The second part of your question concerns the eligibility period for the commitments and payments.
As you know, for the 2000-2006 programming period, the eligibility period ends on 31&#160;December 2008.
We will close the expenditure for all the Member States under the current financial perspective on 31&#160;December 2008, with the exception of programmes and measures which are covered by state aid.
According to the rules, this eligibility date is 30&#160;April 2009.
I also want to inform you that, according to all our legal analyses and the information we have in the Commission, there could be no exceptions to these conditions – I mean the end of 2008 or April 2009 – as regards the final possible date of eligibility.
So the final date is the end of 2008 or April 2009, and that is the situation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, allow me to ask you something else.
With this kind of question it is too risky to embark on an effort to respond without good checking and preparation, so I can make a commitment that we will try as early as possible in the next few days to respond and come back to you with an assessment of the current situation as regards the payments and commitments for Greece. &#160;&#160; Questions 48 to 59 will be answered in writing. &#160;&#160; As they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: What is the Commissioner's view of the current state of preparations and the schedule for the introduction of the euro in the ten EU Member States which acceded to the EU on 1 May 2004?
According to opinions expressed in the press and in official statements, assessment of new EU Member States’ readiness to join the euro zone will take account not only of the Maastricht criteria but also of each country’s general economic level of development.
At least every two years, or at the request of a Member State, the Commission and the European Central Bank must report to the Council on the progress made by the Member States in terms of compliance with their obligation to become full members of the Economic and Monetary Union.
In February 2006, the Commission, in agreement with the European Central Bank, announced that the next convergence report, on all of the States that are not members of the eurozone, except the two with an opt-out clause, the United Kingdom and Denmark, will be published in October 2006, that is, two years after the last assessment.
Nevertheless, in accordance with Article 122 of the Treaty, two Member States, Slovenia and Lithuania, have asked the Commission and the European Central Bank for an individual report on the progress they have made in terms of convergence; the Commission and also the European Central Bank intend to adopt this report on these two Member States on 16 May 2006.
In the event that the assessment of compliance with the economic and legal convergence criteria is positive, the Commission would present the corresponding proposal and, following consultation of this Parliament, in the middle of June the European Council could analyse and, if appropriate, adopt, a decision, and definitive proposed derogation could therefore be discussed by the Ecofin Council on 11 July.
Independently of this process, we in the Commission of course maintain regular contacts with all of the States intending to enter the eurozone, we monitor them very closely and we cooperate with them in relation to the practical preparations for this important decision.
In response to Mr Paleckis’s question, I must say to him that of course the Commission will apply the principle of equal treatment when assessing the progress of the ten new Member States in terms of economic and legal convergence.
As I have just said, the countries will be assessed according to the procedure and the criteria laid down in the Treaty, in particular Article 122, and the Commission obviously has no intention of changing this procedure or introducing additional criteria.
With regard to the inflation criterion, as you are aware, the Treaty states that the Member State in question is obliged to maintain sustainable price trends and an average inflation rate which does not exceed that of the three Member States with the best price stability results by any more than 1.5%.
I should like to query whether I have understood correctly, therefore, that the last two of these ten Member States, namely the Czech Republic and Hungary, are due to join in 2010?
The Maastricht criteria are being strictly applied to those countries which are applying for entry into the eurozone.
The sufficient condition is that the assessments of both the Commission and the European Central Bank, of compliance with the criteria laid down in the Treaty, indicate that the Member States that wish to enter the eurozone have indeed complied with those criteria.
Both sides must demonstrate will: the Member States and ultimately the Council, on the proposal of the Commission, once the Commission and the European Central Bank have judged that the criteria have been complied with.
In the case of Poland, which is the only one of the Member States that has not yet set a target date for entering the eurozone — Sweden is also in this position following the ‘no’ vote in the 2003 referendum — the Commission would point out that it is the obligation of the Member States themselves — except in the case of those with an exception clause, which are just the United Kingdom and Denmark — to propose their entry into the eurozone and it is our obligation and responsibility to assess whether or not they conform to the requirements.
I cannot tell Mr Paleckis in advance what the content of the report that the Commission will adopt on 16 May will be and it would be even more difficult for me to anticipate the content of the European Central Bank’s report, for obvious reasons.
What I can say once again to the honourable Member — and I have said this on many occasions — is that the Commission is going to assess whether or not the criteria have been met as defined in the Treaty.
I will be able to inform you and all of the honourable Members of the conclusions of this analysis on 16 May. &#160;&#160; New Member States must comply with the convergence criteria in order to introduce the euro.
In order to ensure compliance with the convergence criteria, the Commission and Council are formulating various proposals for these Member States.
If you wish, I shall come to Parliament on the afternoon of 16 May to explain the content of the report to you, but I cannot say anything before then. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the Commissioner has already mentioned one of the problems.
We are discussing how seriously new Member States are taking their commitments, but what we are not really discussing is how, specifically, a Member State that has been meeting the criteria for some time but obviously does not wish to join the eurozone, namely Sweden, sees its future.
The Commissioner named a new Member State that has not yet announced a date.
As I said before, we must combine fulfilling our responsibilities with political prudence, but what I will say — and I have said this publicly on other occasions — is that compliance with an obligation which falls to the 25 countries of the European Union as Member States cannot not be put to a referendum.
Only two countries did not exceed the index.
The others exceeded it for between 10 months and almost six years from the end of 1998 to the end of 2005.
We cannot therefore ignore them or amend them.
It is true that an academic discussion is under way on a correct definition of the criteria, but the procedure for changing the Treaties will consist of an Intergovernmental Conference and a process of ratification when the time seems right and when there is a sufficient majority to do so.
It is true that there is asymmetry, because compliance with the criteria is required in order to enter the eurozone, but then, once a country is a member, it can fail to comply with the criteria; once a country is a member of the eurozone, it can have more inflation, more debt or more deficit.
In the case of deficit and debt, there are rules relating to budgetary discipline – Article 104 of the Treaty – and the Stability and Growth Pact but, in the case of inflation, those rules do not exist, but there are some rules that are probably tougher than legal rules in application of the Treaty: the rules of the market.
In all recent cases that have been dealt with, when the Commission and the Council have applied the rules of the excessive deficit procedure, in accordance with the letter and the sprit of the revised Pact, there has been full consensus and there have not been the political discrepancies and difficulties that arose last time.
Some countries have even decided to set more ambitious objectives, which reflect a national strategy aimed at guaranteeing greater sustainability of public finances.
To name certain cases, I would remind you that, since the new Pact was approved last year, the excessive deficit procedure has been applied to Italy, Portugal, Hungary, the United Kingdom and Germany, with unanimity in the Council and without the problems of political acceptance which arose during the previous stage.
On the last point that you made with regard to the rules concerning excessive public deficits and the fact that proposals have been made to Italy, Portugal, Hungary and the United Kingdom, what about France and Germany?
In particular, what about the undermining of confidence in the Stability Pact which that creates on the wider market?
In accordance with its obligations to apply the Council’s recommendations within the framework of the excessive deficit procedure, the French authorities were obliged to bring their public deficit to below 3% in 2005.
Last week, the French authorities notified the Commission that the public deficit at the end of 2005 was below 3%.
Over the next three weeks, by 24 April, Eurostat must analyse the figure notified by the French authorities, and will explain whether or not those figures, a deficit of 2.87%, are correct.
Until then I will not be able to predict what our economic forecast will be for this year, but, without anticipating the final assessments, I believe that the budgetary situation in France is improving with regard to our forecasts a year ago, amongst other things because the French Government, and in particular the Finance Minister, Thierry Breton – whom I thank, as I did publicly the other day in Brussels – are politically committed to complying with the Stability and Growth Pact.
Europe, the European Union and the largest economies of the eurozone must pursue fiscal consolidation until public accounts, in the medium term, are in a situation of balance in structural terms so that we can deal with the significant challenges facing us for the future, the first of which is the consequences of the ageing of the population.
Our currency is remaining perfectly stable in the currency markets, in fact it is over-valued according to certain economic sectors.
The euro is used in the financial markets, in the debt markets and in the capital and money markets at world level to a degree that is disproportionate to the relative weight of the eurozone’s economy within the world economy.
All of these functions are being carried out by the Eurogroup, and this is largely due to President Juncker’s effective and intelligent direction of the Eurogroup’s work. &#160;&#160; I would like to ask the Commissioner what level of discussions he has had with Member States of the eurozone in relation to their performance and their potential performance.
In the case of Ireland, for example, asset inflation, the price index for houses, went up 1.5% in February.
The President of the European Central Bank participates in the meetings of the Eurogroup each month.
On the issue of housing, in particular, in one of the items at the last meeting of the Eurogroup in Brussels in March, we discussed the situation of the housing markets, which is not the same in all of the countries of the eurozone.
Certain countries in the eurozone have the problem of property inflation, while other countries have the opposite situation, in some cases with total stability and, in others, a decrease over several years in the price of houses and other real estate property.
Since then statements have been given by the Committee on Budgets, on which Neena Gill has done such good work, and the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on which Giusto Catania has also done good work.
I would like to thank them all for their excellent, well-informed statements.
I might say that this year we have been very busy, and I also want to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and the Committee’s determined female – and male – members, who have assisted me in this, and all the others who have been involved.
The first is ‘Active citizens for Europe’, which includes town-twinning and which has now received a lot of positive publicity and feedback through the existing programme.
Citizens’ projects also come under Action 1.
The purpose of this programme was specifically to reach those Europeans who, for one reason or another, have not yet managed to take part in the European agenda.
Both the recent events in connection with the European Parliament elections and the results of referendums show that far too few people are interested in matters that affect all of us.
As we know, it is important to strengthen European identity and it is important to increase activity in which all nations of Europe are involved, thereby creating opportunities for everyone to participate.
In a word, this programme has worked on the assumption that what we needed was not an elitist programme, but a programme that would be appropriate for all Europeans.
Some might say that it is a bit of a patchwork quilt or that many issues of greatly varying importance have been put in the same programme, but it is tailor-made precisely in order to overlap successfully with some existing programmes and really give all Europeans the opportunity to get involved in Europe.
I also hope that the additional remarks which have been made by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance with regard to these new organisations, , the Berlin-based and the European Council on Refugees and Exiles, can be adopted as part of this programme.
Unfortunately, time is so short and I have gone over mine, so I cannot speak here any longer, but I will say thank you for all the support.
Tomorrow you will vote on the report, which reflects a lot of work since that time, and it is an important step towards the adoption of the new generation of programmes.
I should like to thank all the listed committees, in particular the Committee on Culture and Education and its rapporteur Mr Takkula for his efforts, combining determination and modernisation.
The report reflects this balance and shows that the committee shares the concerns of the Commission about the necessity to promote the active participation of citizens in the construction of a common Europe.
The proposal is based on the conviction that the strengthening of active citizenship at European level is closely linked to the development of a sense of belonging to the European Union and of a European identity, which is complementary to other identities: national, regional and local.
The parliamentary committee adopted several amendments that enrich our proposal with references to European values.
I note with pleasure that the report followed the Commission's proposal on the various actions of this programme, ensuring continuity of activities that proved to be successful and the introduction of innovative projects and methods for citizens' participation.
I appreciate that the report proposes the integration of a new, fourth action providing support for memorials to victims of Nazi and Stalinist regimes, as agreed by the European Parliament, Council and Commission in November.
The Commission has proposed a limited list of six designated bodies because of their uniqueness in the European arena.
This pan-European network of local organisations is aimed at engaging citizens in the construction of Europe.
This was mentioned in the proposal as an example of the field of interest of this programme.
Let me emphasise the importance of continuing our constructive cooperation, despite the current uncertainties about the financial questions connected to this programme.
But whether we feel it or not, we are European citizens and we share the rights and privileges citizenship brings.
This programme should make people aware and proud of their EU citizenship.
However, it is important to remember that we already have invested in similar programmes aimed at engaging with citizens.
I can understand all the Members wanting to address their preferred issues within the scope of this programme, but the funding for it, I believe, is far from adequate and we need to look very closely at some of the amendments that have been put forward.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for paying special attention to organised civil society at local level, including the disabled.
Finally, I wish this programme every success and hope that the monitoring and evaluation issues that the Committee on Budgets has put forward are taken up. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of citizenship is central to the revival of the European Union’s political project.
Twentieth-century European history cannot be commemorated, however, without remembering the victims of its Fascist regimes: in Italy, Fascists deprived men and women of their freedom for two decades, and there are many connections between the Italian regime and the Nazis.
Spain, Portugal and Greece only recently won back democracy and freedom.
Excluding the victims of such authoritarian regimes from the programme would be both tragic and a threat to the promotion of citizenship and a common European identity.
This identity, which after all is simply one more way of life, is boosted by the Citizens for Europe programme under discussion today.
The programme paves the way for a political model for cooperation between the general public and the EU institutions.
This will help turn the citizens into participants in the European political process.
Europe now has the task of becoming political and of moving from being a market to being a public area of debate.
The citizenship policy means that the EU institutions must also become more political.
The issue of European citizenship very much revolves around the way in which the institutions promote people’s interest in European policy.
There is also a clear need for a political focal point around which there could be a European political sphere.
The programme ‘Citizens for Europe’ is intended to promote active European citizenship and to reduce dissatisfaction and alienation.
This programme is one of the tools that could help the EU to achieve these objectives, by means of town-twinning activities, citizens’ projects, building up European networks in the civil-society sector, and adult-education centres.
The proposed total budget is to be EUR&#160;235&#160;million within the framework of the Financial Perspective for 2007–2013.
That is why I am pleased to see that Mr Takkula’s report has turned the Citizens for Europe programme into the Europe for the citizens programme.
I am less impressed with the way in which the Council of the European Union is full of the importance of involving the citizen in the European Union, but subsequently fobs us off with an excuse when it comes to funding the Europe for the citizens programme.
What is worse, it has made the discussion on the Takkula report particularly difficult, because when we talk about involving citizens in the European Union, we actually mean all citizens.
This also, for example, includes those European citizens who have become the victim of dictatorial regimes or internal strife in Europe, or new citizens, immigrants and citizens from third countries who have lived in Europe for a long time, as well as citizens of all ages.
As it happens, we can only fund a very limited number of programmes.
That is why I hope that everyone will back the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, in which we make an appeal to remember the victims of all European dictatorships.
The final decision on the financial perspectives will be taken before the report returns to this House for second reading.
I would make an urgent appeal to the parties involved to make more funds available for culture, in general, and the Europe for the citizens programme, in particular.
We therefore need money on the table, because the programme offers many opportunities, including town twinning opportunities, support for think tanks and NGOs, as well as the promotion of contacts between European citizens, for example in sports clubs.
If Europe wants to be there for its citizens, it should not leave them in the lurch now. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I am particularly obliged to the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Takkula, for his commitment, which goes to the very heart of the EU.
This is the only way to successfully generate interest – maybe even enthusiasm – on the part of even apolitical European citizens in their – our – Europe.
It is important to be able to hold broad debates at the coalface on Europe’s understanding of itself in political and cultural terms, on its social responsibility and its future, and also on the role it wants to play in the world.
Indeed, it is unfortunately the case that Europe is the continent whose totalitarianism, whose National Socialism and whose Stalinism has brought great suffering, murder and crime upon not only Europe but also other parts of the world.
Therefore, I, too, am in favour of the rapporteur’s motion. &#160;&#160; . – Let us begin with the name of the programme: ‘Citizens for Europe’ or ‘Europe for citizens’?
There will not be new citizens for Europe while the Europe of the institutions continues, with its policies, to exacerbate the social fissures and the identity problems.
No programme for citizenship can resolve this divorce.
I have nothing against major events, but I am totally opposed to lying.
The greatest virtue of this programme is that it can be carried out by the associative networks, which, on the ground, foster citizenship.
Any deviation from this option would distort the very idea of citizenship.
Consequently, the idea of earmarking a substantial sum of money for support for six, now eight, institutions, without any kind of contest, is similarly unsustainable.
In this particular case, eleventh-hour agreements were reached in order to accommodate two more organisations.
I am not judging their actual merits, but I am criticising the complete lack of merit in this method of awarding grants.
With the entry of the new countries from the East, it is perfectly understandable that the idea of associating the memory of the victims of Stalinism with the victims of the holocaust has emerged.
What is missing is something to honour the memory of the victims of fascism in southern Europe.
Our view of citizenship must be that of respect for the pain of the victims, their families and their descendents.
With those memories, all of those memories, memory itself can be a component in citizenship.
We need to promote measures to remember the mass deportations and the victims of both Nazism and Stalinism – I repeat, and Stalinism.
GM citizenship may be for some; it is not for me. &#160;&#160; Mr President, an essential element of effective and engaged citizenship is an understanding of a society’s shared and common heritage.
The NKVD, the Soviet Union’s People’s Commissariat of Internal Affairs, under Order No 001223, entitled ‘On the operative accounting of anti-Soviet and socially alien elements’, issued on 11 October 1939, was the prelude to the mass deportations ordered by Merkulov, the USSR’s People’s Commissar for State Security, and put into effect by his deputy, Serov.
On the night of 13 and 14 June 1941, 34&#160;260 people were deported from Lithuania, 15&#160;081 from Latvia and 10&#160;205 from Estonia.
It is significant that the EU will now support the commemoration of the victims of both those dictatorships.
It was the Yalta Agreement that was meant: just a small difference. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the low turnout of European citizens at European elections and the rejection by two countries of the Constitutional Treaty are perhaps the tip of the iceberg of what is sometimes a difficult relationship between European citizens and the European Union.
However, European history also integrates two difficult periods during the 20th century which also form part of our common memory and history.
We cannot and must not forget the tragic moments which our continent experienced 60 years ago in the concentration and extermination camps at the hands of Nazism, nor of course can we or must we forget the crimes committed by Stalinism.
We cannot honour the memory of the victims of Nazism and Stalinism and, at the same time, forget the fascism and dictatorships of southern Europe.
The common factor which links the states of southern Europe is that the stabilisation of democracy in these countries was achieved to a great extent thanks to their accession to the European Community.
The 'Citizens for Europe' programme which we are debating today will therefore acquire material and overall value.
I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on a well prepared report.
The European Union needs a programme, especially after the 2004 enlargement, which devotes particular attention to its citizens.
In Lithuania, public opinion polls indicate great mistrust in important state institutions by residents, and there is a sense that voter participation is decreasing.
These indicators are also similar in the European Union.
By introducing the active citizenship initiative, the integration of European values will be noticeable in individual national societies, and the European identity, which is actively formed, will also have a positive influence on common European Union decisions.
The institutions of the European Union must become accountable not just to the governments of Member States and their delegations, but to the citizens of Europe.
The implementation of measures will create greater transparency and a degree of responsibility in the political process of the European Union.
European culture and its diversity will be fostered, and cooperation between citizens and organisations of various countries will be encouraged.
It is important that this programme is accessible to all interested parties, that is non-governmental organisations and educational institutions.
This initiative is the key to citizens having a conscious effect on their own and their children's future in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as a European and Catalan I fully support the need to reinforce historical memory in order to avoid future disasters while we learn from our past.
In Mr Takkula's report there is a proposal to finance historical sites related to the main totalitarian regimes that Europe endured during the 20th century – Nazism and Stalinism.
I agree with him, but we would also like to extend this proposal to other aspects directly related to this kind of authoritarianism.
In our case, in the Catalan country, we suffered Franco's dictatorship which was closely related in origin to Nazism and Italian Fascism.
The only president of a democratic nation killed as a consequence of World War II was Lluís Companys, President of the Catalan Autonomous Government.
The first civilian population bombed indiscriminately by hostile aircraft was Guernica, the emblematic town in the Basque country.
If we neglect Franco's regime and other dictatorships in southern Europe and the need to rescue the historical memory of this dark period of our history, we avoid discussing the consequences of dictatorships, some of them very disturbing for the European Union, even today. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the measures contained in the Citizens for Europe programme will help create sound principles for coexistence and interaction between nations.
In addition, they will contribute to the elimination of stereotypes and help our citizens to become more favourably disposed towards diversity.
I was pleased to note that in the section concerning memorial sites to victims of totalitarian regimes, financial support is made available not only for remembrance of victims of Nazism but also for activities relating to Stalinism.
In view of the meagre budget allocated to this particular aim, however, our efforts should focus only on the two most shocking and horrific of these regimes, whose effects were felt on a massive scale with consequences at global level.
Stalin and Hitler’s regimes must become symbols of evil, and be imprinted on our children’s consciousness as murderous systems.
Accordingly, we must also ensure that suitable sums are allocated to the implementation of appropriate cultural programmes in the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party, and this time I am also speaking as the mayor of a lovely town north of Rome.
As mayor, I have undertaken countless activities to promote a European identity, encouraging the citizens to participate and cooperate, especially through twinning and cultural exchanges in which young people and students, together with others, have played a leading role.
First of all, there is a need to improve communications and information on the activities of our institutions at a local level, and we should therefore promote information campaigns, debates and talks on major European topics.
This programme represents the only opportunity for most citizens of participating in the body of European thought, and becoming involved, as active members of our civil society.
This programme makes all of this possible, with the help of intermediaries, who receive money from this programme.
Indeed, there is no need to reinvent the wheel; there are institutions that have been working on European citizenship for a long time already.
The committee decided against it.
I hope that my fellow Members will not follow him.
These have done a wonderful job, and he can rely on them. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ‘Citizens for Europe’ means arousing citizens’ interest in Europe, informing them about Europe, involving them in decisions, offering them means of communicating, and ultimately filling them with enthusiasm for Europe.
I am convinced, however, that the present programme has the potential to contribute a great deal towards reducing Euroscepticism.
The aim of citizens’ projects is to bring interested parties together to work on European issues, which makes it possible to reach a broad public.
If included in networks, clubs and associations can be an effective tool for reaching citizens, strengthening social cohesion and preventing exclusion or discrimination among a wide variety of groups of people – an important basis for active citizenship and the European dialogue.
The discussion has also shown – and this shows that we were right – that this important issue should not be dealt with as a small contribution to this programme –&#160;as a peripheral phenomenon, as it were – but calls for a programme in its own right.
This is in order to draw attention to all forms of dictatorship and their victims, including, in particular, making young people and future generations aware of the atrocities perpetrated by past regimes, and to work on ensuring that our democracies are, and remain, strong enough to render such inhumane regimes impossible in future. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to congratulate Mr&#160;Takkula on his excellent work and outstanding report.
The first thing that I welcome in it is the proposal to change the title of the programme from ‘Citizens for Europe’ to ‘Europe for Citizens’.
We in this House therefore have the opportunity – I would even say the duty – to make this Europe more transparent, more democratic, easier to understand and, hence, more acceptable.
At such a difficult time in the European integration process as we are now experiencing, when nationalist, separatist tendencies appear to be gaining new legitimacy, disseminating mutual knowledge about our different cultures is certainly a vital means of social integration and of exalting the values that unite us, and it plays a key role in the fight against racism and xenophobia.
To conclude, that is why I think it is important to endow this programme with more substantial, more adequate funding.
Mr&#160;President, the sense of belonging and feeling European also needs to be developed in Europe’s citizens, who no longer want to be subject to Europe but want to create it instead. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Figel’, Mr&#160;Takkula, ladies and gentlemen, in the last century the distinguished historian Hannah Arendt concluded, with wonderful simplicity, but accurately, that nothing is in principle more characteristic of totalitarian regimes and dictators than the astonishingly short space of time it takes for their crimes against humanity to be forgotten and, just as astonishingly, the fact that new tyrants can calmly appear in their place.
Both Hitler and Stalin organised mass deportations, set up death camps and ordered mass murders, slaughtering millions of people, among them defenceless children.
Thank you, Christopher Beazley, for reminding us of these facts.
I call upon you to vote for a reunification of Europe’s history! &#160;&#160; Mr President, tomorrow we will vote on this report on the ‘Citizens for Europe’ programme, which, as other speakers have said, is intended to promote active European citizenship and which comes within the context of the Union’s concern about the citizens’ distance towards the European institutions and the difficulties they face identifying with the process of integration.
I would like to express my full support for this programme and congratulate Mr Takkula on the work he has done.
Let us talk about Action 4 of this programme, which is aimed at the preservation of the memorial sites related to Nazi and Stalinist deportation and mass extermination; I also fully support the memory of these hideous regimes that marked the European and world history of the 20th century.
I would also like to add, however, that under no circumstances can we exclude other victims, who are equally innocent and unfairly treated by history, such as the victims of fascism and other European dictatorships.
If one of the objectives of this programme is to forge a European identity based on common values, history and culture and to strengthen European integration on the basis of respect, mutual understanding and appreciation and cultural diversity, the European Parliament must not fail to acknowledge the history of many European countries which for years suffered repression and murder in their fight for freedom.
And, within the framework of this programme, it is right to recognise the victims of this black period in our history, because that would quite rightly contribute to strengthening the citizens' ties with the Union.
One positive example of this is the twinning programme, which any community can participate in regardless of its size.
The programme is particularly amenable to small communities, as it is very easy to obtain a grant and there are no unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles.
The minimum grant for funding, for example, meetings between members of partnership communities is set very low so that where there is demand it will not be difficult to find the financial support.
The twinning partnerships of towns, and the way that citizens work together to solve European questions or to support voluntary organisations, can strengthen shared European values while at the same time respecting national and regional diversity.
The Member States must supplement these actions with activities in the areas of culture and education.
An emphasis on the fight against racism, xenophobia and intolerance, as well as support for multiculturalism and multilingualism should be recognised as a priority and a common interest.
Today the European Union is becoming a fairground where the politicians of the Member States are guided only by their own interests and the objective of satisfying their voters.
There is not enough of a feeling among citizens of the Member States of the European Union that they are actually citizens of Europe.
In order to develop a feeling of citizenship, it is important to know one another’s history.
My homeland Estonia was wiped from the map by one of the most ruthless dictators in history, Stalin.
We no longer had our own flag or national anthem, and our capital city was Moscow.
Stalin held the entire eastern part of Europe under dictatorial rule for half a century.
Hitler’s war machine violently subjugated the part of Western Europe in which local dictators were unable to seize power themselves.
In seeking the equal remembrance of the victims of Nazism and Stalinism, I am fighting against the merely token acceptance of the new Member States into the European Union.
I would like to emphasise, however, that Nazism and Stalinism are the cornerstone of all other totalitarian ideologies.
Rulers like Franco, Mussolini and Salazar tortured their victims on the example set by Hitler and Stalin.
Each Member State of the European Union should take responsibility for the just assessment of their dictator’s actions in their home country.
It is the duty of the Member States to collectively condemn the cruelties of Hitler and Stalin, which split Europe in two and separated it with an Iron Curtain.
Firstly, I should like to congratulate my friend Mr&#160;Takkula on his report.
It is his first report, it is a big report and he has done an excellent job in raising all the key issues.
It is quite amazing that the chairman of the committee, Mr&#160;Sifunakis, takes a completely opposite view to what has been decided in the committee, but so be it.
My more general remark is really about European citizenship and national citizenship.
Some people seem to think that we are somehow trying to create a European prototype, but I disagree.
I have lived in Brussels for seven years.
To be quite honest, after seven years I think that my prejudices have only strengthened – in a very positive way, but, nevertheless strengthened.
It has no propaganda in it, so I hope the Commission takes it seriously and takes on board all the changes that Mr Takkula has proposed. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the programme to promote active European citizenship, used correctly, has the potential to become a very valuable tool for bridging the gap between the EU and its citizens and combating Euroscepticsm.
With a budget of less than EUR&#160;300&#160;million for seven years and with 36&#160;countries involved, expectations are high.
For this reason, I should like to thank Mr&#160;Takkula, who has made real efforts to achieve a balance and also to refrain from making any cuts in the small budget, for example in the field of town-twinning activities.
We want to promote the active, civil-society projects in the EU, in which there is so much idealism: they need our attention and support.
We also need to remember all the victims of dictatorships, however, and therefore I would ask you to support Amendments 54 and 55 by my group.
The reason for this request is that we should be very careful not to play victims off against one another. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I welcome Mr&#160;Takkuli’s report and the proposal to create an additional, fourth action entitled Active European Remembrance.
Much has been said in this House about economic and social integration, but there has been a tendency to overlook the role of historical integration as a key element of integration.
Communism in general was a curse of the 20th&#160;century.
The nature of relations between European countries and nations is coloured by historical experiences, but even the most difficult and painful of these can be transformed into strong ties of affection.
The House has debated issues relating to historical policy on a number of occasions.
We can easily agree that, although the consensus is strong, there are sometimes questions about programmes or European identity, but that identity is none the less emerging.
I hope that strong support by Parliament, as seen recently in relation to citizenship, youth and education programmes, will be seen at the final meetings of the Troika or current negotiations on the Financial Perspective.
We will mainstream citizenship issues via different actions and different programmes, because that is important.
If you recall John Fitzgerald Kennedy’s message to the people, Europe can be built only on the foundations of mature citizens, and a mature Europe can deliver many answers to our citizens.
I believe that this programme can contribute to such a mature community(1). &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday. &#160;&#160; – Developing a European identity, improving mutual understanding and integration, and valuing diversity through dialogue are fundamental objectives for consolidating the European Union.
The Commission can agree to Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 15, 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 24, 25, 28, 29, 31, 34, 39, 43, 46, 50(2), 51 and 61.
Amendments 12, 14, 16, 20, 27, 30, 32, 37, 41, 42, 44, 48 and 52 can be accepted in principle provided that they are redrafted.
Reserved position pending agreement on financial perspectives on Amendments 36, 45, 49 and 50(3).
It has been appreciated by Member States and the general public alike since its birth 20 years ago in 1985, thanks to Melina Mercouri.
The main idea is still to highlight the richness and diversity of European cultures and the features they share, as well as to promote greater mutual acquaintance between European citizens.
However, our experience has shown that some aspects of the current programme of cooperation need improvement, mainly in four areas: competition between cities, the role of the selection panel, the European dimension of the action, and the monitoring process.
That is why last year the Commission adopted the proposal that is intended to replace the decision of 1999.
The new system should encourage Member States to organise competition at national level between interested cities.
That mixed panel will be made up of seven experts appointed by the institutions, together with six experts to be nominated by the Member State concerned.
The Member State will then propose one city to the European institutions.
As in the past, the Council will make the final decision concerning the designation of the city.
A prize will be awarded to the European Capitals of Culture that meet the criteria and objectives of that initiative.
At the same time, I will propose a substantial increase in the Community contribution to such cities participating in the programme via the Culture 2007 programme.
Consequently, I expect adoption of our amended proposal at first reading.
I should really like to thank the Committee on Culture and Education and in particular the rapporteur Mrs Prets for her efficiency and effort. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, as the Commissioner has already mentioned, some aspects of this 20-year-old agreement were in need of reform.
Although a new decision had been presented in 1999, this had overlooked the fact that we were to be joined a few years later by ten new Member States – perhaps even more – and so these new Member States needed to be taken into account.
Our priority is to redefine the role of the panel.
We have had problems with it in the past, and so we need to ensure that we have a better one in future.
In the second phase, there is a monitoring and advisory panel, which follows this process critically, but plays a supporting role too instead of just identifying shortcomings.
That is very important, as the cities very often feel left alone with their preparations and do not know exactly how to deal with all the rules.
The Member States should bear in mind during the preparatory period that what is important is new cultural activity, and that the public and the individual regions are also involved.
In such cases, a single candidate city would be permissible, but it would have to meet all the challenges and requirements for becoming a European Capital of Culture.
The Commission has promised to present the best practice model on a website.
This website is a very important means of giving guidance and of sharing enquiries and experiences, which is very important to the candidate cities.
I would ask the Commissioner to ensure that the guidance and website are indeed present when this project enters into force.
That will undoubtedly help the cities, as up to now the main problem has been that cities are always left worrying about their money after the event, after everything has been concluded.
I hope that sustainability, good reputation and the impetus given to art and European culture in general find expression in this report, and also in the activities and implementation that follow. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, even though everything has really been said already, I should like to add something, as it is a matter of great concern to me that the European Capital of Culture really become what we have believed it should be all along, namely an advertising medium for European culture.
This cooperation, which was previously intergovernmental – it was actually a government action – has now developed into an interinstitutional matter.
This means that we enjoy excellent cooperation, and also, as Mrs&#160;Prets has already said, our voice has been heard.
I am pleased that the Commission has now overcome its administrative hurdles and a prize has been established – which is not really a prize, of course, but rather the money owing to a city, and means that the city finally has this money at its disposal as it begins its work.
All in all, this action is a very good thing, which, in both this context and that of our previous debate on citizenship, helps the public to see Europe’s great cultural diversity. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I want to give my honourable friend Mrs Pack an explanation as regards the letter.
No other cultural action in the European Union has the same range today or, most importantly, the same projection and mass participation on the part of citizens.
In addition, it is hard to think of many other modern European initiatives in the field of culture which have constituted a standard.
However, experience has shown, as other honourable Members mentioned, that certain specific aspects of this institution could go no further.
The new proposal, on which our rapporteur, Mrs Prets, has done a very good job, tries to reconcile the various viewpoints both within Parliament and within the Council.
Finally, I want to say a couple of words about the prize.
It is important, as the Commission proposed, that there should be this prize in honour of Melina Mercouri.
The proposal that the prize should carry her name was no coincidence on the part of the Commission or, of course, on the part of the 25 Council representatives who accepted it, because Melina Mercouri was the inspiration, the artist who worked the whole time she was Minister of Culture for this prize to be established.
Of course, there has been a compromise in relation to the initial proposal.
At the same time, however, apart from independence of choice, what the Member States need as a guideline is to determine better the methods of intervention mainly in infrastructures if not in programmes. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I very much like the Commission’s proposal, which is designed to strengthen the European dimension and to improve the transparency of the selection procedure for the European Capital of Culture.
To conclude, Mr&#160;President, I hope that tomorrow Parliament will adopt the Prets report, since it is a thorough, rich text that highlights an important Community scheme designed to bring Europe closer to the people through culture, as well as to encourage the development and revitalisation of cities. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to start by thanking Mrs&#160;Prets for her committed and competent work on this report.
Even though some of the previous speakers have already mentioned the problems that occurred in specific cases, I should like to emphasise that, so far, the history of the European capitals of culture has by and large been a successful one.
The individual cities named as capitals of culture have benefited, but so has Europe as a whole, because, time and again, these European capitals of culture have made it clear how diverse, rich and varied European culture is.
Secondly, the objective of establishing a truly European outlook and exchange and of emphasising European added value is a really decisive point in the redrafting of this programme, and there is still more to be done in this regard.
The cities have been promoted and their citizens’ cultural ambitions awakened.
On the negative side, I could mention the concentration of effort and resources on specific cultural events at the expense of social and cultural movements in the city and region concerned.
I could also refer to the lack of a detailed impact assessment of the programme undertaken, and the imposition on Member States and city authorities of criteria that are often inappropriate to the needs and traditions of the cities and regions.
This is a worrying development and we would do well to consider what is most desirable, effective cooperation or imposing one’s will on others.
Personally, I am in favour of dialogue and the creation of conditions for active participation in culture, so as to promote its beauty and diversity.
I hope too that we will eliminate aspects that are not conducive to further development and which, on the contrary, limit the cultural diversity that is vital to bringing about integration and national dialogue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I have placed on record a minority opinion in accordance with Rule 48 of our Rules of Procedure and I shall not vote in favour of this draft.
Nonetheless, I thank Mrs Prets for her work.
I shall give you the reasons for my position.
That would have encouraged them to shoulder their responsibilities.
Instead of strengthening subsidiarity in order to construct the European identity, an identity that is founded on our diversity, the institutions are now acting as project managers: they dictate, make selections and judge, without, for all that, bearing the cost of their decisions, since the European Union’s financial contribution remains small.
Bureaucracy rises like a rampart between local initiatives and, Commissioner, I can only hope that future panels will be more conscientious than those who judged the Luxembourg 2007 project without even all being present and without being informed about the plan to extend to the Great Region and without realising that Luxembourg’s proposal to choose Sibiu in Romania as a partner town was to become so innovative.
The Capital of Culture project should be more than a long firework display of events and, in order to ensure continuity, I proposed to link with the consultations a network of Capitals of Culture to be organised with the support of the Commission.
It is time we finally protected the title of the European Capital of Culture. &#160;&#160; Mr President, needless to say I totally disagree with the previous speaker, with all respect.
I wish to congratulate Mrs Prets on a thorough and carefully set out report.
Programmes such as the one we are discussing tonight indisputably help bring European citizens closer together and strengthen the bonds between them.
On the basis of the experience gained in the 20 years that the programme has been in operation, and due to changes necessitated by the recent enlargement, a review is now urgently needed.
Two of the main alterations necessary are improvements in the selection procedure to be followed and putting a system in place that will ensure that once a city is chosen, a well-planned programme will be carried out successfully.
I once again congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report. &#160;&#160; In a culturally and ethnically diverse Europe, it is very important that we build bridges between nations.
Our guiding principle must be, and must continue to be, to preserve our own culture and to become acquainted with the cultural riches of other nations.
I also welcome the proposal for a prize to be awarded if a city meets the criteria for the European Capital of Culture, as previous organisers have, in many cases, complained about a lack of resources, as the European Union allocated these only after the report had been submitted.
I should like to state that the European Capitals of Culture programme is the most notable of the programmes emphasising the cultural unity of our continent.
Greece and Mrs&#160;Mercouri in particular deserve to be congratulated on the idea of finding a way to show what Europe is all about, and what the cultural unity of our continent actually means.
Commissioner, a way must therefore be found to disseminate relevant information and support Internet sites and other publications.
I am convinced that not only the Committee but also Parliament is keen to make sure that the Capital of Culture programme becomes even better and more popular, and I believe that we are heading in that direction.
I would only like to add that the fact that ten cities in Germany and eleven cities in Hungary are competing for the 2010 title reflects an interest, competitiveness and movement or dynamism in the field of culture and cultural heritage, which is good for the whole of Europe.
I would like to thank you all and to say that we are actually doing many of the things that Mr&#160;Sonik has mentioned in the field of information, consultancy and assistance.
Having said that, I am convinced that this activity, this component of cultural cooperation, deserves significant support. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I cannot fail to mention an outstanding candidate amongst the cities hoping to be named European Capital of Culture for 2010.
I refer to the city of Goerlitz-Zgorzelec, where I had the good fortune to be brought up and educated.
This city was marked by history and divided by the post-World War II border, but thanks to European Union activities it now has an opportunity to be reborn on the map of Europe.
I commend this approach to all undertakings at European level, not just to cultural ones. &#160;&#160; The European City of Culture project’s important role and its mission are undeniable; it contributes to preserving the diversity and richness of European cultural heritage.
Transparency, clarity, monitoring and best practices present the fundamental requirements of all types of selection procedures of the European Community and this should be carried out in the selection of European Capitals of Culture as well.
I can only strongly support the inclusion of Bulgaria and Romania in the programme, giving way to the interest expressed by the two potential new Member States to take part in this action; given the symbolic importance of making them already feel a part of Europe and in order to further enrich our cultural values and diversity.
Please allow me to introduce the position of the European Commission on this matter.
First of all, I would like to express my appreciation to the delegation of Parliament that took part in the conciliation meeting with the Council on 31&#160;January.
In particular I would like to express my thanks to Vice-President Trakatellis and to the rapporteur, Mrs Doyle, and to congratulate them on the outcome.
The discussions in the Conciliation Committee were constructive and the final outcome on key issues – such as standards for containment, labelling, placing on the market, promotion of alternatives, as well as on a number of other important topics – is satisfactory.
The Commission can therefore support the conciliation text and I would encourage Parliament to endorse the very good result obtained by its negotiating team.
I believe that the regulation on F-gases, as well as the directive on mobile air conditioners in cars, will make a significant contribution to the EU’s fight against climate change and to our efforts to achieve our Kyoto emission reduction target.
The Commission estimates that the legislation that we are discussing today will, by 2012, cut emissions of fluorinated gases by some 20 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent annually.
EU climate policy builds on close cooperation between the Commission and Member States.
Only through common and combined action, at European and at national level, will the European Union be effective in reducing its emissions of greenhouse gases.
The Commission therefore welcomes measures taken by Member States to reduce national emissions in order to meet their burden-sharing target.
In that context, however, the Commission’s responsibility is to preserve any right it might have to ensure that all actions carried out to reduce emissions of F-gases are compatible with the Treaty.
That is why the Commission should like issue the following declaration on the question of stricter national measures: ‘The Commission notes the agreement between the European Parliament and the Council on the insertion in the regulation of a provision allowing Member States to maintain, until 2012, more stringent national measures compared to those laid down in the regulation, should these measures be adopted before 31&#160;December 2005.
It results from the Treaty that if, after the adoption of a harmonised measure, a Member State considers it necessary to maintain national measures that are justified by important requirements specified in Article 30 of the EC Treaty, or relating to the protection of the environment or of the working environment, this Member State notifies them to the Commission, indicating the reasons for their maintenance.
Additionally, the Treaty specifies the rules for the acceptance or rejection of these measures by the Commission.
The Commission is therefore obliged to reserve its position on this issue, including any right it may have under the Treaty.’ Once again, I thank Parliament for its open and constructive approach on the F-gases package.
This legislation is a fascinating case study for anyone interested in the institutional decision-making processes of the European Parliament.
Firstly, I wish to thank all my colleagues, in particular the shadow rapporteur, Mrs Corbey, for the cooperation we had during a long and difficult enough debate at times.
They are used in all sorts of applications, some essential, others less so: in insulating foams, in aerosols, in refrigeration and air conditioning systems; in fire protection equipment and switchgear and even in the soles of ‘air-tech’ jogging shoes, as well as, of course, in double-glazed windows.
The list is very long.
With the measures agreed in this package of legislation, they will be reduced by more than 20% from the 1995 levels by 2012.
Of the six greenhouse gases listed in the annex to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, three of them are fluorinated gases.
In all, the current legislation encourages a reduction in emissions of 25 fluorinated gases – hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride – through containment, responsible use, recovery, destruction and disposal.
The aim of the legislation is to enable Member States to meet their Kyoto targets by containing the leakage and restricting the use of fluorinated gases.
Whereas the original Commission draft proposal was in the form of one regulation with a single market legal base, namely Article&#160;95, the Council reached a common position which took the form of two separate texts: a directive based on Article&#160;95 and a regulation based on a dual legal base consisting of Articles&#160;175 and 95.
The rationale for the split of the Commission’s original proposal into two different texts, suggested by the European Parliament at its first reading, was to move all the requirements relating to emissions from air conditioning in motor vehicles from the proposed regulation to Framework Directive 70/156/EEC on the type-approval of motor vehicles.
The proposed regulation would then focus on the remaining statutory applications.
So, having chopped it in two and taken the highly dubious step of dividing the regulation between two legal bases – the main thrust being environment, with some ancillary provisions grounded on the single market legal base – the Council handed the baton back to Parliament.
In the second reading in Parliament, there was no definitive resolution on the crucial vexed issue of the dual legal base of the regulation, which was retained.
My proposal, as rapporteur, to adopt a single environment-linked legal base as the only means of achieving legal certainty, did not obtain the required qualified majority.
Amendments were adopted, however, which attempted to underline the fact that stricter national measures are allowed under single market measures, provided they are proportionate, non-discriminatory and not purely economic in nature.
Article 176 of the Treaty explains this mechanism relating to the environment or the Article&#160;175 laws.
This outcome created great uncertainty for a number of reasons.
Firstly, there was the matter of general principle that, in the interests of promoting better, simpler and clearer legislation, the introduction of an unevenly weighted, dual legal basis represents a dangerous direction and precedent in European policy-making.
Secondly, there is the ECJ’s consistent case-law according to which there should be a sole legal base which reflects the preponderant purpose or the centre of gravity of the legislation.
The centre of gravity of this regulation is indisputably environmental protection, which would warrant an environment base – an approach of minimum harmonisation.
After many exhaustive weeks of informatory preparatory work and meetings, the Conciliation Committee reached agreement on a joint text for the regulation concerning certain fluorinated greenhouse gases – f-gases – on 31&#160;January 2006, which addressed the main points of disagreement between Parliament and the Council, which are namely: the possibility for the Member States to keep or introduce national measures stricter than those foreseen by the regulation; technical provisions regarding f-gas containment; reporting and review of the regulation; definition of placing on the market; cross-border transport or shipment of f-gases for recovery; labelling; notification of measures introducing further bans on f-gases; and the area of training and certification.
Important for encouraging an environmental race to the top was the agreement on the general principle that Member States can maintain or introduce stricter national measures in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty.
In the specific case of the existing national measures in Denmark and Austria, against which the Commission has been considering legal action, a safeguard clause was introduced which would allow the two Member States to keep their legislation until 31&#160;December 2012.
Both countries already have strict legislation on f-gases in place – since the 1970s in the case of Denmark – and they view it as a key measure in their policy mix to achieve their Kyoto climate change targets.
I believe the legislation now agreed and awaiting final sanction by our colleagues in this Parliament tomorrow strikes an equitable balance between environmental protection and single market concerns.
It reaffirms the European Community’s commitment to reducing climate change and will provide a considerable stimulus to the development of new environmental technologies, thus contributing to our Lisbon Agenda knowledge economy goals.
In the laborious process of negotiating this legislation, it was the clear intention of the legislators – Parliament and the Council – to provide for the widest possible interpretation of the powers for environmental measures to be taken on the basis of a single market legal base.
Such a declaration represents a misinterpretation of the outcome of conciliation, where there was a clear if implicit intention to allow stricter national measures on the basis of Article 95(10).
While any declaration from the Commission in this context is non-binding, it may play a role in the purpose of interpretation of the ECJ on this subject, if perchance this legislation, which has already spanned two legislatures, gets a fourth reading at the Court in Luxembourg, as was my concern from the start.
Tonight I want to make it clear that the principal aims of this regulation – to cut our emissions of fluorinated gases – should be respected and adhered to in the fullest sense.
I would urge Commissioner Figeľ to put on the record tonight the Commission’s intention of doing so as soon as possible.
The directive on air conditioning systems in motor vehicles was the second arm of the package of the two proposals to emerge from the Council’s first reading on the recommendation of my predecessor as rapporteur, Mr Goodwill.
I welcome the pioneering decision to introduce a phased ban on fluorinated gases with a global warming potential of more than 150 times the potency of carbon dioxide in motor vehicles.
This ban will apply to new vehicle types in 2011 and to all new vehicles in 2017.
The risk threshold will eliminate the main air conditioning gas currently in use and it will allow less harmful gases to be used instead.
Her statement showed how vigorously she has fought, both in committee and in plenary, for this issue, which is of particular importance for Austria and Denmark, because we are the two Member States with stricter regulations in this area.
Above all, we have shown that it is possible to have stricter regulations without causing economic damage.
The Commission's attitude therefore greatly surprises me, because we successfully concluded a conciliation procedure between the Council and Parliament.
The joint draft of the European Parliament and of the Council, which was approved by the Conciliation Committee on 31&#160;January&#160;2006, provides that Member States may retain national requirements stricter than those foreseen by the Regulation until the end of 2012.
Under Article 95(10) of the EC Treaty, harmonisation measures such as the regulation on these fluorinated greenhouse gases may include a safeguard clause temporarily authorising the Member States to take different measures.
This authorisation has to be granted pursuant to the process laid down in the regulation and in the form prescribed there.
Despite this, however, the Commission does not refer, in its declaration regarding Article 9(3), to the process laid down in the regulation, but repeats the wording of Article 95(4), according to which the stricter national provisions – which, moreover, are justified by recent scientific findings – must be notified to the Commission for approval.
A first milestone has been achieved in the area of climate policy.
Measures are needed urgently in order to reduce the level of greenhouse gases.
The curtailment of f-gases constitutes a major step.
This was warmly supported by a majority in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
The reason is that a number of countries had taken further measures off their own bats.
The internal market should maintain a high level of environmental protection.
The Commission must, of course, closely monitor the situation and ensure that the restrictions of market access are proportionate.
This is what is desperately needed, because innovation is important for climate policy, but ultimately also for our economy and for the Lisbon agenda.
Consideration has been given to countries such as Denmark and Austria, which have taken the ban on fluorinated gases further, and other countries can follow their lead.
When, tomorrow, the European Parliament adopts the conciliation committee’s document by what I hope will be a very large majority, I assume that Environment Commissioner Mr&#160;Dimas will take the opportunity to withdraw the Commission’s letter of formal notice addressed to Denmark.
Now that the Community legislation has been changed, there will be no basis for taking legal proceedings against Denmark at the European Court of Justice.
It was depressing to hear in the corridors that the Commission’s legal service has refused to accept the outcome of the conciliation or has tried to misinterpret it.
Allow me to remind the Commission that it would be quite unprecedented and completely unacceptable if the new Community legislation were not administered by the Commission.
The Council and the European Parliament have approved the agreement and the content of the conciliation document.
I would therefore ask you, Commissioner, to withdraw the letter of formal notice addressed to Denmark following tomorrow’s vote when a large majority of Parliament has voted in favour of the document.
But having said that, while my Group can live with the directive on mobile air-conditioning – although in our view it is still too weak – we cannot accept the results of the conciliation on the regulation on F-gases, in spite of Mrs Doyle's good offices to try to get a better deal, but which ultimately failed.
Yet what we have in front of us is a regulation with a legal base that casts doubt on the ongoing right of Austria and Denmark to keep their stricter national laws beyond six years and that will actively work against the ability of other Member States to adopt them.
We have a regulation that fails to recognise the fact that alternatives already exist for most F-gas applications, that fails to promote substitution and that will set back the introduction of safe and innovative alternatives for years, not just in the European Union but in the developing world as well, where F-gas emissions are predicted to grow enormously over the next few decades.
So I repeat again the question that others have raised: Would the Commission clarify once and for all whether it will drop the proceedings against Austria and Denmark?
We believe that Mrs&#160;Doyle has done the best she possibly could in a difficult situation and has tried to go as far as humanly possible in claiming the right to retain and to introduce better environmental requirements.
More rapid progress can be made in abolishing these very dangerous greenhouse gases.
The most serious consideration of all, however, is that there is now an active risk of putting obstacles in the way of countries that want to tighten up their national legislation in this area.
This situation violates the spirit of the Kyoto Protocol and could be an obstacle to countries that wish to combat climate change which, as we all know, is the most serious environmental threat we face.
Where Denmark and Austria are concerned, they are to be given a guarantee up until the year 2012, whereupon the guarantee will come to an end.
We shall then not know what is to happen, and there will again be a danger of these countries actively being forced to curb the legislation they already have.
This situation is completely unacceptable.
What you are saying is that the market remains more important than the environment.
Companies’ right to sell dangerous gases is more important than political opportunities to combat the greenhouse effect and climate change.
The Commission will thus be a party to the compromise reached between the Council and Parliament in the conciliation procedure.
I should like to thank Mr&#160;Barroso and Mr&#160;Verheugen for their personal support in this matter, and I should also like to thank the President of the European Council, Mr&#160;Schüssel, who has offered his personal support in relation to a matter that was initially dropped by the Council of Ministers when Austria took over the Presidency.
People will thank us if, by means of majority decisions, we secure a common level of protection and, at the same time, give countries permission to be pioneers.
The next task must, of course, be that of convincing all the countries that there are technical alternatives, so that we might obtain a common EU ban on fluorinated gases, preferably before 2012 when the Kyoto Agreement is to be renewed in a spirit of consideration for future generations.
The regulation and directive before us are both important steps in our objective to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Fluorinated greenhouse gases are one example of how difficult it is to solve environmental problems.
Their potential for global warming is 100 or even 1&#160;000 times greater than carbon dioxide, and the time the gases take to disperse into the atmosphere can be very long indeed.
This is why the threat of climate change means we need to cut down on the use of fluorinated hydrocarbons.
One of the biggest problems with the regulation under discussion was its legal basis.
I have always wondered why environmental grounds are always automatically thought to be more environmentally friendly, while those for the internal market are branded as being in the interests of industry.
Only then would there be a proper incentive for our industry to compete on a level playing field in an environmentally friendly way. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in the discussions prior to Austria's accession to the European Union, one of the main arguments put forward by those opposed to accession was the danger that environmental standards would fall.
Greenhouse gases are currently on the agenda, and the effects of climate change can be seen in the news, in the form of the floods in Germany and Austria.
Austria and Denmark have acted consistently.
Given the dangers now facing the global climate, penalising the pioneers of environmental protection is completely absurd. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, at the end of the debate you are now getting a hefty dose of Austrian contributions.
Austria may well, unfortunately, not always be a model pupil when it comes to environmental policy, but on the issue of fluorinated greenhouse gases we have stricter measures than were proposed in the package of harmonised legislation.
In my view, the European Union has two choices: either we harmonise at a high, ambitious level, or we continue to allow the Member States to retain their stricter, more ambitious targets and measures.
Experience in those countries has shown that there are alternatives to these gases.
The draft approved by the Conciliation Committee at the end of January provides that Member States may retain stricter national requirements until 2012.
I also call on the Commission to take note of the attitude of Parliament and the Council and to give the Member States the necessary room for manoeuvre. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I had actually intended to make a different speech but, having heard the debate in this House, I must thank Mrs&#160;Doyle for her splendid contribution.
It is therefore exclusively Mrs&#160;Doyle whom I shall thank for her splendid but, it has to be said, entirely fruitless efforts. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I too wish to thank Mrs&#160;Doyle for taking such a heroic stance in this Assembly.
The Council and the Commission have defended old, outmoded technology in the internal market instead of defending the climate.
I would also like to make a request on the record now, so the message gets through, that we will be calling on the Austrian Presidency to comment tomorrow on this specifically.
There is a lot of unhappiness here about the Commission declaration. &#160;&#160; The Council will be here tomorrow.
The Commissioner may respond today.
As to the question on the declaration, I am not in a position to withdraw the declaration, which I delivered on behalf of the European Commission, but I can assure you that the adoption of the new legal status – the vote on the conciliation text – will have an impact on the pending cases, which have been mentioned repeatedly.
The vote will take place tomorrow.
