European ports policy (debate) The next item is the report by Josu Ortuondo Larrea, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on a European ports policy.
The communication on a European ports policy is a response to the sector's needs and concerns as identified by the Commission following a broad consultation of the port sector from November 2006 to June 2007.
The goods transport chain - 90% of international trade and transport - requires that each link, each node, is optimised in view of this rate of flow.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, ports in Europe are a driving force for the economy.
No less than 90% of Europe's international trade takes place via the ports.
Every year sees the transhipment of more than 3 million tonnes of goods from all over the world.
In 2006 Parliament rejected the proposal on market access to port services for the second time.
The Commission will also provide clarification on how EU environmental legislation is to be interpreted in relation to port expansion and development.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) Madam President, we cannot go along with the assessment of this European Commission initiative, as we consider it is attempting, as a last resort, to promote the liberalisation of port services at European Union level.
In its communication, the Commission states how it faced the challenge of the need to reconcile ports' and development management with transparency, competition and the body of EU law in general, as well as the establishment of a real internal market for maritime transport in Europe, for which it will put forward a legislative proposal, that is to say, the objective is to extend the inclusion of port management in the competition rules of the European Union's internal market.
Ports are of major importance not only for transport in Europe, but also as an important element in the economy and a source of employment.
Their effective functioning and continuing development are of fundamental importance for the competitiveness of the European Union, and for Europe, in a world where globalisation is proceeding.
There are more than 1,200 mercantile ports in the European Union employing half a million people directly or indirectly.
My home country, Estonia, is also a maritime country and I am pleased that this report focuses on debottlenecking in the port sector in several Member States.
Unfortunately, I must point out that there are two ports in Italy, Naples and Gioia Tauro, that have been found to be in serious breach of the law.
This also increases the role of Member States - and, as a member of the Committee on Regional Development, it is this that I should like to discuss once more.
I know that the European Commission is working on a document regarding the territorial cohesion that must be realised not only in Western Europe, the old Member States, but also in the new Member States and beyond.
Madam President, as the report rightly points out, ports are not only important for transport but also provide our citizens with jobs, have a significant impact on our economies, and are strategic for the security and defence of our Member States.
Madam President, paragraph 44 of this report calls on Member States to employ a trans-border approach to the use of existing capacities when co-financing port infrastructure.
The Greek Government has set in motion a very ambitious programme to transfer parts of port operations to independent, private operators, who will bring a new dynamism not only to the Greek economy, but also to the wider area of South-East Europe.
The Government does not have any policy on freight transport by rail.
It is necessary for local communities to be involved in what happens on their territory and to be included in determining the ports policy.
We should again turn to the discussion of the matter of drafting a directive on the application of minimum requirements in accordance with the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil. (PL) Madam President, our discussion on European ports policy coincides with a time of very dynamic changes in the shipbuilding industry.
Romania's and Bulgaria's accession provides the European Union with an exit to the Black Sea and, implicitly, direct access to important sea ports such as Constanţa, Mangalia, Varna and Burgas, as well as to ports situated on the maritime Danube: Galaţi, Brăila, Tulcea and Sulina.
We welcome the fact there is to be a European Maritime Day on 20 May each year, with an open day to help the public gain a better understanding of the work and importance of the port sector for our lives and our well-being.
The vote will take place on Thursday 4 September.
