Since 1991, the European Union has suspended, partially or in full, the common customs tariff duties on imports into the Canary Islands of a number of products.
The import quotas at reduced tariff proposed now by the Commission follow on from similar measures laid down in Council Regulation (EC) No 704/2002 of 25 March 2002, which covered the period from 1 January 2002 to 31 December 2006.
The tariff quotas are to be seen, in terms of support to the Canary Islands' economy, as complementing other measures taken on the basis of Article 299(2) of the EC Treaty, in particular the scheme to compensate for the additional costs incurred in the marketing of certain fishery products from the outermost regions - implemented by means of Council Regulation (EC) 791/2007 of 21 May 2007.
The Commission considers that it is not in the proposed tariff quota regulation that measures to combat IUU fishing should be included.
rapporteur. - (ES) Mr President, the exceptional geographical situation of the Canary Islands in relation to the sources of supply of certain fishery products which are essential for domestic consumption entails additional costs for the sector in this region and, as the Commissioner has just said, since 1991 the European Union has tried to remedy this natural handicap by, among other measures, temporarily suspending customs duties on imports of the products in question from third countries.
In the Canary Islands Regional Parliament there are no Green members; in the 88 councils in the Canary Islands there are no Green councillors; of the 29 councillors on Las Palmas City Council there are no Green councillors; the Greens are barely present on a couple of councils in the Canary Islands, where they are definitely in a coalition with the People's Party.
We should not, however, accept this type of amendment, that would result in the removal of the concessions that the European Union makes so that, in our region, this small and modest region, with a surface area of only 7 500 km2, and 2 million inhabitants, we can continue to survive.
We are talking about small territories, in total a population of 4 million inhabitants, distributed in islands in the Pacific, the Atlantic and the Caribbean, which will find themselves in difficulty if special measures are not applied to them.
I repeat what I have just said, that we are committed to fighting IUU and have proposed a comprehensive regulation which we hope will be adopted in two weeks' time in the Council meeting on 24 June.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 18 June 2008.
