Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Madam President, in some cases I find it hard to see the connection between the supplementary and the original question, but if you take a liberal approach to these things, I shall also be liberal with my answers.
As far as nuclear power stations are concerned, the European Commission has a perfectly clear policy, which is the policy of the European Union as a whole.
Vice-President of the Commission. - The Commission strongly supports the promotion of sustainable urban development which fully respects the environment.
The Commission adopted its thematic strategy on the urban environment in 2006.
The strategy recognises the whole of sustainable urban development in relation to the quality of life, but the strategy also recognises the diversity that exists between citizens in the European Union.
Guidance should be seen as a description of the process, and a reminder of the key elements that could be considered when developing integrated environmental management programmes and sustainable urban transport plans at local level.
The Commission recalls the wealth of ideas on urban development which has allowed the ministers responsible for urban affairs to reach a consensus based on the Lille Action Programme, the Rotterdam Urban Acquis, the Bristol Accord and, more recently, the Leipzig Charter on Sustainable European Cities adopted at an informal Council meeting on 25 May 2007.
I understand the honourable Member's question, because there is a risk that in the future a prioritisation of traffic may increasingly be introduced.
That is why, in the telecom reform package, which was adopted by the Commission on 13 November 2007 and presented to Parliament that same day, we proposed to give national telecom regulators the power to set minimum quality levels for network transmission services based on technical standards identified at EU level.
I was very happy with your answer.
Those Member States with most competition in terms of open markets are also those Member States which have most competition in terms of infrastructure.
The good practice exercise has, up to now, provided more than 250 examples of proven and successful SME policy measures.
In around 80 of these cases, Member States indicated that they have been inspired by measures from other Member States in the development of their own policies.
This year's Charter conference in Berlin attracted 350 participants, the highest number of participants ever, and I was very happy that I was able to be there and to address those people from more than 40 countries.
The next Charter conference will take place from 3 to 4 June 2008 in Bled, Slovenia.
The Commission sees that the Charter is highly useful in encouraging the Member States to improve the business environment for small enterprises all over Europe.
I wanted to make two points in my supplementary question, on how we should move this initiative forward and build on its success.
Vice-President of the Commission. - On the first question, I would like to confirm that all the SME organisations are indeed fully involved, and that we have finalised a project that will create a network for small business support everywhere in the European Union.
We have clearly identified one of the reasons for European SMEs being less dynamic, for instance, than American SMEs, which is that American SMEs grow faster, are more profitable, are more innovative and on average employ more people.
Bigger companies would use the right of establishment and would be everywhere.
Vice-President of the Commission. - The issue of noise emissions of four-wheeled motor vehicles - cars, vans, trucks and buses - is addressed by UNECE Regulation No 51 and equivalent Directive 70/157/EEC introducing noise tests and limit values.
The maximum allowed sound level lies today between 74 dBA for passenger cars and 80 dBA for heavy trucks.
It was therefore decided that, before reducing the limits once again, it was first of all necessary to develop a new test cycle and bring the driving conditions for the noise test closer in line with real-life driving operations.
The consultation proposes reduction of around 4 dBA for passenger car tyres and 6 dBA for commercial vehicle tyres: it is quite considerable.
I welcome the fact that there are two regulations, as you mentioned, Commissioner: UNECE Regulation No 51 and Directive 70/157/EEC.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission is following closely the recent developments in prices in Member States.
The Commission is very much aware of the structural problems in the sector too.
The Commission has always been of the opinion that consumers should be the main beneficiaries of liberalisation.
By increasing consumer awareness and rights with respect to their energy consumption, the Commission is providing the tools for a functioning retail market. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, I am pleased you are keen to allow consumers of gas and electricity to be the priority beneficiaries by applying more restrictive measures in this sector, which we hope will have some effect on prices for EU citizens, downwards of course.
That means that these two issues are actually in the hands of the governments.
On consumer power, we have adopted a consumer rights charter and this definitely gives all the right information about the rights of consumers stemming from all existing legislation.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission pays great attention to the security of supply situation in south-east Europe.
Moreover, new gas sources will allow the development of the gas sector in those countries where it does not exist yet.
In particular, it strongly supports the development of the Nabucco project and other gas projects and LNG developments in the region, as well as well-grounded oil projects aimed at achieving the diversification objective.
The Commission also considers that Russia will in the future remain an important energy source for south-east Europe but alongside other sources from the Mediterranean Basin and the Caspian Sea region. (DE) First of all, thank you very much for your very good and thorough reply.
Nabucco is advancing well, as has been reported in the Council.
The issue of South Stream is very clear-cut.
The Council recommendation of 12 July 1999 on the limitation of exposure of the general public to electromagnetic fields establishes a framework of minimum restrictions and reference levels, but the Member States are responsible for the implementation of the measures.
Overhead power lines are often the most cost-efficient solution for long-distance transmission of over 50 km.
The construction of overhead electrical power lines with a voltage of 220 kW or more and a length of more than 15 km has to undergo an environmental impact assessment.
Concerning scientific evidence on exposure of the general public to electromagnetic fields, there is a general limitation, there are the Council recommendations that I mentioned dating from 12 July 1999, and there are minimum framework restrictions and reference levels.
One needs to be aware that a Natura 2000 site may be involved or that there may be some impact on the environment.
Commissioner Piebalgs stays with us but will now answer questions on behalf of Commissioner Dimas.
The legal basis for the current programme is the LIFE+ Regulation.
To be eligible, the organisations should pursue activities in at least three EU Member States.
To conclude, I would like to ask Commissioner Piebalgs to use the official name which the European Union has accepted, when referring to third countries. (DE) Commissioner, I should like to ask you a question on this subject that has been occupying me for a long time.
Member of the Commission. - The legal basis is very clear: it is the LIFE+ Regulation.
Subject: Waste crime / protection of the environment through criminal law In February 2007 the European Commission proposed a directive (COD/2007/0022) that obliges Member States to treat serious offences against the environment as criminal acts and to set minimum sanctions for environmental crimes such as waste crime.
Member of the Commission. - Ensuring that Member States correctly apply EU waste legislation and preventing illegal waste activities are among the Commission's top priorities.
The proposed environmental crime directive will ensure that serious environmental offences are subject to effective criminal sanctions throughout the European Union.
This concerns, in particular, illegal landfills and illegal waste shipments, which are covered by important EU legislation.
Guidelines are continuously developed regarding key EU waste legislation, such as on waste shipments and targeting particular problematic waste schemes, for example, waste electrical and electronic equipment and light vehicles.
The Commission is also encouraging Member States to make use of funding opportunities at EU level and to ensure that the waste programme expenditure under the various instruments contributes to the improved implementation of waste legislation.
When their assessment shows that Member States are not complying with their obligations under the directive, the Commission initiates infringement procedures in accordance with Article 226 of the EC Treaty.
As regards agglomerations of more than 10 000 inhabitants, Greece has designated 36 sensitive areas.
Out of the 18 agglomerations discharging into those areas, 14 comply with the requirements of the directive.
However, the Commission considers that 10 other water bodies should have been designated as sensitive areas.
The Greek authorities contest the need for the designation of those areas as sensitive.
As regards the specific question of the agglomeration of Thriasio Pedio, in its judgment of 24 June 2004, the Court of Justice declared that Greece had failed to install a collecting system and to provide for appropriate treatment.
The Commission has therefore initiated an infringement procedure in accordance with Article 228 of the Treaty.
As regards agglomerations of more than 15 000 inhabitants or their equivalent, out of the 75 agglomerations, 52 meet the standards laid down by the directive as regards collection systems for urban waste water and secondary treatment.
In its judgment of 25 October 2007, the Court ruled that 23 agglomerations still did not comply with the requirements of the directive.
As far as the Cohesion Fund is concerned, in Greece 41 projects are currently open.
However, in some cases I mentioned, we can inform you about progress on the Operational Programme 'Environment', but we cannot report on each project, because this information is available to each Member State.
