Mid-term review of the Sixth Community Environment Action Programme (debate) (FR) The next item is the report by Riitta Myller, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the mid-term review of the Sixth Community Environment Action Programme.
rapporteur. - (FI) Madam President, Commissioner Dimas, the targets under the Sixth Environment Action Programme are not going to be achieved as a result of the sort of environmental policy being implemented in the EU.
What then can we still do to get back on the road to achieving the targets in the Sixth Environment Action Programme?
In other words, the ambitious environmental goals are both improving European citizens' quality of life and central to achieving our goals in economic development and employment.
opinion draftsperson for the REGI Committee. - (BG) Madam President, Commissioner, colleagues, as the opinion draftsperson for the Regional Development Committee I would like to underline the significant role of regional and local government authorities in ensuring environmental protection and sustainable development.
on behalf of the PSE group. - (HU) In terms of the goals set out in the Sixth Community Environment Action Programme, we are lagging behind in many regards.
The air in our cities is polluted and unhealthy.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FI) Madam President, many thanks to Riitta Myller for her excellent report and for her cooperation.
Second: implementation of directives on the Natura 2000 networking programme has also stalled.
I do not think that it is an assessment document.
As a result, the likelihood that everything will be done by 2012 and that the priority goals will be met is rather low.
It is also very important to ensure the effective implementation of environmental regulations.
There are also problems with Natura 2000.
The Commission would like the European Parliament's support so that a full assessment of all environmental aspects can be guaranteed during the consideration of proposals by other institutions as well.
Finally, the report highlights the key role of the national, regional and local authorities, as well as of citizens, consumers and businessmen, in attaining the environmental targets set in the EU's Sixth Environment Action Programme.
I would just like to mention that that the Finnish in Amendment 14 is very odd: the English text should be used as a reference. (FR) The debate is closed.
Written declarations (Rule 142) in writing. - (PL) As a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, I think it would be a good thing if we were to accept the Sixth Environment Action Programme according to Article 251 of the EC Treaty, i.e.
through a codecision procedure.
For instance, the objective of stopping the loss of biodiversity by 2010 cannot be achieved, and the strategies proposed for protecting the marine environment and the soil will give no concrete results by 2012.
