Frontex needs to have adequate material and logistical resources to be able to carry out one-off joint operations as well as permanent surveillance missions in high-risk areas.
Frontex must be able to continue expanding working agreements and establishing cooperation with the countries of origin in accordance with its specific needs.
Ladies and gentlemen, we must bear in mind the fact that Frontex and Eurosur are not a panacea but valuable tools serving a European migration policy, the ultimate objective of which is that immigration should be a factor for development, both for the host countries and for the countries of origin, but most of all for the immigrants themselves.
These include, for example, forcing Member States to provide the agency with certain equipment or to allow the agency to lease or buy its own equipment.
In this respect, I would point out that the results of the independent assessment of the agency's mandate, as laid down in Article 33 of the FRONTEX regulation, will be known in 2009.
I am one of those who believe that, if FRONTEX could carry out its surveillance operations as close as possible to the borders of third countries' coasts, this would prevent humanitarian disasters and would allow much more effective surveillance of our borders.
I should therefore like to thank you for the European Parliament's important and comprehensive support of the Commission's communications on FRONTEX.
However, the solidarity referred to here is not solidarity with fellow human beings, who are fleeing their countries, but rather solidarity between Member States.
This shows that FRONTEX is doing its part in respecting human life and human rights.
Yet we must do more, we want FRONTEX to be more productive in its operations.
Before I finish, I would like to wish all Members, our fantastic Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, the President and Commissioner Barrot a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
As such, it should not only respect the EU's fundamental values in its activities, but also work for their promotion, particularly in a field which touches upon critical questions relating to migration and freedom of movement.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should try to draw up a balance sheet of Frontex's failures over the past three years.
There have been just in excess of 30 joint operations at the borders, deaths at sea have increased over the last three years and the vast majority of resources which, alas, are continuing to increase, are destined for the protection of maritime borders, in spite of the fact that Frontex itself tells us that only 15% of irregular immigrants arrive in the European Union by sea.
Turning people back at the borders is a reactionary utopia, and I believe that it is very difficult to curtail the natural need for free movement of men and women.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, Fortress Europe now starts on the African Continent, where illegal immigrants are intercepted by the authorities before they reach the European Union, and this is done with financial and logistical support from the European Union on behalf of the local authorities.
Amendment 4 to Mr Moreno Sánchez's report receives my support.
Libya is an important transit country for illegal immigration in the direction of Europe.
As regards the assessment by Parliament of the strategy package for the long-term management of the EU's borders, I regret that the discussion of the FRONTEX and EUROSUR reports did not coincide with the discussion of the Commission's proposals on the entry/exit system, the travel registration programme and the Electronic System for Travel Authorisation (ESTA) so that we could have an overall vision of how the management of the European Union's eastern borders will evolve in the future. (BG) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 670 km of the Black Sea coast have now been part of the European Union's external eastern border for more than two years.
This strategy must be geared towards getting the key countries in the region involved in the projects and activities being carried out by the Member States of the European Union.
Another important initiative which needs to receive more resources and funding, not only from European institutions but from Member States too, is increased provision of training for staff involved in FRONTEX logistics and operations.
To enable them to accomplish the tasks that they have been assigned successfully, those working for the Member States' border control authorities need to be well versed in international and maritime law and in asylum law and basic human rights.
As an MEP from Romania, which manages over 2 000 km of the EU's external eastern border, I would also like to emphasise that it is vitally important for us to give this border our full proper attention. (PL) Mr President, the European Union currently lacks a comprehensive plan for cooperation with countries on its eastern borders.
Besides the long-term objectives which the European Union has set for these countries, we should also define specific short-term objectives, as well as implementing a system to assess to what extent these countries comply with established principles of cross-border cooperation.
I believe that FRONTEX has a role to play, and a positive role at that.
I have had the opportunity to see first hand - for example, when we were in Senegal and also at its headquarters in Warsaw - that all the men and women working for Frontex are highly committed to their jobs and very conscious of the work they are doing.
In my view, there are two concepts that we need to discuss in great depth.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 18 December 2008.
However, I entirely share the rapporteur's view that FRONTEX has to be accompanied by a legal immigration policy in order to effectively fight illegal immigration.
Last but not least, cooperation with third countries should be a priority as well, in order to increase FRONTEX's efficiency.
in writing. - (PL) The work of the FRONTEX agency interests me, as it is the only European Union institution based in Poland.
Since 2005, FRONTEX has provided these instruments, as well as a surveillance system for EUROSUR borders.
Even if we accept that each Member State should have control over its own borders, in view of the situation on our eastern and southern borders, we should cooperate to share the material and human resources available, in order to combat this phenomenon.
In addition to measures aimed at controlling the influx of illegal immigrants, FRONTEX should also contribute to strengthening a global partnership with third countries and be responsible for making certain decisions concerning the right to asylum.
