&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 26 February 2004. &#160;&#160; It is my sad duty today to express, on behalf of this House, our condemnation and our grief at the terrorist attacks in Baghdad and Karbala last Tuesday, 2 March 2004, aimed at the Shiite community as they celebrated the festival of Ashoura.
At least 170 innocent people were killed and almost 400 injured in those attacks.
In Austria, Denmark, Germany and Switzerland the German feminist, Clara Zetkin, who wanted a single day to remember the 1857 strike of garment workers in the United States, took the initiative in March 1911 when more than a million men and women rallied to demand to right to work, to hold public office and to vote.
In line with this resolution, I announce with pleasure today that the Bureau has taken the decision to establish a high-level group on gender equality within this House, composed of the President of the House, two Vice-Presidents responsible for staff matters, the Chair of the Conference of Committee Chairpersons and the Chair of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, assisted by the Secretary-General.
The creation of this group, which will start to work before the end of this legislative period, gives a very clear signal of political will and political commitment at the highest level of this House to succeed in this regard.
I have also received messages of goodwill and support from previous chairs of that committee. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, your establishment of the high-level working group is a good sign that, by implementing gender mainstreaming, you are demonstrating what this House wants.
Rather than gender mainstreaming and the gender dimension to our policies being left to women alone, the gentlemen in this House must allow themselves to be judged by the degree to which they are willing to join in taking policy decisions that make equality and women’s democratic rights real.
I can only urge all the committees to adopt projects in their own areas of responsibility – in accordance with the resolution in our report, a year ago, on gender mainstreaming – and to make it clear that mainstreaming gender equality is not just to be left to the Committee on Women’s Rights. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I have a very simple suggestion to make to the other groups and that is to follow the example of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance by nominating two Vice-Chairmen, one man and one woman.
From experience I can say that this solution does not only provide advantages from a political point of view, but also in terms of quality of life. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wanted to thank you for what you said about the occasion of 8&#160;March and I believe that&#160;–&#160;as Mrs&#160;Gröner mentioned&#160;–&#160;we are all concerned about how important the presence of women will be in the next Parliament and about how difficult it will be to keep the presence of women at an acceptable level.
This is why I would like to suggest to you, Mr&#160;President, that the Parliament services carry out a very simple study into what women have achieved in parliamentary work during this term.
Therefore, persuading women to vote for women by starting with the work that women have carried out could be a very convincing argument.
I believe that this argument is much more convincing than so many others in calling for a greater presence of women in the next Parliament. &#160;&#160; I am happy to ask the services to look into that matter and to report back to the House in due course. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I thank you on behalf of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities, which I have the honour of chairing, for the statement you made on the occasion of International Women’s Day and for the emphasis which you and other honourable Members placed on the fact that there must be a balanced representation of women and men in the European Parliament to come out of the elections in June.
Nonetheless, I have already received a very serious complaint from the women’s organisations in Malta, which inform us that the leaders of the political parties are already compiling their lists without including a single woman.
I wonder if the population of Malta consists only of men and not women.
I should like to ask you, in honour of today’s International Women’s Day, to intervene personally in this matter and to remind the political leaders of Malta that they must respect the principle of gender equality and the ; otherwise their position in the European Union looks set to be very problematic. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking you for having included this mini-debate on the agenda on International Women’s Day.
It is traditional in all countries on this day to dedicate some kind of act or statement to the recognition of women’s work, equality between men and women and the fact that there is still much to be done in order to make this equality a reality.
We are going to see this in the debates to follow.
We will see in the debates on the reports to follow that there is still much to be done in order to achieve equality between men and women and in order to achieve equal recognition of work.
This plenary could even be held without a debate or by restricting the discussion to the two-minute speeches by the Commission and the person who drafted the report.
I should also like, however, to sound a note of warning to the women here in Parliament: stop focusing so much upon whether there should be more men or women in Parliament, and try to consider the millions of women who are grossly underpaid for doing the same work or work of the same value.
I also think it is a good day that has been chosen for the international day of action, namely my birthday. &#160;&#160; Thank you for that contribution, Freddy, and happy birthday! &#160;&#160; Mr President, today, on International Women’s Day, I wish not only to draw attention to the entire issue of discrimination against women, but also to raise the issue of women who are victims of war.
Today, we must remember the suffering of women who are victims of war, in Iraq, in Palestine, and in so many other countries.
I also wish to remind you that the World Social Forum has called on us all to take part, on 20 March, in the demonstrations against the war, to safeguard peace, on the first anniversary of the war waged against Iraq by the United States, the United Kingdom and their allies and to call for an end of the occupation of Iraq, to call for peace. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today also – International Women’s Day – I would like to make an appeal to this House.
I would ask this House for a minute’s silence, both for the 13 women who have died already this year in Spain and for those who have been murdered elsewhere in the world. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is good that a new high-level group is being set up genuinely to tackle gender mainstreamingin the institutions of the EU.
It is what all the Member States, their governments and their politicians have done ever since the Beijing Conference of 1995.
I should like to know how much account has been taken of women’s needs and women’s rights in the debate on the proposal to privatise water in the European Union.
Of course, this will also be a signal beyond the borders of the EU. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, exactly 38 years ago, in this very House, which was then known as the Assembly, I delivered my first report on women – and men, of course.
As regards the 1986 Directive on equal treatment of self-employed workers, for example, including those working in agriculture, I draw your attention to our demands for a Directive on the status of spouses, which is so important to the millions of invisible workers, mostly self-employed women working in agriculture.
I also draw your attention to the own-initiative report in which I called for a framework directive on the entitlement to share pension rights in the event of divorce, a major issue for all women.
Sadly, nothing has happened, which is something that I regret, because it is a waste of time to have mature debates and eloquent speeches on 8&#160;March if we do not submit legislative proposals that will genuinely advance the policy and the equal treatment of men and women. &#160;&#160; Mr President, apart from you, I think I am the only Liberal here, and that is why I want to intervene.
Preparations have, in essence, been made for this, so we may yet be able to conclude a first reading agreement. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I do not believe there was any need for further deliberation.
We are at the end of a parliamentary term and want, if possible, to come to an agreement at first reading, so that we will not have to start from the beginning again when the House reconvenes, going through first reading again and then debating the common position.
Having the vote itself at the next sitting will not take up much time, and so I ask you, Mr President, to put it to the vote.
We would therefore request that the debate be wound up with a resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to draw this House’s attention to the Commission’s refusal to follow up, within the framework of interinstitutional accords, a request for information regarding the possible award of EUR 230&#160;million Euratom funding to the Cernavoda nuclear complex.
I should therefore like to request your support, Mr President, in compelling the Commission to comply with the right to information, as provided for in the interinstitutional accords. &#160;&#160; I will take up that matter and correspond with the Commission and with you in due course. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wanted to draw this House’s attention to an event that is stirring up feeling in the hearts and minds of Italians.
Young terrorists in Italy have struck more than once in recent years and are trained by Italian terrorists that are in jail.
As regards its wider publication, I note the point you make.
If self-interest serves, then perhaps we might note that the latest scientific evidence forecasts that Europe will get colder. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to draw your attention and that of the House to a serious problem that has arisen in Mozambique involving the alleged trafficking of human organs.
One recently drew my attention to the fact that over the years nearly 29 tonnes of depleted uranium have been deposited in the waters off south-west Scotland, therefore also affecting the Irish Sea.
I feel that Mr Putin, the President of a so-called democracy, has reacted in an absolutely disgraceful manner.
I also hope that the numerous Members of this House who have already met him will wish to express their solidarity to him in person, tomorrow and on Wednesday.
In its conclusions the report states that action against torture in Spain is no less of a pressing need today than it used to be in the past.
I would ask you to write to the President of the Republic of Mozambique and to the President of that country’s National Assembly to express the concern of Members of the European Parliament at a truly appalling situation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we will, this week, be meeting survivors of the war in Congo that has already claimed 3&#160;500&#160;000 victims.
I rejoice that peace is – apparently – underway, and hope that those involved will experience this in the same way, because at the moment, the conflict in Kivu is, to all intents and purposes, still very definitely ongoing.
For women, in particular, the situation remains bleak.
The participation of women in the European Parliament rose from 6% of the appointed Parliament to 16% in 1979, when the first elections were held, and to 31% in 1999.
We are aiming for and hoping that this percentage will increase still further in the forthcoming elections in the enlarged Europe of the 25.
Nonetheless, despite the undisputed achievements, significant differences and discrepancies continue to exist between the two sexes in all sectors, as stated in the Commission’s first annual report, which will be discussed at the spring European Council in a few days’ time.
Violence against women, trafficking in human beings, unemployment, incompatibility between professional and private life, inadequate care facilities for children and the elderly, inequalities in pay and promotion are burning issues which urgently need to be resolved, in that they relate directly both to the infringement of rights and to the sustainability and competitiveness of the economy.
Looking back over the last five years, the review of the directive on equal treatment in the workplace and the promotion of gender mainstreaming were an important milestone in promoting equal opportunities.
It is a fact that, with our joint efforts and within the framework of the future European constitution, we can slowly but surely bridge the gender gap in the Union and act as a shining example to the rest of the world, to areas of the planet in which women are still fighting for their fundamental human rights.
As we approach the tenth anniversary of the UN World Conference in Beijing in 1995, where 180 governments agreed on a joint action platform in order to promote women’s rights, we find that those commitments have not been honoured.
Women still account for 70% of the poor in the world, girls in sub-Saharan Africa are six times more at risk than boys of infection with the HIV virus, four million women and children are victims of violence and sexual exploitation; at the same time, women only hold 15.2% of parliamentary seats.
Also, although the Council representatives are not here, we have asked the Council to request that the Member States submit a list of three candidate Commissioners who represent both sexes, in order to achieve a balanced composition of the new Commission from the gender point of view.
Speaking as the rapporteur on the Daphne programme, I would describe the situation facing us today as the tip of an iceberg; I refer to the trial of Marc Dutroux, a case that we can expect to disclose a veritable morass of violence against women and children.
This second stage, running from 2004 to 2008, is accompanied by a substantial increase in resources, and I have to remind you that we now have EUR&#160;10 million per annum as against EUR&#160;5 million per annum in the first stage.
Although this is still a mere drop in the ocean, doubling the annual budget in this way is urgently necessary, as Daphne I was able to fund only 13% of the good projects.
What is now Amendment No 5 is a form of words to which the Council can agree, and I hope that we will soon have an agreement on this.
The draft report also includes a proposal to declare 2006 the European Year Against Violence, to inaugurate a wide-ranging public debate aimed at developing further initiatives to halt the advance of the deadly virus of violence.
I am able to mention only a few of them: there has been a dramatic increase in trafficking in women, and, according to the International Organisation for Migration, 500&#160;000 women have been smuggled into the European Union in order to be sexually exploited and forced into prostitution.
If we were to find a broad majority to support these amendments tomorrow, it would send a clear message to women – and not only to women, but also to organisations in Europe, that we are joining battle against violence, and that we will not stand idly by while gangs of criminals make billions.
It is therefore a privilege today to be able to present and discuss my own report on this issue.
We are well aware that professional life, family life and private life are all aspects of our lives but at the same time, they form three complementary lives.
Promoting equality between men and women is a key Community task, which entails the need to compensate for the disadvantages faced by women as regards conditions of access to and participation in the labour market, and the disadvantages faced by men as regards conditions for participation in family life.
On the one hand, the ageing of the population requires a greater influx of human resources into the labour market and access to this market must be equal for both men and women.
Making policies coherent above all requires a balance to be struck between these two issues.
Measures must, therefore, be in place to enable women to make this choice without their careers or their family and private lives suffering as a result.
The Lisbon conclusions state that the balanced participation of men and women in professional and family lives, which is in the interest of men as well as of women, is a key factor for progress in society, with maternity, paternity and children’s rights being extremely important social values that must be protected by society, by the Member States and by the European Community.
Genuine equality between women and men in both the public and private domains must be accepted by society as a prerequisite for democracy, a requirement for citizenship and as a guarantee for individual autonomy and freedom, which should be reflected in all EU policies.
The objectives of the Lisbon and Barcelona European Councils throw down major challenges to the European Union and call for innovative measures.
These are all ambitious measures that are much needed, because we must make progress in this field.
The rapporteur thanks these organisations of the three minorities for their support to women and for the good cooperation which she had while drafting this report.
Poverty and social instability are central factors in the lives of migrant women.
Many of these women remain at home working as carers and cleaners, stuck in the traditional female role with the resulting social isolation and lack of access to basic social services, and marginalised in the process of upward social mobility, which creates a chain reaction of social exclusion.
Life expectancy is 13 and 17 years shorter for Roma men and women respectively than for the rest of the population.
Certainly the progress we have made towards gender equality in the European Union and also our solidarity with women around the world in all countries, remembering in particular those living in conflict and poverty whose rights are violated daily.
The European Union is on the eve of an historic enlargement and we are about to become a Union of 450 million people, more than half of whom are women and girls.
On the other hand, it is true that we have made considerable progress in the last 50 years, with the European Parliament being a key player.
We must do everything in our power to ensure a balanced representation of women in the next European Parliament.
Gender equality goes hand in hand with democracy at all levels.
Women's rights are human rights.
Good governance means sharing the power to make decisions in politics, economic and social life, public administration and in the home.
One recent example is the adoption in November 2003 of the proposal for a new directive on discrimination based on sex in the area of access to and supply of goods and services.
Another example is the first report on equality between women and men, requested by Heads of State and Government for the Spring Council, which was adopted by the Commission on 19 February.
This report sets out the challenges ahead, as well as policy orientations for the future, in particular in relation to a new enlarged Europe.
Moreover, it should be noted that in its latest spring report the Commission calls on Heads of State and Government to commit themselves to adopting the new anti-discrimination directive before March 2005 and this proves clearly that gender equality remains a top priority on the agendas of the Council and Commission.
This approach is included in the steering documents on the Structural Funds.
The Commission has also undertaken concrete initiatives to improve the implementation of gender mainstreaming in development and external relations policy.
Our aim is to establish a second phase of the Daphne programme for the period 2004-2008, building on the four years' experience gained during the implementation of the current Daphne I programme.
It is intended to prevent and combat all forms of violence against children, young people and women.
The text represents a well-balanced compromise that will enable the Community to resume the combat against violence for another five years with reasonable financial resources.
Finally, I turn to the Bastos report on reconciling professional, family and private lives.
The European Union tackles reconciliation from many different angles, using several instruments, such as legislation, the open method of coordination between Member States, and financing tools.
The Commission invited comments on the current text of the directive and the need to introduce other initiatives in five areas, including measures to achieve a better reconciliation of work and family life.
The Commission takes the view that a revision of the working-time directive could encourage the Member States to further improve reconciliation of working and family life.
The European employment strategy strongly encourages Member States and social partners to develop better means for reconciliation.
In April the Commission will organise a peer review in Sweden, a country where opportunities to combine family and work underpin strong female participation in the labour market and a relatively high birth rate.
Parental benefit is payable for 480 days with 60 days reserved for the father and mother respectively.
The social inclusion process also pays attention to promoting the reconciliation of work and family life in the light of particular problems faced by low-income families.
More recently the Commission published a communication on making work pay, which highlights the importance of appropriate reconciliation not only for women but also for men.
The Structural Funds – in particular the Social Fund, which supports the implementation of the employment strategy in Member States, and the Regional Fund – finance measures aimed at reconciling work in family life.
Reconciliation was also the priority theme of the gender equality programme in 2002.
Solutions for better reconciliation of work and family life do not lie in one specific measure.
I very much welcome Parliament's support in strengthening our activities in this field and making full and better use of the existing instruments.
This integrated approach is reflected in European anti-discrimination legislation and programmes.
The Commission shares the concerns expressed by the honourable Member in her report with regard to the delays in implementing these important directives in several Member States.
The Commission has already begun to take action to ensure that all women and men living in the EU can benefit from effective protection against discrimination.
The Commission has also emphasised on several occasions that the elimination of discrimination against the Roma people must go hand in hand with respect for the fundamental rights of Roma women and girls, including respect from within their own community.
Firstly, there are the wage differences between men and women.
It is therefore crucial that we distribute working time equally between men and women, that is to say six hours for the man and six hours for the woman.
The Daphne programme is aimed at preventing and combating all forms of violence against children, young people and women within the framework of a multidisciplinary approach and has contributed to creating greater awareness in the European Union of this extremely serious problem which regrettably affects the whole of society.
We are actually represented on three committees because the Committee on Women’s Rights is not considered important in this House, and it is there that we endeavour to muster all our strength, because it is there that we have to work for recognition and grapple with many difficult issues that are not always welcome in public debate.
The present situation is that the decision is always taken on the basis of the financial situation, and this generally works out better for men.
Enlargement to include the ten East and Central European countries on 1 May is of historic importance.
At the same time, I hope that, in connection with the appointment of the forthcoming Commission, the Member States will comply with the proposal from the Convention to the effect that all the Member States must nominate three candidates for the Commission, with representatives from both sexes.
Women play a crucial role in modern, developed democracies.
If we are to create a strong and competitive Europe, there is a need for women to participate as much as men in the labour market and, it should be noted, with equal wages and the same conditions of employment.
Finally, I wish to express solidarity with all those women around the world who do not enjoy basic human rights and who are victims of persecution, violence, trafficking in human beings and all other forms of threat, discrimination and assault.
We in the ELDR Group shall continue to work towards improving conditions for these women. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there is no lack of good ideas, either new or old, when it comes to combating discrimination against women.
I then heard that the number of people brought into the EU Member States for the purposes of sexual exploitation has now increased from 500&#160;000 to 800&#160;000.
I think that the joint 1999 campaign was a good starting point before the turn of the millennium.
One of our ministers, Laurette Onckelinckx, subsequently stated that in Belgium, 70 women are killed by their partners every year.
Equal opportunities also mean that women should have opportunities for education, but also that they should be able to apply their education in their professional lives.
I have doubts as to whether such a definition would have any legal value and I do not believe that we should confuse new types of unions and personal relations and their legal status with the concept of the family, a sociological concept that is both accepted in anthropological terms and also deeply rooted in our culture.
This is what the exclusive focus of our concern as regards this report should be.
Right across Europe, there are interesting models, such as the use of vouchers in payment for services, which the French have pioneered and which also creates jobs, or, to take another example, the introduction of child allowances in my own country of Austria, the thinking behind which is to try to make freedom of choice a reality for women. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Valenciano report is about the situation of women from minority groups in the European Union, with special attention being paid to disabled women, female migrants and Roma women.
This is also a live issue in my own country, the Netherlands, where, at present, there is an important ongoing discussion about the integration of migrants.
I am pleased that the topic is on our agenda, especially since today is International Women's Day.
The report goes about this in the right way, certainly as regards the deprivation caused by discrimination, the discriminating effect of measures in the areas of education and training, employment, participation in social life and protection against violence and sexual abuse.
Paragraph 16 is crucial to our group.
In a few days and in a few minutes, however, we are going to vote on yet another report that argues in favour of perpetuating discrimination between the sexes.
I, for one, can do no other than deplore this; I wish people would stop saying one thing and doing something different in practice. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I wish to begin by welcoming the Commissioner to her new and important task.
In France, approximately 25&#160;000 women are raped each year.
I am not a moralist, but there is a point beyond which only disgust can be felt faced with the wave of pornography sweeping into our homes, onto the Internet, into newspapers and advertisements and into hotels.
The Lisbon process is certainly needed to strengthen women’s situation in the labour market.
If, however, Europe is to become a decent continent, a halt must be called to this odious trade.
On 1 May, the bells of freedom must ring in Europe, not those of female slavery. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on this 8&#160;March, I should like to speak about the reports and oral questions tabled by the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities and to make some general remarks about the legislative period that we have just completed.
They say that Europe is unravelling women’s rights and that Europe does nothing to help women.
I do not wish to spend my time reopening old wounds; what I would like to know is why people do not see, hear or know what goes on here, as I feel that, at a stroke, we could establish a better link between what we do and what goes on in practice.
A transversal group of Commissioners has been set up, but can this group be more proactive?
The Commission itself has made strenuous efforts with regard to what happens in our respective countries, and certainly in France.
To my mind, the implementation of Article&#160;13 is severely weakened, which causes me great concern. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the aim of the report on which we are about to vote is to strengthen legislation governing the situation of women in the EU.
In actual fact, whereas the concept of reconciling family and professional life has been around at European level for some time, this has not always been the case in practice, especially among companies, who often disregard this issue.
Although progress has been made over the past few years, social inequalities between men and women remain extremely persistent.
The ageing of the population means that the economic basis is vulnerable.
Women still endure violence within the family, despite the programmes and legislation in force.
The attempt on 3&#160;March in the Assembly of the Republic to amend the law was rejected by members who make up the current right-leaning government majority, upholding a situation that is an embarrassment to Portugal and which primarily penalises less well-off women who cannot make use of the safe health services of our neighbouring country.
Consequently, despite the fact that this Parliament has voted in favour of important resolutions aimed at promoting women’s rights, most decisions are ignored by the Member States due to the lack of political will to implement the measures that are adopted.
The family is the smallest unit in the state.
It is, however, an unfortunate fact that our families are in crisis.
It must be acknowledged as work of value to society and there must no longer be discrimination against it.
Those are just a few things that need adjusting, but many small cogs need to move if there is to be a successful balance and harmony between work and family life for both men and women. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I am a feminist.
For me, feminism is about seeing and acknowledging the fact that women often have a subordinate role in society and being prepared to do something about this.
In Europe, what the EU does to make society more equal is very important.
There are two main reasons for this.
Equal opportunities for women and men are one such signal that must be sent out from ourselves to all actors in society. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this House’s celebration of International Women’s Day should not be a burdensome duty.
I would have preferred us to adopt – much more frequently in the course of a year, rather than just on this day – reports on the Commission’s legislative initiatives, rather than own-initiative reports on topics such as the situation of women who belong to minorities or the reconciliation of professional, family and private life, which, interesting though they may be, do regrettably little to get us further forward in practical terms.
Despite the solemnity of numerous legal texts, such as Article 13 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, Articles 20 and 21 of the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights, and various texts in our respective constitutions, the truth is that discrimination against women continues to be a reality.
And this cultural change must be extended to all social groups, so that equal opportunities are real and not just symbolic, only existing on paper. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that was a very good debate, making clear both the successes and shortcomings of the EU’s work on gender equality.
It was about very practical problems and challenges along the lines of equal wages for the same work, child care and care of the elderly and tasks that should be divided more equally between husbands and wives if society is to function, as well as about a number of other problems that, of course, affect both men and women, but above all women, in today’s society.
There is now a kind of trade in sexual slavery in Europe and the rest of the world.
Its tenth anniversary, which is almost upon us, cannot fail to be an occasion for drawing up a review of what has become of the ambitious Programme of Action, which the considerable number of 179 states voted to adopt.
It chose as its primary objectives the eradication of poverty, sustainable economic growth, educational opportunities for all population groups, especially for girls and women, gender equality and equal rights for men and women, protection, support and encouragement for the family, facilitation of general access to reproductive health, family planning and sexual health services, and a reduction in infant, child and maternal mortality rates.
The Cairo Action Programme placed the right – and I emphasise the right – to reproductive health and family planning at the heart of a new understanding of population policy, and so it is on this that my report focuses.
Every minute, though, ten people are infected with the HIV virus, half of them being under 24 years of age.
To put it another way, the risk of dying during pregnancy or as a result of it is 150 times greater for women south of the Sahara than it is for women in Europe.
Recently too, the Commission on Population and Development of the United Nations Economic and Social Council, ECOSOC, has also come to the conclusion, looking back at Cairo, that population and reproductive health are highly important issues that must therefore form part of development programmes and strategies to combat poverty, and that this would be the only way to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
That is in line with the conclusions in my report, which are addressed to the Commission, for European development cooperation, too, must actively help every couple and every individual to avail themselves of the fundamental right to good health and the free exercise of their own responsibility in determining the number of children they will have and the age at which they will have them.
For over 90 years, the International Women’s Day has been a day of political campaigning for women’s rights.
International Women’s Day must make us more aware of the need for international solidarity.
The message of my report on Cairo ten years on to the women of the South is that their European sisters are standing alongside them.
The global community agreed on the importance of reproductive rights and advancing gender equality and on the importance of all women and men being able to access comprehensive health services.
I note in particular that development aid funds for improved reproductive health services are not increasing sufficiently, that the HIV/AIDS pandemic is devastating social and economic structures and that the global political climate is hampering progress in reproductive health.
The need for universal access is even more urgent now than in 1994, given the dramatic increase in the numbers of people infected and affected by HIV and AIDS.
Maternal mortality also remains alarmingly high in too many countries, with more than half a million women worldwide dying prematurely each year owing to pregnancy-related causes.
As regards our support for the implementation of the Cairo Programme of Action, the European Community provided approximately EUR 655 million in direct support to these activities between 1994 and 2001.
Applying pro rata shares to all health-related support, including humanitarian assistance, the total European Community support to these activities over this period was about EUR 1.42 billion, or just over 12% of total international donor support to the Cairo activities.
Furthermore, we are supporting research into HIV/AIDS through the European and developing countries' clinical trials partnership programme, with an initial allocation of EUR 200 million.
We must not forget that what we had before Cairo, in 1994, was management and control of the population; since then, we have had the concept of birth control and control of our own bodies, which is substantially different.
In view of these three concerns, what I propose – and have proposed to the Commission – is a framework agreement.
If this balance is not maintained and if public space – in other words, universal access to care and to birth control resources – is not guaranteed, then we will be in even deeper trouble.
The Cairo Action Programme has pursued important objectives as regards development policy.
These are objectives that should, if achieved, improve living conditions in developing countries.
As shadow rapporteur for our group, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I do not believe that the urgent issues that we consider to be equally important have been dealt with adequately.
In my opinion, this report&#160;–&#160;which, I remind you, was adopted with 11 votes in favour and seven against in committee&#160;–&#160;needs to be reconsidered and must, above all, be brought back in line with what was established at the aforementioned Conference.
Furthermore, I hope, as was strongly suggested by our group, that paragraphs 6, 10, 11, 17, 23 and 26 might be rewritten so that they are more balanced.
There is no doubt that sovereignty must be respected in this sensitive area, as must the ethics of each country, especially in such sensitive issues such as reproductive health and rights concerning reproduction.
Every minute, 100 abortions are carried out, almost half of them by people with no medical training.
Every year, two million girls between the ages of five and fifteen are introduced into the commercial sex market and to a modern form of slavery without protection of a preventative nature.
Girls and women are still exposed to genital mutilation in many countries, something that is unacceptable.
One woman in three has been exposed to violence, according to a report recently published by Amnesty.
In Afghanistan, half of all deaths among women aged between 15 and 50 are pregnancy-related.
In doing so, the EU must make sexual and reproductive health a part of development policy and, of course, demand that the recipient countries ban genital mutilation. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, rapporteur, I have asked for the floor on behalf of my group to make three short observations.
This is basically a report on sexual and reproductive health, which does not address other important issues raised at the Cairo International Conference.
This is, therefore, simply another report on sexual and reproductive health.
I urge everybody to adopt this report so that the EU can send a strong signal of commitment to the ICPD. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I only have one minute.
Furthermore, I would like our admiration for the Arab and African women to be recorded in at least part of the report.
These women are fighting for their rights in their countries, in much more difficult conditions than here, as you can imagine.
I would like this Parliament to give them a sign of its great support and extremely high regard for them. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, in 1994, ten years ago, the International Conference for Population and Development was held in Cairo, where a wide spectrum of population and development objectives were identified.
Basic health care and reproductive health care still require major investments.
The report is far too much focused on the albeit very important and very urgent topic of reproductive health, but it is unfortunate that no attention has been given to other important topics which were explicitly addressed in Cairo, including sustainable development, research, education, particularly for women and girls, the role of the extended family and the combating of violence against women.
The report also overlooks the agreement that was made in Cairo that every country, as a sovereign power, is responsible for the implementation of the recommendations, consistent with national legislation and development priorities.
First, I hope the House will reject the amendments, tabled by some PPE-DE colleagues, to delete all the references to reproductive health rights.
Not one PPE-DE speaker has explained what the objection is to the idea of people having sexual and reproductive health rights.
Since today is International Women's Day, this would be a good message to send, as this is a problem we can do something about. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
A permanent residence permit will be automatically introduced after five years and protection against expulsion will in general also be stepped up, especially in the case of long-term residents.
The directive will replace nine directives and amend a regulation.
This means that, from now on, it will be a type of single text identifying what rights European citizens have, and will have, to move and reside within the territory of the European Union.
I remind you that, currently, registered partnerships between same sex and different sex partners are only possible in the Netherlands and in Belgium, countries where civil marriage for homosexual partners exists.
In countries where there is no specific legislation for registered partnerships, Article 3 of the directive will apply.
For the first time in a Community legislative text of a binding nature, the rights of unmarried couples are recognised even if, and I remind you of this, it is being done in line with national legislation.
As regards direct descendents, the only direct descendents deemed family members within the meaning of the directive are those who are under the age of 21 or are dependents.
I regret the fact that, on this point, there has been no significant progress in relation to the current legislation.
The Commission considers that the common position has achieved the three objectives contained in its original proposal, which were: codification, citizenship and making conditions for residency more flexible.
The first aim was that of codifying the complex body of legislation that exists today.
Secondly, the text of the common position should be seen as forming part of the legal and political framework created by citizenship of the European Union, which enables us to adopt a new approach to the exercise of citizens’ rights and to create a single system of free movement.
In the Commission’s opinion, this has also been achieved by removing the obligation, for EU citizens, to obtain a residency permit, which has been replaced by simply registering with the local residency authority; through introducing a right of permanent residency that would no longer be subject to any conditions after five years, or continuous residency in the reception Member State; and finally, through more clearly defining the status of family members and by enhancing their rights, not least as regards those family members that are not nationals of any Member State.
I feel sure that the new provisions of the directive will have a considerable positive impact on the lives of millions of Union citizens currently residing in another country of the European Union and of many other citizens who will in future use the right to freedom of movement.
I have also read with interest the definitions of extended family, family and partnership, descriptions that are, in my view, very formal.
In my view, this should simply be possible.
One of the most important barriers to mobility is constituted by the limited opportunities that exist for people to take their families with them to other EU countries.
It will also entitle people to reside permanently in such countries after five years and reduce the opportunities for devising derogations in relation to people from other EU countries.
We have most certainly achieved more than we could expect to achieve in a new Parliament representing an EU of 25 Member States, many of which have a far more restrictive definition of ‘family’.
On behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I shall therefore recommend that we vote in favour of the proposal in its present form. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I too would like to extend my thanks to the rapporteur for what was an extremely difficult job.
If we had more time we might have been willing to have a bigger fight with the Council over some of the amendments.
While it is true that this is a step forward in terms of codification and gives greater clarity to citizens, the approach seems somewhat begrudging: the common position seems to grant a right with one hand, only to add an enormous set of qualifications to that right with the other.
Previous speakers have been right about the climate in which this debate has taken place.
The social security systems of Member States certainly recognise different sorts of stable relationships – stable units.
This right is also enshrined in the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights.
It encompasses many of the amendments tabled by the European Parliament at first reading and is generally well balanced.
In countries where registered partnerships are recognised by the national legal system, citizens of other countries who are in the same form of partnership must be recognised.
In addition, it has become clear that relationships constitute a problem as regards free movement within the EU, and that countries can no longer ignore this fact.
In this case, in view of the discussions in the Council and the current political context, I think that we have extracted the best we could have achieved for EU citizens.
Lastly, as regards enlargement, I do not wish to join in the debate on the restrictive measures that are being adopted.
Having said that, these measures were taken, if I have understood correctly, on the basis of the treaties of accession, which provide for an initial period of two years, during which derogations from the general rules on access to the job market are permitted.
This Directive is, therefore, most importantly, one that is aimed at ensuring freedom of movement for all citizens of the twenty-five Member-States beyond this transitional period.
That is perfectly acceptable, and I also have a reservation; but the deadline for amendments for this sitting expired this evening at 7 p.m.
The debate is closed.
The Commission proposal for a framework decision forms part of an overall strategy to fight drugs, based on a balanced approach between measures for reducing supply and demand and action against trafficking.
Adopting this Council proposal for a framework decision, would clearly demonstrate the European Union’s will to combat drug trafficking and this is important.
I should like to say to her that what she is aiming at in her amendment in connection with the scope – large-scale international drug trafficking on the one hand and personal consumption on the other – is already implicit in the text.
Our thoughts on the matter are very clear, and so are those of the Council.
However, it is a very complex area.
However, tonight we should recognise that this report – however difficult it has been – is just one piece in a very complex jigsaw in terms of countering drug trafficking and how we deal with those responsible in the future.
Of course we must have freedom of movement, but it must not be used for drugs and crime. &#160;&#160; Madam President, there are many of us in the European Parliament who have waited a long time to see practical crime prevention measures in connection with the drugs trade.
The facts are inescapable.
Each year, more people die as a result of heroin addiction in Ireland than die in car accidents.
The opium trade is now said to provide work for 7% of the Afghan population.
The Netherlands has proved uncooperative not only in Parliament, but also within the Council.
It is production and can thus fall under this decision, since there is no type of guarantee that the aim is to combat trafficking, which is already amply punished in all of our laws.
Parliament is being consulted a second time, now that the Council has finally reached agreement, following two years of negotiations.
I agree with this opinion; the fact that an agreement has been concluded on this matter is useful in itself.
I know that my own country, Portugal, welcomes this draft framework decision, which does not raise specific difficulties as regards our own legal system.
The debate is closed.
The Agency’s main tasks are to coordinate operational cooperation between Member States, to assist Member States in training their border guards, to undertake risk assessments, to monitor progress of research in the field of the control and surveillance of external borders, to provide enhanced operational and technical assistance to Member States that need it and to coordinate operational cooperation between Member States in removing third-country nationals.
It will have a staff of thirty and a budget, initially, of EUR&#160;six&#160;million in 2005 and EUR&#160;ten&#160;million in 2006.
The Agency will have a Management Board which would, under the Commission proposal, consist of twelve representatives of the Member States, appointed by the Council and two representatives of the Commission.
Denmark can participate, in line with the conditions set out in the protocol annexed to the Treaty.
The Council has also added a new task, which is to facilitate operational cooperation between Member States and third countries.
Whereas Austria, Germany and the Benelux states will soon have no EU external border of their own to defend, Italy alone has 7&#160;600 km of maritime frontier to police, half of it in the Adriatic and the southern Mediterranean.
Europe must not leave either Italy or the new Member States in Central and Eastern Europe to perform this task alone, and it must also establish common standards.
We want the Agency to have close ties to the Commission, for who, after all, is supposed to monitor the Agency if the Commission has no responsibility for it?
It now has a new document as a basis for discussion, to which we have still not, officially, had access and about which you, Commissioner, have had nothing to say this evening; nor, indeed, did your official tell the committee anything about it.
The new proposal envisages all the Member States being represented on the Management Board; having 25 board members for 27 staff members makes Europe look ridiculous.
A common policy must be established for controlling the current and future external borders, which will require common rules to be applied and common structures to be created, in order to ensure the integrated management of these borders.
This, as a matter of fact, is precisely what the European Parliament had asked for on previous occasions.
The Council’s intransigence is made all the more serious by the fact that it affects the protection of human rights.
We believe that the new agency’s responsibilities must not include the expulsion of people from third countries living illegally in Member States.
Given that we have not approached this analysis collectively, I feel that the measures that we are going to take will partly be in vain. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the proposal for a regulation contains some very crucial points for strengthening control at the external borders.
The establishment of the common border agency, coordination between border authorities, with joint training involved, and the preparation of common risk analyses and of common projects for exploiting the new technological advances are all elements that will strengthen control at the external borders.
The agency should thoroughly investigate whether there is any need at all for such a supranational corps and only then undertake an investigation into the implementation strategy itself.
On behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I am able to say that we shall support his report in the vote. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I wanted to warmly thank the rapporteur for his statement, which we in this House regard as a very good one, just as his criticisms are, in the final analysis, justified.
It is quite explicitly not to have any legislative powers, and the Member States are to retain responsibility for guarding the external borders.
We are right behind the rapporteur in making these critical observations. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report, because I believe this is an important opportunity to establish common control of the European Union's external borders.
I would remind him that the Commission took a very clear position in favour of the concept of a common unit to coordinate operational cooperation among Member States in the control and surveillance of external borders in its communication of May 2002.
In July 2002, the Member States started coordinating their cooperation in the area of the control and surveillance of external borders within the Council through the so-called Common Unit.
The Commission does not intend to present a modified proposal because despite sharing your concern – and your perplexity – it is quite clear that there is a unanimous will in the Council for there to be one member of the Management Board per Member State.
Nevertheless, at least on this point, Parliament agrees with the Council and the Commission is clearly isolated. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, this is a report which constitutes the final stage in an important procedure, a procedure which started with the report by my dear honourable friend Jo Leinen, a procedure which culminated during the Greek Presidency, when the Presidency and the Council, following an exchange of views with Parliament, finally adopted Regulation No 2003/2004, which substantially improves the statute and foundation of European political parties in the world of Europe.
From this point of view, the report which I am presenting to the House and calling on it to support is a system, a procedure which will guarantee European parties the resources with which they can fulfil their objectives.
The first important element – European political parties and their financing, by which we mean the provision of the resources they need – depends first and foremost on the Bureau of the European Parliament; in other words on the body within the European Parliament which is responsible for all matters do to with the smooth operation of the political forces which act and are connected with it.
One body is the Conference of Presidents of the political groups, which is the most political body within the European Parliament, and the other is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in other words the European parliamentary committee which is responsible for all matters to do with regulatory, constitutional and legal issues.
We have made a very big effort and I want to thank all the honourable Members from all the political parties both for their advice and for their support while this report was being discussed within the framework of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
However, my Group and I will be voting against the report if Amendments Nos 6 and 7 are not adopted.
This is all the more objectionable when the rule is that parties seeking funding need only be heard on some issues rather than on all issues that come before the Bureau.
I hope these amendments will be accepted, because if they are not we will certainly vote against the report.
All the better that they should now become voluntary associations of like-minded citizens collaborating right across this great continent.
Therefore I call upon the House to accept this report only if at least Amendments Nos 6 and 7 are adopted. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, the Regulation governing the statute and the financing of political parties at European level contains a number of provisions that are unacceptable from a democratic point of view.
For example, the smaller parties that are not active in at least a quarter of the Member States, but are represented in the European Parliament, are excluded in advance.
I see today as an important day for democracy, and an important day for Europe.
I say that as one who represents the political group that has, for longer than anyone else, had a European party at the European level and was also the first to actually implement in practice the separation between the work of the political groups and that of the political parties.
National parties can indeed stand in the elections to the European Parliament; they are funded in accordance with national legislation on the funding of political parties, and it would be wrong if national parties, parties limited to one nation, were also to form a party under the European Statute on Political Parties.
The European Statute on Political Parties is a significant step in that direction. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
The legal base for the principle involved has been in the Treaties since the Treaty of Maastricht, signed by all our Member States, ratified by all national parliaments.
Last year, the legislation finally came through on that basis, in accordance with the will of all our Member States and of all our national parliaments.
This, then, is the final step in the edifice: the implementing measures internal to this House to enable us to apply the legislation that was adopted last year – legislation founded on a very broad consensus, as I have just indicated.
I am therefore sad to see that there are some Members on the far right of this House, and a few British Conservatives&#160;– going against the view of the Group that they profess to belong to –– who are challenging the legislation in the Court of Justice.
Their comments are sometimes surprising; they are objecting for instance to the fact that funding can be cut off for parties that do not respect the principles on which the European Union is founded, namely –– and this is laid down in the legislation –– the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law.
I strongly agree that the Bureau should decide it; but when the Bureau sits to decide these matters, it should have among it representatives of other parties.
That is what I said and I think that is correct. &#160;&#160; Thank you for your comment. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I am very pleased to say that all three UKIP MEPs have joined together with 20 other Members of this House.
There are several reasons for doing so, but the key reason is one of simple principle: I do not think there is any evidence that suggests that the voters in my country or in any other country are happy for their money directly to finance political parties at a European level.
The Regulation of 4 November 2003, governing the statute and financing of political parties at European level, effectively violates a number of principles that are dear to all of us.
It violates equal treatment, because of all the parties active at European level, only those represented in at least a quarter of Member States are allowed, which is wholly arbitrary.
The statute of European political parties, Madam President, is in line with the statute for Members of the European Parliament, which we adopted recently and which the Member States ultimately decided to throw out.
I hope, therefore, that the Court of Justice will do likewise to the statute and financing of European political parties. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I understand that the report could do no other than refer to the definition of the political party at European level, established, as has just been said, in Regulation No&#160;2004/2003.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.(1) &#160;&#160; I declare the annual session 2003-2004 of the European Parliament closed.
