Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 3 February 2000.
Madam President, since these matters are currently being considered by the Quaestors, may I ask you to use your influence both to ensure that the Register of Interests is brought up to date and modified to cover instances of this kind and, above all, to ensure that the Register is not only available for inspection by this House, but is also published on the Internet?
Thank you, Mr Davies.
I would urge Members to sign up to the commitment made today at the Winning Hearts Conference that every child born in the new millennium has the right to live until the age of at least 65 without suffering from avoidable cardiovascular disease.
I would welcome an assurance from you that you will order an investigation to ensure that the two Members who were named in this particular BBC interview are not running their companies from this Parliament or from parliamentary offices, because that would be a very serious matter indeed.
Thank you, Mr Murphy.
Thank you, Mr Wurtz.
Agenda The next item is the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents, pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
Is there anyone who wishes to speak on behalf of these groups in favour of this proposal?
I think that we, as a Parliament, even now have to assume our responsibility and speak out on the situation in Cambodia. (Parliament gave its assent) President.
Madam President, it is remarkable that the European Parliament has not yet adopted a position on the possible release of Mr Pinochet, despite the fact that international arrest warrants have already been issued.
Madam President, this matter is far too serious to be dealt with by means of an urgent procedure at this time.
The first is that this matter is sub judice in several European countries, and I would like to remind Members that there is still no European judicial area nor a European legal system.
We believe that justice should be done in this case, but this is not the most appropriate procedure. (Parliament rejected the proposal) President.
We consider the matter to be important enough for the Commission to react swiftly to this situation, and I think that Parliament must make its position clear and vote on a resolution on the subject. (Parliament gave its assent) President.
Madam President, with apologies to my friend, Enrique Barón Crespo, I should like to speak against this proposal.
Deciding upon future policy lines, with a view to a new directive, rather hastily, without having had time to consult the trade unions or have discussions with all the social partners, I feel, runs counter to the spirit we wish to inject into the debate on matters which directly involve the social operators.
Madam President, this afternoon, in this Chamber, reference was made to a series of reports on the BBC Today programme this morning, which claimed that certain of my colleagues were running personal lobbying companies or somehow misusing their position as Members of this House.
Upon referral to committee, we examined over a hundred amendments and, so far, 17 amendments, some of which have already been presented in committee, have once again been tabled.
The INTERREG initiative, created in 1990, is built upon the wish to make the regions of Europe ready for a 'Europe without frontiers' in the context of establishing the great single market.
At the time of the reform of the Structural Funds in 1994 and 1996, the INTERREG CIP has incorporated new strands contributing to the development of trans-European transport and energy distribution networks.
These programmes promoted cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation within the European Union by encouraging balanced development of the Community area.
The INTERREG III programme, for which we have before us today the guidelines issued by the European Commission, pursuant to the terms of European Community Regulation No 1260 de 1999 laying down general provisions on the Structural Funds, continues these measures.
The European Commission draws up the list of eligible regions for strand A and strand B.
The Commission draws up a list of priority areas and eligible measures which for strand A is not comprehensive, but is comprehensive for strand B.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the conference on rural development held in Cork from 7 to 9 November 1996 set rural development as one of the European Union' s priorities since it is essential in order to maintain the existence and continued development of agriculture, to provide farmers with an environment containing the necessary infrastructure and services, and to ensure greater respect for the environment and a better quality of life, diversification and job creation.
An integrated development policy for all rural areas in the European Union is therefore needed, consisting of the following elements: an integrated, multi-sectoral approach, simplification of administrative procedures, improvement of the partnership between European institutions and national and local actors and protection of the environment.
The LEADER Community initiative was launched in 1991 to promote a new bottom-up approach to rural development and to diversify measures by adapting them to local needs.
LEADER I applied to the rural areas covered by Structural Fund Objectives 1 and 5b, and 217 local action groups participated in it, with financing of EUR 1 155 million.
For the 2000-2006 period provision has been made, unfortunately, only for a total contribution of EUR 2 020 million, and an indicative allocation for each Member State has been set.
It is an important Community initiative which, together with the three other initiatives, URBAN, LEADER and INTERREG, is financed out of the Structural Funds.
This has meant a reduction in the number of amendments - from over 100 in committee to 22 for the plenary - which has also created numerous opportunities for compromises.
Madam President, it is in itself an achievement that we are having this debate on the new URBAN Community initiative and it is an achievement that I am here tonight because Air France cancelled my flight at 2.10 p.m.
Yet we as politicians knew that there was a groundswell of support for continuing this initiative into the year 2000.
For example, in my own region, in Manchester, the URBAN Community initiative has been a tremendous success.
The Millennium Youth Park project is helping to get young people re-engaged in regenerating their own community and in addition to support for small businesses and social policy we are beginning to see a turnaround of a very deprived urban community.
All these complex problems undermine the quality of life for our urban residents, yet we have the potential in these areas to create growth and prosperity.
It is better to have quality projects with the active participation of community groups than to have projects delivered on time but without local participation.
The Commission must of course provide full disclosure and transparency concerning the selection criteria used for the new urban initiatives but it must also disclose the consultancy networks which are being used to deliver the exchange of good practice.
As we have heard, the objective of URBAN is the promotion of innovative strategies to promote economic and social regeneration in urban areas, bearing in mind that 80% of the population of Europe lives in cities.
However, we must remember that, in addition to URBAN, a number of other Community instruments are also available in the social sector: innovative actions under Article 6 of the ESF regulation, pilot projects, particularly the new preparatory action for local commitment to employment that has just been introduced by the European Parliament under the 2000 budget and the EQUAL and INTERREG initiatives and mainstream ESF activities.
Not only is this coordination essential but, as we stated in our opinion, exchanges and the dissemination of expertise and good practice must also be essential.
Mr President, our committee welcomed the priorities proposed by the Commission for the URBAN programme of better integration of local communities and ethnic minorities and improved security and crime prevention.
We would particularly like to stress that there must be balanced representation between men and women in all of these bodies.
We would also like to stress that the main objective is the promotion of strategies for sustainable development, whose positive effects would extend to a broader geographical area than the local community itself, and we therefore feel it is appropriate for the projects to be integrated into the development programmes, included in Objectives 1 and 2, and into the regional planning of the regions and countries in which they are located.
The Committee believes that projects financed under action 1 should place value on the potential of endogenous development, in particular based on local traditions, techniques and practices, on specific production and on the management of sustainable energy.
We believe it is necessary to coordinate the development objectives and management mechanisms of actions 2 and 3, financed by LEADER, with those of other actions financed by other Community programmes relating to interregional and international cooperation and partnership, such as INTERREG, SAPAR, PHARE, TACIS and MEDA, in the same areas. . (IT) Madam President, I shall speak for two minutes on behalf of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, and for the other two minutes on behalf of the socialist group that I represent within the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on the EQUAL report.
We have put a lot of time into coming up with a definition of 'asylum-seeker' because it is difficult from a legal point of view, but I think that we have now achieved a compromise with the rapporteur - at least I hope we have - and the silence on the report on asylum-seekers, which Parliament is going to put to the vote must be seen as Parliament supporting the Commission' s position.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism adopted this opinion on the EQUAL report at its concluding discussion with no votes against and one abstention.
The committee based its conclusions on these critical comments.
Dovetailing the activities under the Community initiative with the European employment initiatives is an essential requirement and a crucial prerequisite for attaining the objectives of the EQUAL programme.
We fully support the innovative approach towards setting up development partnerships and organising the exchange of experience at European level as an integral part of the EQUAL programme.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned today that the first URBAN initiative was an unqualified success.
To increase the effectiveness of individual measures the number of projects for URBAN II has been limited to 50.
In any case it is necessary to ensure that in small Member States in particular it is not only areas of large cities which are again in receipt of the support.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, who have managed to produce excellent reports in just a short time.
The reports are late, and, in addition, they were very hastily discussed by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
Our group would once again like to raise the issue of the practical monitoring of funds and emphasise the importance of better coordination of the INTERREG, TACIS, ISPA and PHARE programmes.
We here in Parliament are waiting for the Commission to give the committee a more detailed explanation of the issue as soon as possible.
It is of decisive importance to get local business, organisations and other players involved in the practical implementation of programmes.
I would like to mention here again the URBAN report, in which the rapporteur, in the explanatory statements, has dealt admirably with the issue of the minimum sum of EUR 500 per inhabitant as per the Commission' s guidelines.
Mr President, a third of EU money is invested in funds for all kinds of development causes.
In some cases, I get the impression that it is not about solidarity or alleviating the most desperate problems, but about propaganda and upholding vested interests in exchange for the European Union' s blessing.
After the planned accession of new Member States with their 100 million inhabitants, the prosperity level of which is at one third or two thirds of the average level of the current EU Member States, this squandering will generate even more protest.
A second point where we need to focus our attention is the possibility of nepotism and abuse of power within regional and local councils.
So, really, these bodies should already provide for a balance, and take into account the wishes of the union movement and environmental movement in the process.
Some areas within the European Union are economically very strong and heavily exceed the average income per capita.
The core aspects of this debate this evening relate to the operation of the EU initiative programmes, namely, the new INTERREG III initiative, EQUAL and the LEADER+ scheme.
This is why it is useful for the European Union to continue to support the Member States and, if necessary, give additional support under URBAN.
Over the next seven years, the Commission' s proposals concerning URBAN will entail a reduction in both the Community budget and the number of areas standing to benefit.
Consequently, we cannot support Amendment No 2 of the Greens, as borne out in the committee meeting.
I would like to finish off by making a general comment on INTERREG.
Hence our amendment in order to prevent contradictions between general policy and actual projects.
The preservation of this Community initiative in particular, in the form of a new version - LEADER+ - is therefore greatly to be welcomed.
It is important for there to be coordination between LEADER+ and the other support initiatives in the European Union, but coordination with other national support schemes is also just as important.
LEADER must now move into the implementation phase.
We must create joint, interregional and transnational management bodies, in which all local and regional authorities, as well as economic and social operators, play an active role.
During debates in committee, we have also pointed out the difficulties involved in coordinating INTERREG with other annual or biannual financial instruments, such as MEDA, TACIS or PHARE.
This Parliament' s motion for a resolution has been very attentive to these difficulties, making proposals capable of solving them to the Commission and setting reasonable deadlines for making the necessary changes.
Even in Member States and cities that are extremely wealthy we have large numbers of people living in ghettos, in situations where there are inadequate facilities, where schooling is very poor, where the physical infrastructure is under-developed and where drugs and other phenomena are rife.
It seems to me that in order for the European Union to demonstrate that it has a role in helping the citizens of the European Union it must give assistance to Member States to demonstrate that the Union works for these citizens and their families.
It is important that they use their initiative and their own local expertise in developing this initiative.
The development partnerships are a very clever idea, even though they are experimental.
I am glad to see that this was accepted into the report, but I cannot agree with Amendment No 9 because that amendment really is not expressed in simple language at all.
Although I am not in favour of those refugees who have been refused refugee status and threatened with repatriation, having access to EQUAL, I would support the possibility of access for all other asylum-seekers and refugees.
This does not happen all that often and it is gratifying, especially as the LEADER programmes have been key elements in the Union' s rural development policy.
It must be pointed out that these programmes have not only been instrumental in structuring regional planning, but have also been vital instruments for economic and social cohesion in often vulnerable areas such as, for example, areas experiencing depopulation.
So, the concept for LEADER+ should retain all the positive aspects of previous programmes.
A better solution would be, as indeed the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism suggests, strengthened coordination between LEADER+ and the Community cooperation and partnership programmes, such as INTERREG, PHARE, SAPARD or MEDA.
Mr President, I have a few very brief comments.
For example, adapting EQUAL to the objectives of employability and the flexibilisation of labour relations transforms this initiative into a new version of local employment contracts.
The INTERREG initiative must include eligible areas with special emphasis on border areas, islands and both mountain and non-mountain areas, such as the prefecture of Arta in Greece, whose omission from Annex I of the Commission' s communication is ill-considered.
The voluntary participation of people in development programmes is something that is not always fully appreciated.
Yet, through LEADER, there can be no doubting its effectiveness as an integral part of broader EU and national policy.
I should also like to give my considered support to the comments of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, particularly and primarily in deploring the failure to integrate the most remote regions into strand A of the programme or in commenting upon the lack of precision in the selection criteria for the implementation methods for strand III C and, finally, in requesting that Members of the European Parliament should be involved in the European Observatory for cross-border, transregional and interregional cooperation.
I should further like to express major reservations with regard to the exaggerated tendency which, in the Commission communication with reference to INTERREG III and III B, involves associating environmental protection exclusively with the development of Natura 2000, which I think is often an excessively abstract means of safeguarding ecosystems, from which users are in danger of being excluded or severely restricted.
It would be even better if they were involved to a greater extent in the processes of framing and implementing the programmes concerned, otherwise it will be difficult to determine and defend their role in relation to the local and national authorities and even the citizens.
Only, the number of people affected by these programmes has not really dropped.
This is why it is so hard to strike a balance, not only between the different countries or the different components, but especially between the different groups listed in the programme, and in fact this is what has preoccupied us to date.
Although a few other groups have been mentioned, it is the Member States, in particular, which are on the lookout.
As far as the Commission is concerned, I hope it will be able to join in the compromise that is being concluded here in this Parliament, mainly with a view to reaching a balance.
The position of Parliament in this whole procedure is somewhat unclear.
So far, some Balkan countries have received aid from the PHARE and Obnova programmes, while others have not.
During the new programme period, in view of enlargement and bearing in mind that funding has been provided for from new financial instruments and regulations, such as ISPA and Sapard, it is considered absolutely essential to coordinate the funding of all three strands of INTERREG with other financial aid to third countries.
Accordingly, we welcome the related references in Chapter 7 of the European Commission' s proposed general guidelines for INTERREG.
The efforts to coordinate the planning and so make it more effective must extend to all the programmes equally, and I say that because in the MEDA programme during the last period some problems arose which have to be overcome, so that we can have equal treatment for all the third countries participating in that programme.
Only if the population can stay in the countryside will the quality of life in the countryside also be permanently assured.
Mr President, during the last EU Financial Perspective from 1994 to 1999, when there were 13 different initiatives in operation, the INTERREG II cross-border programme was an important initiative.
The INTERREG I programme between 1989 and 1993 and the INTERREG II programme between 1994 and 1999 have proved an absolute success in terms of bridging closer social and economic development between bordering Member States.
Coming from the border counties in the north-west of Ireland, I have seen over the years the important role which INTERREG I and II have played and I am delighted to welcome INTERREG III.
The Commission is allocating 67 million pounds towards the INTERREG III programme, which will be spent on continuing the development of cross-border economic projects between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
The European Union is the single largest contributor, with 80 million pounds to the International Fund for Ireland.
This is in line with ongoing discrimination, which ignores Article 158 of the Treaty on island regions with regard to cohesion policies.
This has given rise to the proposals we are making to at least extend the regions eligible to include the NUTS III Sicilian provinces which have a frontier with Malta and to include all the regions of the Adriatic which share a frontier with Balkan regions.
For a long time, probably a survival of our colonial heritage, our regions have fixed their attention on the European mainland, ignoring and even scorning their closest neighbours.
INTERREG appropriations may be used to make our regions into veritable European Union bridgeheads into these geographical areas, giving it worldwide scope.
Mr President, Commissioners, I greatly welcome the possibilities for increased trans-European cooperation under INTERREG, but my concern is that the proposal offers fewer opportunities in this respect for maritime than for other areas.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I shall confine my observations to Mr Decourrière' s report.
INTERREG must, therefore, be an instrument promoting territorial cohesion throughout the Union if we do not wish to see a two- or even three-speed European territory.
It is obvious to me that the regional and local authorities, and their representative bodies, the Committee of the Regions and, of course, the European Parliament should have been involved in the clearest way possible and at the earliest possible opportunity framing this programme.
Indeed, I am forced to observe that this was not the case when the Commission drew up its communication, published on 13 October last year.
The most remote regions, particularly the four French overseas departments, must be able to coordinate INTERREG III and the EDF in order to fund, in turn, cooperation projects with their ACP neighbours in their respective geographical areas.
It is essential for these regions to be able to benefit fully from INTERREG III, just like all the other regions in the Union, especially now that the REGIS programme dedicated to such isolated regions has been dropped.
Mr President, my starting point is the EQUAL report and equality between men and women, although I must admit that it is sometimes hard to talk about this issue, which has a feeling of déjà vu about it when you are my age, in any case.
That is why, where the good LEADER projects are concerned, we need to ensure that those which have proved to be outstanding are not suddenly discontinued; instead the ideas which have proved to be worthwhile need at some stage to be transferred into the standard programmes as a reliable, positive component of our support to rural areas.
There should be no attempt to have one or other organisation, which is just being formed with a view to contributing a new idea and is not yet so well known, pushed a little on to the sidelines, say because of official local or regional policy.
My group will be supporting Amendment No. 22.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, LEADER I was an outright success due, in particular, to the great flexibility of the administrative management between the Commission and the local operators.
I am pleased to see, however, that under LEADER+, new resources have been allocated to helping rural territories to develop their potential and to implement the objectives of local and sustainable development.
I feel it is important to put special emphasis on trying out new ways to raise the profile of the natural and cultural heritage and to strengthen the economic environment, in order to promote employment.
It is interesting to note that all rural areas may be eligible for LEADER II.
Nonetheless, if the opportunity for Member States to determine the areas, within the scope of this initiative, remains available, then the Commission will have to ensure a certain focusing of resources and prioritise projects in the less prosperous areas.
Mr President, as a Member from one of the outermost regions, I must point out that this is a very special afternoon as far as regional policy is concerned, because of the debate on two Community initiatives, URBAN and INTERREG.
I would like to remind you that these initiatives are aimed, firstly, in the case of URBAN, at improving the quality of life of the citizens who live in the poorer parts of various European cities, and, in the case of INTERREG, at facilitating cohesion and recognising the diversity and potential of the regions of the European Union, particularly by including the outermost regions in strands B and C.
It is a fact that we are debating this programme today because the European Parliament insisted that this initiative should be maintained.
The Commission proposed removing it and other initiatives, but Parliament' s proposal and the sensitivity of the Commission itself at the time led to the URBAN initiative being retained.
Today the programme is in place and therefore I believe we have achieved something important, that distinguishing mark of the European Union called the URBAN programme.
The urban dimension must be incorporated much more deeply in all the structural funds.
The amount of budget required by our cities - where 80% of the European population live and which increasingly represent both the best and the worst of what we have in Europe, I believe, clearly indicates that the European dimension should be taken into account and that this URBAN programme should not be used as an excuse not to analyse in detail, not to prioritise and, therefore, not to introduce an infinitely greater budgetary contribution into programmes which affect the cities, by means of European funds.
In welcoming the cross-sectoral approach embodied in the new EQUAL initiative, it is crucial that the programme addresses the distinct forms of discrimination which militate against disabled people in particular: physical barriers in the workplace affecting those with limited mobility, visual information systems which exclude blind workers, working systems which effectively close the door on people with learning difficulties or with mental health problems.
That is why this Parliament has put forward paragraphs 10 and 15 of the resolution, to ensure that Member States cannot ignore any one target group.
Because disabled people do not form one homogenous group - for example many deaf people see themselves as a linguistic minority denied respect for their own language and culture - it is necessary as stated in paragraph 9 to enable some partnerships to be defined which are specific to a particular disability or other group.
Finally, a word on INTERREG.
It really is quite nonsensical that partnerships set up in 1994 are being rolled over now to the exclusion of new inter-regional links.
It will therefore be necessary to increase the quality of the programmes because the EAGGF is supposed to be an effective financial instrument.
It is good that URBAN is to continue, as it has had good results at local level.
The majority of the population of Europe live in cities, and their problems are among the most pressing within the context of regional policy and very complex matters in themselves.
We always come back to the same basic problem in Europe: our economy does not support the individual sufficiently, nor is it sufficiently dynamic.
Mr President, with the implementation of INTERREG III, European cooperation policy is entering a new phase.
In the context of globalisation and cultural openness which characterise the current situation, the European Union needs instruments that will allow it to strengthen its links and communication channels with neighbouring regions, particularly in Eastern and Southern Europe.
By means of amendments adopted in committee, Parliament has tried to supplement the Commission' s work, by including new elements in the list of areas targeted for aid, and in particular external border areas and maritime border areas in Southern Europe.
As President Prodi too mentioned when outlining the strategic objectives for the period 2000-2005, boosting the Barcelona process is a priority for the Union, and the INTERREG III initiative will be able to make its contribution to the pursuit of this strategic objective.
The Commission cannot therefore be relieved of direct responsibility or the task of carrying out inspections under EQUAL either.
Mr President, I want to refer to the Commission proposals on the budget line to promote the CAP.
On 26 October 1999 the European Commission adopted a proposal to ensure that a legal basis is given to the budget line informing the public about the CAP.
This proposal will remove the current budget line B2-5122 and create a new budget heading B1-382.
Actions which promote understanding between young farmers and the EU and also create stronger links with EU candidate countries and the outside world are important.
Regarding information and training, in the past this budget line has been allocated for information, communication and training.
These people live in areas which should benefit from these projects.
If we have success in this threefold sense, I believe that these families, these people, these European citizens, will believe more in Europe, and this seems to me to be very important because, ultimately, the cities will increasingly come to play a leading role in European life.
The recently published 6th periodic report on the European regions demonstrates this clearly by revealing that the 25 most heavily agricultural regions in the European Union have the highest rate of unemployment, in addition to their traditional problems of an ageing population and desertification.
I am mindful of the fact that it was in fact the European Parliament which made the political decision and supported the continuation of this initiative for the regeneration of urban areas in difficulties, in favour of sustainable urban development, involving at the same time this integrated approach, which we value, to handle the economic, social and environmental aspects simultaneously.
Having mentioned the fundamental points of agreement between the Commission' s proposals and Parliament and, having stressed my great interest in hearing the various contributions, I should like to answer a few of the criticisms and a few of the suggestions which have been made, with apologies if I cannot attribute each of the questions to the speakers by name.
I have therefore asked my services to be willing to consider a reasonable increase in the number of towns eligible under the URBAN programme conditional upon certain guarantees, firstly on concentration - I am thinking particularly of the target areas which must have a minimum of 20 000 or, in exceptional cases, 10 000 inhabitants - and also upon the critical mass of funding: we must keep to EUR 500 per inhabitant so that the European Union action may be both effective and clear, and so that it does not resemble a sort of scattering of resources which would have no real impact either for citizens or for municipalities.
Third point: specific measures in favour of some social groups - some speakers mentioned them - women, but also immigrants and refugees, must be envisaged.
But, as for the future, since we must look ahead, I am extremely concerned to see how URBAN is going to be implemented in practical terms, and also to see what our experience will be and what lessons we can learn, because plainly these urban issues are going to be the focus of what may be, for future financial perspectives, a new European regional planning policy.
I am not forgetting, and we cannot forget, that 80% of the citizens of Europe today live in towns and that is why this URBAN instrument is extremely important.
You comment that these guidelines were adopted at too late a date, stressing, particularly your rapporteur, the risk that the previous programmes will be interrupted.
I note, however, that the Member States and the regions are already actively preparing the programmes for INTERREG III and indeed the guidance project was distributed over three months ago now.
I also note that eligibility for expenditure shall be accepted from the date that programmes are presented and I can confirm the possibility that they may be available retroactively back to 1 January, if the programme is presented before 30 April.
As to the second comment: regarding the non-comprehensive list of measures eligible under strand B, I wish to inform you, to confirm, that I have asked the Commission to accept the inclusion of other specific subjects, particularly in favour of small- and medium-sized businesses and of cultural heritage, in the list of schemes eligible under strand B and that therefore this list must no longer be considered as a comprehensive one.
As you requested, I have decided to remove all references to the use of a technical assistance office in the text until the outcome of the debate in progress within the Commission on the service outsourcing systems.
But, ladies and gentlemen, if we do remove every reference and any recourse to a TAO at a later date then this will have a consequence and that will be an increase in the number of officials' jobs needed to do this work, because somebody will have to do it and I cannot keep redeploying the same staff indefinitely, at a time when our duties are increasing with the pre-accession structural instrument (ISPA) and in order to ensure that, the Community appropriations for which I am responsible, often in partnership or on terms of coresponsibility with Member States, are monitored better, with discipline and transparency.
In addition to this one overture there is a second which we have already suggested to the Member States: greater financial flexibility between strand A and strand B.
Thanks to these two overtures, especially the first, I can say that the Commission is willing to examine the case of Italian regions and regions of third countries around the Adriatic in order to promote the most appropriate cooperation under INTERREG, and with other instruments too, as soon as they become available.
I have decided, in the end, that the most remote regions, to which I attach particular importance, will be given special priority in the context of the transnational strand of INTERREG, with a cooperation strategy which will aim at improving their links with their neighbours and other Member State regions.
All this should make it possible for us, apart from the Objective 1 appropriations and also with them, to confirm the role of 'active frontier' of the Union.
Another point: the coordination between INTERREG, PHARE, TACIS and MEDA.
An initial joint PHARE/CIP committee is to meet in February to assess this coordination, and let me confirm my attentiveness and availability with regard to this, together with my colleagues and fellow Commissioners Verheugen, Patten and Poul Nielson.
According to the general regulations, however, any technical assistance scheme which can claim a connection with a Community initiative must be proposed under Article 20, and not Article 23.
This means that the ceiling of 0.25% mentioned in Article 23 does not apply with regard to this type of technical assistance.
I remain at your service in order, when the time comes, to present the report of previous planning which you request, but also to keep you informed regularly as to the implementation of these initiatives in the course of the new planning.
Repeating my thanks to each and every one of you, and also particularly to Arlene McCarthy and Francis Decourrière, I should like to point out that these two initiatives lie within a financial framework with which you are familiar: only EUR 700 million for URBAN, but this is better than nothing; EUR 4 billion 800 millions for INTERREG.
On the subject of these two initiatives, then, with the light they cast on future strategic and political thinking regarding regional planning and on future financial perspectives, let me express our great interest in this constructive dialogue with the European Parliament and its committees.
As far as the possibility of having projects containing training initiatives is concerned, I might point out that this is precisely a point which we have now integrated into the new rural development policy, which means, in our view, that it is no longer necessary to do this as part of LEADER.
I should simply like to point out that this does not make very much sense at the present time because, as you know, it is still possible - and in fact will be until the end of 2001 - for LEADER II funds to be disbursed.
It has already been compiled by the Commission and I can make a copy available to any Member of this House who is interested.
In point 21, Parliament stresses that the guidelines in LEADER+ now need to be adopted quickly so that the programmes can start.
For all programmes submitted before 30 April of this year it will be possible to backdate the beginning of the period of eligibility to 1 January.
Finally, under point 20 the motion for a resolution contains seven specific proposals for amendments to the guidelines.
The proposal in paragraph 6 will also be partly accepted because it reaffirms that the time allowed for approving programmes under LEADER+ is a maximum of 5 months.
The amendment proposed under paragraph 1 has, in our view, been overtaken by events because, following consultations with the representatives of the Member States in the STAR Committee, this point has already been reworded along the lines proposed by Parliament.
I must add, however, that cooperation between our action groups and similar groups in third countries went too far for the Member States.
I will comment briefly on the 13 amendments tabled.
It is worth stressing that both Parliament and the Commission must put forward specific policies.
I agree that Article 13 contains something we have expressed our disagreement about, but that is how the Treaty stands right now and among the categories of types of discrimination, discrimination on the grounds of gender holds equal place.
I would like to remind you, however, that there is a special axis for the employment strategy which relates to women and that a special programme is being prepared, the fifth programme for equality between men and women.
