Accomplishment of the internal market in Community postal services (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the accomplishment of the internal market in Community postal services (13593/6/2007 - C6-0410/2007 - (rapporteur: Markus Ferber).
We in the European Parliament have been working very hard to achieve these goals over the past months.
I should like to thank all those who helped to achieve it - my fellow Members of the European Parliament and particularly Brian Simpson, with whom a 14-year friendship was forged by our joint efforts in the realm of postal services.
I therefore ask for your support and reiterate my thanks to all those who have cooperated very constructively in this process.
The Commission's proposal for the directive on the accomplishment of the internal market in Community postal services has been one of the most demanding legislative proposals for the co-legislators over the last 15 months.
When the Commission proposed it in October 2006, everyone expected endless disagreements and lively debates within our institutions about the future of one of the oldest and most traditional public services in Europe.
At the same time both the European Parliament and the Council accept that some postal services markets within the European Union operate under basically different conditions.
Therefore, when expressing its common position, the Council adopted the decision to set the end of 2010 as the common final date for liberalisation.
However, some Member States have been allowed a transitional period up to the end of 2012 to implement the new rules.
I would especially like to emphasise the fine work of the Commission in the whole process of common decision-making and its commitment to the effective support and guidance of the Member States in all questions relating to the implementation of the new directive.
Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow you will receive the final decision and again acknowledge our principal agreement according to the provisions of the Council common position and the recommendation by the Committee on Transport and Tourism on 9 December last year.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you once again for your cooperation and for the text, which I am certain will be approved, and thank you for your attention.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, tomorrow the European Parliament should take a historic decision that marks the end of a process launched more than 15 years ago.
It was eventually the European Parliament, through its report at first reading of 11 July 2007, that paved the way for the compromise result in front of you today.
It will give all operators time to complete their preparations.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, in recent years all of us, myself included, have repeatedly lamented the fact that, even in the case of major legislative projects, most of the seats on the Council bench have remained empty.
We reinforced the social provisions, especially on matters such as working conditions, working hours and leave entitlements.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, on behalf of the PSE Group I would like to thank Markus Ferber for his report and his hard work over many years.
The PSE Group accepts that a great deal of Parliament's first-reading position has been accepted by the Council, and this will guarantee the universal service; it will guarantee the financing of that service; it will also recognise that social protection must be in place, and it delays the implementation by two years to the end of 2010 for all the old Member States and 2012 for the new ones.
But that battle was lost over 15 years ago when Parliament accepted - against my advice at the time - to liberalise the postal services sector.
Some of us in this Parliament have delayed the full implementation for those long 15 years, but there comes a time, eventually, when we have to face up to reality.
So we will be supporting amendments 1, 2, 6, 18 and 19.
In summary, at this time we hold this standpoint and, as regards the amendments concerning conditions for the blind and the visually impaired, we would like to state clearly that, if these and only these amendments were to force a settlement to be reached, we would not be in favour.
I should first like to thank Mr Ferber for his work in seeking a compromise between Parliament and the Council in such a politically sensitive area as postal services.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, I am afraid the facts of the matter prevent me from joining the celebrations.
Those consumers who live in cities and love to receive advertising material in their letterboxes.
I therefore implore you to support our amendment on this matter.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Madam President, postal services are a labour-intensive public service.
Hitler's Tausendjähriges Reich lasted 12 years.
Thank you for your attention. (FR) Madam President, I think that the issue we shall be voting on tomorrow is a historic one, because the post has been a public service from the early days, especially since monarchies.
In addition, I should like to welcome the recent ruling by the Court of Justice to the effect that a postal service provider is entitled to enter into an agreement regarding the distribution of social welfare payments. (PT) The Council agreed to the full opening of the market in postal services at EU level from 31 December 2010 during the Portuguese Presidency, applying competition rules to what some say should be a public service to create an internal market in postal services. 'That's great', the Portuguese Prime Minister will say.
Hence our proposal to reject this directive. (SV) Madam President, the post is one of the public services which the people of our countries, both old and young, value most highly.
I hope that you will use every possible legal channel and also bring political pressure to bear to ensure that this directive is properly applied to the European postal market. (RO) Madam President, Commissioner, postal services are of major importance to the economic and social life of communities.
Full liberalization of the postal service market, including deliveries weighing less than 50 grams, will allow increased competition, the emergence of new operators and the creation of new jobs.
However, I would like to dwell on several important issues.
Secondly, we must ensure decent working conditions for people in this line of work; in particular, we must ensure that there are social guarantees concerning jobs and incomes.
Setting the date at 2012 is therefore to be welcomed.
At the same time, I would suggest that before 2012 an analysis be made of the operation of the postal services market in those countries that have already adopted the new rules, with a view to identifying and preventing any irregularities in the remaining countries.
Let me also tell you that it is simply not the case that this directive we are discussing today incorporates real safeguards to protect people - employees - from social dumping.
I also have serious concerns about the implications of public institutions awarding contracts to such companies. (PL) Madam President, work has been going on for over 15 years on liberalisation of the postal sector, which is worth over EUR 90 billion a year in the Union as a whole.
The present version of the directive is not, however, as ambitious as the Commission's original proposal.
The date of 31 December 2012 for Member States that joined the Union in 2004 seems unnecessarily distant.
I fear such a long period - over four years - for the entry into force of the directive will simply slow down changes which, in the case of a two-year period, for example, would take effect almost immediately.
They are missing from the present version. (NL) Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur and my fellow Members who have helped to achieve a result that is a considerable improvement on the original Commission proposal.
I therefore feel it would be useful to make two things clear: firstly, that the Member States are under an obligation to guarantee the universal service and funding for it whatever the circumstances, and secondly, that the Member States must be required to get their house in order and to prepare for this new situation thoroughly and in good time.
In a word, I think the directive could be tightened up, and this has nothing to do with having cold feet, but reflects the fact that a free market has to be regulated and liberalisation needs to be carefully prepared. (EL) Madam President, we are dissatisfied with the European Commission, the Council and our rapporteur, because they have made no reference to fluctuations in the number of workers in the sector, working conditions, working hours or pay.
Finally, it should be emphasised that the Council has, in a certain sense, ratified Parliament's amendments while allowing for plenty of discussion on the social consequences both for employees of services and for consumers. (DE) Madam President, the accomplishment of the internal market in postal services amply illustrates the truth of the saying 'Good things come to those who wait'.
It pays regard to the fact that preparing for liberalisation requires more time in some Member States, mainly those in Central Eastern Europe.
The common position adopted by the Council does not include the amendments concerning free postal services for blind people in spite of the fact that at first reading the European Parliament voted to maintain free postal services for blind people following liberalisation of the European postal market.
I intended to vote in favour of Amendment 3 tabled by Eva Lichtenberger, in which Parliament's position at first reading is reiterated.
I would therefore urge all of the Member States to provide free postal services for blind and partially sighted people in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and universal service obligations. (PL) Madam Chairman, I would also like to support the amendments concerning visually impaired persons.
This Directive will mean that from 1 January 2009 the internal market in Community postal services will be fully accomplished.
However, we must stress that the proposed text is a balanced compromise between, on the one hand, the opening up of the internal market in postal services, securing competitiveness and the added value that comes with it, and, on the other hand, consumer protection and protection of the rights of consumers and the rights of vulnerable consumer groups and those living in remote areas.
In short, in the Council's estimation, it is a good compromise text and I would like to express my support for that opinion.
We are therefore of the opinion that this is a good text and I hope you will exercise much political wisdom tomorrow when you have the final chance to support this text.
The Commission. - First of all I would like to extend my thanks to all the participants in the debate and stress that this debate has proven the MEPs' great interest in this dossier.
I would like to stress that the completion of this process will ensure a consistently high quality of universal service for all European citizens and for the business community.
Under Article 23 of the Directive, the European Commission must prepare a report on the application of this Directive, including information about the groups mentioned above.
Nevertheless, I do wonder whether blind people should have free access, guaranteed by European legislation, and wheelchair users should not.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) I welcome the approval, at second reading, of the Council common position amending the 1997 postal services directive with a view to full accomplishment of the internal market in postal services and I congratulate my worthy German colleague, Markus Ferber, for the huge amount of work he has done.
I am pleased that the Council accepted all the key aspects of the European Parliament's position, particularly deferral of general market opening until 31 December 2010, with a two-year extension for those Member States that have joined the Union since 2004; the principle of a universal service comprising at least one delivery and collection five days a week for every EU citizen, with a sufficient number of access points maintained in rural, remote or sparsely populated regions; and observance of subsidiarity with regard to social considerations - a matter on which I hope the social partners will work at European level.
My final point is this: I am keen to see operators reaching agreement soon on the introduction of a European stamp for 50 g letters and I intend to take a policy initiative to that end at an early date.
in writing. - (RO) The common position satifies the demands made by Parliament in its votes for the first reading, as well as the amendments proposed by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Experience in those countries has not so far indicated that liberalisation has led to an increase in the number of jobs in this sector, or to an increase in their quality.
in writing. - (PL) Madam President, the road to the liberalisation of postal services is getting longer, and for that the European Parliament is partly to blame, having extended the European Commission's deadline by two years.
The positions taken by national delegations reflect the varying situation on the markets of the 27 countries.
Starting from their model of a state-controlled economy, the new Member States consider not only the original proposal of 2009 but also the compromise deadline of 2011 as a threat to jobs in the postal sector.
Poland, for example, has some 100 000 people employed by Poczta Polska, which is incapable of facing open competition in the medium term.
Having found allies in public services in western Europe, first and foremost France's La Poste, they have succeeded in negotiating special conditions that postpone the free market in practice to the end of 2012.
The slow progress made in liberalising this sector of the European market, which began as far back as 1989 with the first draft directive, shows the strength of the corporate interests defending the status quo against an extension of the public interest.
in writing. - Yet again we have an ideologically driven proposal, this time on postal services.
They do not want to see their local post offices closed because the market offers insufficient profit for the private postal companies which will swamp the market, driving public operators like An Post to the wall.
in writing. - (ET) I support the market being liberalised as quickly as possible and I welcome the directive which accomplishes the establishment of the internal market in postal services.
It is necessary to draw up plans for a cost-oriented universal postal service, since the concept is viewed differently in different Member States.
in writing. - (DE) EU-wide liberalisation of postal services will happen - not in 2009, as originally planned, but in 2011.
Particular importance attaches to good working conditions and, above all, job security for all those who work in the postal services.
We must create a good and sustainable arrangement for everyone - the postal companies, their employees and, of course, their customers.
in writing. - The liberalisation of postal services is an important area of the European internal market.
in writing. - (RO) The full liberalisation of postal services in Member States will have a positive impact not only on postal service users and consumers, who will benefit from new and innovative services and lower postal charges, but also on the economy of Member States as a whole.
This timeline benefits Romanian consumers, as the prospect of market liberalisation after 1 January 2013 means improved quality services at an affordable price.
