Meeting of the European Council of 14 and 15 December 2006 - Activities of the Finnish Presidency The next item is the joint debate on the European Council report and Commission statement on the meeting of the European Council of 14 and 15 December 2006 and the statement by the Presidency-in-Office of the Council on the activities of the Finnish Presidency during its six-month term.
President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to be here once again to talk with you in my capacity as President of the European Council.
A meeting of the European Council during Finland's Presidency was held in Brussels on 14 and 15 December.
As Finland's six-month Presidency of the Council draws to a close, I also want to tell you what we have done for our Union during our term.
Last Thursday at the European Council we offered President of the European Parliament, Josep Borrell, our sincerest thanks, now that his duties are almost over.
Mr President, it has been a pleasure working with you.
The main themes at the December European Council were the EU's enlargement policy, justice and home affairs, and consolidation of the results of the informal summit in Lahti.
It is a pleasure to welcome Bulgaria and Romania as members of our European family.
The situation was clear: Turkey had not honoured its commitments and that has consequences.
The outcome of the European Council is that the Union remains open to new members.
One of the objectives which the Finnish Presidency set itself was to keep the EU's enlargement policy open and not close the door on deserving applicants.
At the same time, obviously, the Union's enlargement policy must be respected.
During our Presidency, we have had systematic discussions with all Member States concerning the Constitutional Treaty.
Now the Member States have started to think seriously about the future and many take the view that the Constitutional Treaty was actually a well thought-out and successful package.
It is difficult to reopen talks without creating new problems.
At the same time I want to say that my personal view is that picking the Treaty apart would be no more than an apparent solution at best.
The Constitutional Treaty will not enter into force unless it is endorsed by all 27 Member States.
The requirement of unanimity is a barrier to justice and home affairs and hinders real progress.
That is why I welcome the fact that, in spite of everything, the European Council sent an unequivocal message that more effective decision-making on justice and home affairs is important, along with the principles set out in the Constitutional Treaty, and that means switching to qualified majority voting.
The European Council held in-depth discussions on the Union's immigration policy.
It is in a spirit of solidarity that we all remember the problems that the Mediterranean Member States faced in the summer.
The European Council also endorsed the important results of the informal summit in Lahti.
Promoting innovation must be an integral part of the EU's competition strategy.
At the same time they were among the most important areas of cooperation discussed this autumn with Russia, the United States and our Asian partners.
If it is dull for decisions to be taken in an orderly fashion and on schedule, then yes, I have to say that I am dull and proud of it.
Mr President, there are 13 days remaining of the Finnish Presidency.
One important theme during our term has been to strengthen the unity of the Union.
At the informal summit in Lahti, we had a good discussion with the Russian President, Mr Putin, and the EU was able to speak with one voice to Russia.
Russia is important for the EU and we are bound together by many ties, but it is fair to say that there are a lot of developments in Russia that worry us.
I am not persuaded that Russia is heading in the right direction.
I think that the new agreement provides an excellent illustration of the problem we face.
If no common agreement is possible, a regrettable and short-sighted option is a network of bilateral agreements that would enable Russia to treat different Member States in different ways.
I am particularly pleased that we achieved a result on Schengen enlargement.
So I believe that Prime Minister Vanhanen and the Finnish Presidency are to be congratulated on holding fast to a clear direction for the Union: a Europe of results that is concentrated on delivery.
I think it illustrates a general trend towards a consistent approach, building ambitious policy reform for Europe year on year, an approach better suited to the kind of consensus policy agenda we have today.
At the European Council meeting we expressed our gratitude for the role that President Borrell Fontelles has played during his period in office, the role he has played while defending the European Parliament in a responsible and constructive way, taking the approach of a good partnership with the Council and Commission.
If you look at what has really happened in concrete terms on the Services Directive, on enlargement, on energy, on REACH (we have just witnessed the signature of the REACH regulation), on the seventh research framework programme (the biggest ever, with a 40% increase in real terms), on the new system for Schengen (especially important for new Member States), on our response on Lebanon, on our response on the Congo (where the European Union was by far the biggest contributor to the successful democratic elections, the first ever in that important African country), on all those issues and on several others we have seen the three institutions much more focused on delivering results to the citizens of Europe and, hopefully, much less on Brussels turf wars.
I think that we can learn some lessons here as we deepen the debate over the future of Europe next year.
There is a common understanding that we need to combine the strategic vision of enlargement - our open Europe - with the capacity of integration of the European Union.
The consensus shows that strict conditions must be met, but we must keep the momentum moving forward in relation to our existing negotiating partners and give new impetus to the aspirations of the Western Balkans.
This was clearly underlined during the European Council meeting.
I am glad that the European Commission was able to provide the European Council with the right groundwork to make this consensus possible.
In particular European Union leaders recognise that it was not enough to manage the problem.
I am particularly happy that the Council agreed to the European Union Africa Summit next year, which will provide an excellent platform for dialogue.
I have to underline once again that we need a more efficient decision-making process in the area of justice and home affairs in the European Union, and not only in that area.
Thirdly, on innovation, I am also pleased to have the support of the Member States for our proposals on innovation and the European Institute of Technology.
I know that Parliament shares the conviction that the innovation agenda is central to a competitive Europe and I look forward to our working together on this in the coming months.
Over the last six months we have seen the European Union delivering, showing that it is serious about the twin-track strategy of a Europe of results to move Europe forward, that concrete projects are a way to fulfil the EU-grade projects.
If you look at three key areas - economy, energy and climate, and external policy - you can see the European Union delivering real change on issues that matter for citizens.
Last June we agreed our twin-track strategy of a Europe of results.
We have to say once again that the Europe of the future cannot be built with the tools of the past.
The report made by Prime Minister Vanhanen to the European Council was a very important contribution to the work that should now continue under the German Presidency.
I look forward to working closely with the incoming German Presidency and I should like to thank once again the Finnish Prime Minister, Mr Vanhanen, and all his team for their very serious, very committed and very energetic contribution to the progress of Europe. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council on his Presidency on behalf of our group.
The President-in-Office has described our difficult relations with Russia.
We also affirm that we do not want to secure our energy supply at the expense of our human rights.
Nevertheless, we affirm that we want good neighbourly relations.
I hope that the joint declaration of 25 March - that is, the declaration by the European Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission - proves an early indicator of our will to lead the EU towards a better future.
Last week, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats decided to elect a new chairman on 9 January.
This means that, after seven-and-a-half years, or 90 months, this will be my last speech as Chairman of this great - and sometimes difficult - group.
Subsequently, on 15 January, our new Group Chairman will thank the President officially on behalf of the PPE-DE Group for his impressive work; whereas I should like to do so today on my own behalf.
It has also been very sincere and - I say this from my point of view and hope he can confirm it - very friendly throughout.
I should also like to say a word of thanks to my fellow Members.
Above all, I should like to thank him for the mutual trust that underpins our relationship.
Mr Commission President, the formation of the present Commission was the toughest period of my political life - but that is now in the past.
I am glad that, under the leadership of the Commission President, the Commission has found its feet and is doing an impressive job.
Even though the Commission and Parliament have different roles, we nevertheless have a common goal, namely an EU that is strong and capable of action.
I am certain that our dream can become reality: the dream of a strong Europe, a democratic Europe, a Europe capable of action, a Europe oriented towards the rule of law.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has thanked the President-in-Office of the Council, which is a good thing, and I should like to join them in doing so.
The enlargement process entails a responsibility on our part.
A clear message was also sent out at the weekend to those who believe that enlargement can be continued without carrying out the reforms that are essential as part of the constitutional process.
Anyone in favour of enlargement, therefore - as the means to meet people's needs and make peace - needs a Europe that functions effectively.
For this reason, I should like to make it clear here that, without the reforms built into the constitutional process, there will be no enlargement with the support of my group, but with the constitutional reforms there shall be. (Applause) In the course of the debate at the weekend, we heard a second positive - in my opinion very positive - series of statements that will point the way ahead for the coming years.
The fact that the EU has declared its support for migration policy by moving away from just restrictions and admitting that we in this continent need migration and controlled immigration is a very positive signal. 'At long last,' it has to be said.
As all the speakers have now mentioned, Parliament, together with the Finnish Presidency, has brought to a conclusion two important legislative procedures that point the way ahead.
I do not want to address all the other Group Chairmen - I shall address him and him alone.
In this respect, Mr Poettering has actually managed to be the Chairman of two groups without anyone noticing.
Prime Minister, you and your government have shown that Finland is a poor second to none when it comes to running a European Union Presidency.
I believe that 86% of legislative decisions under your Presidency have been taken in public: a total of 90 decisions compared with only 17 last year.
We need leadership from our Heads of State and Government telling people what a success enlargement has been and how continued enlargement will be needed, once we have our constitutional arrangements in place.
The European Parliament needs an ideological majority rather than a große Koalition.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I also wish to join my colleagues in thanking Prime Minister Vanhanen for the work of the Finnish Presidency.
I also wish to put on the record once again my thanks to Minister Lehtomäki who, over the last six months, has been so good to all of us here in Parliament and has been most attentive and engaging at all times.
Firstly, as the Prime Minister pointed out, there were no serious headlines highlighting a split or a division amongst the Member States of the European Union.
Whilst people may find that boring or dull, it leads to the conclusion that there has been a certain success, because only when there is failure do people put a spin on why the failure happened, to blame somebody else.
One of the major successes in the Council's Conclusions has been the idea of solidarity amongst the Member States concerning our dealings with Russia.
Our resolve for 2007 should be to ensure that we will never see that occur again.
To make sense of what Mr Schulz has to say is even more important, and I appreciate that from them as well.
We were also convinced, together with a group of MEPs in this Parliament, that before admitting Cyprus to our Union, it was necessary to resolve the problem of the division of the island, and today we are inheriting this failure to reach a solution by the European Union as a whole.
Mr President, I too would like to thank Mr Poettering for his kindness towards us and also for the fact that, in some cases, we have managed to work quite well together.
I also hope that in the future - if you will allow me this personal observation - if Parliament gives him a majority, he will put to one side a certain emphasis that is a little too close to a religion, which benefits neither Europe nor Parliament.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, as this is the last plenary joint debate of the year, I too wish to take the opportunity to express my thanks.
Mr Poettering belongs to a different political group, but I think that that is a good thing.
I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for the Finnish Council Presidency, and for the constructive cooperation there has been between the Presidency and Parliament.
I am stating this expressly in spite of the fact that the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left cannot support the two main projects that were set in motion during the Finnish Presidency - the Services Directive and REACH - as they stand.
It is true that no one can predict accurately at present how soon after Bulgaria and Romania we shall be able to welcome new countries into the EU, but it must remain clear that all the European countries that share our common values and meet the conditions for admission, particularly the Copenhagen criteria, have a right to apply for membership of the EU.
From my point of view, this entails finding a universally accepted way out of the constitutional crisis during the German Council Presidency.
The people must be able to associate their personal vision for the future for themselves and their families with Europe once again.
To the President of the Commission I say that this would really be a Europe of results.
That is exactly what must not happen, however, and that is why, Mr President-in-Office and Mr President of the Commission, the issue of social justice must be a top political priority. (Applause) on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, my congratulations to Mr Vanhanen and the Finnish Presidency.
Well, that word means more power for the European Union.
Thank you very much, Mr Dillen.
Stubb turns to 'Stub' and I think that next year it will be 'Schtub', so it is all going in the right direction.
Firstly, I would like to thank and congratulate the Finnish Presidency, especially four Ministers, and then a group of people.
Most of all I would like to thank the civil servants, especially Ambassador Eikka Kosonen.
If you were to put pluses and minuses on the Presidency, I think the pluses would far exceed the minuses - Lebanon, the Services Directive, REACH, research, enlargement, climate change and Schengen.
To finish off, I would like to say that the Finnish Presidency was cool, calm and collected.
If you could personify things, I would say that you, Mrs Lehtomäki, were Mrs Cool.
On the other hand, if the dossier has to be clarified as the Heads of State have said, that clarification must be concerned with what is constitutional and what is not; that will be a much more complicated exercise than simply separating the first and second parts from the rest.
I think that is a basis on which things can develop in the days ahead.
They will move very quickly.
On 26 January, the 'yes' countries will be meeting in Madrid.
When we are discussing the new challenges from countries applying to join the Union, that is a result of achievements and success, not of the failure, Mr Farage.
Our citizens would rather have a small Europe that works than one which is too large and which functions poorly. (Applause) (FI) Mr President, during the course of the Union's history we have frequently seen how small Member States find themselves having to keep the principle of integration alive, when the large Member States have their own problems.
The governments of all Member States need to pay more attention to this when they discuss issues with their own national parliaments.
So far all enlargements have been economic and political successes. (PL) Mr President, I would like to thank the Finnish Presidency, above all for the way it dealt with the highly delicate strategic partnership with Russia.
I believe that the Finnish Presidency is a good example of how to act on the European level to promote deeper integration, and how to achieve deeper integration whilst also opening the European Union to the outside world. (NL) Mr President, I should first of all like to thank the Finnish Presidency for its good cooperation with regard to the development instrument.
We have indeed obtained those results, thanks to the European Parliament; I would go so far as to say that 2006 was the Year of Parliament, because it was able to show that it had real political vision and that it was not a rubber-stamp chamber.
I will mention the Services Directive, REACH, etc.
On Turkey, you told us that Turkey's accession process was only slowed down.
President Barroso referred to the European Union's integration capacity, saying it was essential.
The German Presidency will therefore have a tremendous amount of work to do; I wish it good luck. (NL) Mr President, I too am indebted to the Finnish Presidency.
It is my firm conviction that this divisive issue should not be used as a pretext for refusing entry to countries that have already achieved a lot on the road to accession. (FI) Mr President, during its presidential term, Finland promoted qualified majority decisions on third pillar issues by means of the passerelle clauses.
Six months ago I saw some Euroscepticism in your EU approach, but when you said that qualified majority voting and the codecision procedure with the European Parliament are the best and most effective way to govern the European Union, that was the best part of your speech.
At least it keeps the Member States better committed to the European Union and its common policies.
Of the 35 negotiating chapters, only eight are closed, which is a very good result for the Finnish Presidency.
I can only echo what my colleagues have already said. (Applause) - (PL) Mr President, almost everything that can be said, has been said.
The Kremlin eagerly supports this foolish behaviour.
Russia is putting our agricultural policy and solidarity to the test.
Thinking qualitatively, however, I can say that Finland has done well in legislative projects and taken them forward.
So I might say that this Presidency ... (The President cut off the speaker) (PL) Mr President, as far as external policy is concerned, the European Union has shown its weakness by not having a single standpoint.
Presidencies, which are short-lived, may come and go, but a common platform of well-defined objectives must remain, at least over the long term, because at the end of the day the European Union must be a union not of governments, but of ordinary citizens, and this is a challenge that we must face, and in which I wish all actors of the European institutions success in 2007. (ES) Mr President, as your mandate is drawing to an end, I would like to thank you for your visits to Poland.
The countries of Central and Eastern Europe will play a more important role in the European Union than that conferred on them up until now by the Member States of the Europe of Fifteen.
He fails to recognise that 18 Member States have said yes, even where a referendum was held.
That compromise must take account of the views of those who said no, but it must also take account of the large majority who have said yes. (Applause) (EL) Mr President, I shall confine myself to the reference which the President-in-Office of the Council made to the issue of enlargement, especially as far as Turkey is concerned.
Therefore, the Summit Conclusions in this respect take us one step further because they include a series of concrete steps in this regard. (SL) This has been the last presidency of a European Union composed of 25 Member States, and I should like to add to the chorus of tributes already offered a tribute to the culture in which this presidency has been conducted, as I think that has constituted an important dimension and been a significant part of the success of this presidency.
On the other hand, 18 Member States have already ratified it.
Lastly, enlargement in the Western Balkans, in particular Croatia, is now a German Presidency priority, but we do not need a full-blown EU Constitution to achieve that. . - (PL) Mr President, I agree that the last six months have been overshadowed by relations between the European Union and Russia.
Finally I would also like to express my satisfaction with the words spoken in this House by the Finnish premier, who said that what is happening in Belarus is a disgrace on Europe.
Mr President of the Council, the Finnish presidency conveyed an important message to all Europeans.
I believe that Slovakia in particular, together with all the new Member States, will meet all of the requirements and that the Schengen area will be extended.
Thank you very much, Mr Buzek.
I would endorse what Mrs Grossetête said that 2006 has been Parliament's year in particular.
One of the challenges of the future will be facing us already next year, when a decision must also be taken on the European Institute of Technology.
This was indeed a successful Presidency and, as someone said, it was the last Presidency of a European Union of 25 members.
On 1 January 2007 we are going to welcome Romania and Bulgaria.
The good work that has been done was important, as was the election, with a great deal of support, of the two new Commissioners from Romania and Bulgaria.
It was a very clear signal of this Parliament's support for the enlarged European Union.
Russia is a very important partner, a close neighbour and a partner with whom we want to have a strategic long-term relationship.
One is the 'business as usual' approach, pretending that everything is going in the right direction.
On this matter we have to tell our Russian partners that this is non-negotiable.
However, there is something we can control, which is solidarity among our Member States.
Now, in the face of an embargo on one of our Member States, we can also express a common position.
I hope that matter can be solved.
I hope the Member States will be unanimous in supporting a mandate so we can continue with the strategy I have just outlined as a good position for Europe and a position that is also useful for the future of our relations with Russia.
I wish you all a merry Christmas and a very good 2007. (Applause) The debate is closed.
