Road infrastructure safety (debate) The next item is the report by Helmuth Markov, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on road infrastructure safety management - C6-0331/2006 -.
Member of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing another topic related to the safety of our citizens on Europe's roads.
In the 2001 White Paper on European transport policy, spearheaded by Mrs Loyola de Palacio, the Commission put forward the ambitious goal of halving the number of lives on the roads by 2010.
The proposal for a directive on road infrastructure safety management offers a good combination of preventive and corrective measures.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after more than one and a half years of negotiations, all the parliamentary groups, the Council and the Commission have finally agreed on a compromise for a directive on road infrastructure safety management in the EU.
The most important aspect of this agreement is that all participants recognise that road infrastructure safety is essential to improve safety on Europe's roads.
A year ago, the Committee on Transport rejected the proposal from the Commission on road infrastructure safety management as it was too bureaucratic and, in our view, failed to generate any added value.
The directive only requires Member States to introduce four procedures on road infrastructure safety management, and only concerns roads that are part of the TENs.
Because the annexes are not binding, Member States can arrange the requisite procedures for themselves.
If the number of road accidents in Poland is similar to that in Germany, it means that the situation in Poland is bad.
Implementation of these measures is very important, however.
It is a directive that can prove useful in that regard, setting the standard governments will have to implement.
I should like to add to what Mr Markov, our rapporteur, has said.
The directive on improving the safety of road infrastructure on the trans-European network is a document that will reduce the number of accidents.
Member States can draw on the provisions of the directive when organising supervision of national and regional roads with a view to reducing the number of accidents on the European Union's roads.
Some 40 000 people lose their lives in road accidents every year, and accidents of this type are the main cause of death for people under 45 years of age.
I think that targeted investment in the maintenance of infrastructure and road markings, including the application of information technology, are needed in the long run, and not just on main roads and in the new countries.
Amendment 5 is good: 'Several Member States already possess well functioning road safety management systems.
The UK would be better off out. (PL) Mr President, before I contribute to the debate, I should like to congratulate the Commissioner on his appointment.
Some 43 000 people die every year on the European Union's roads.
The initiative aimed at improving the safety of road infrastructure is very important.
Two-thirds of those who lose their lives in road accidents are victims of accidents on single carriageway roads outside built up areas and in the countryside.
The TRAN Committee supported the amendment by which Member States can implement the provisions of this directive, as a set of good practices, for the national road infrastructure as well, not included into the TEN-T network, built by entirely or partially using Community funds.
I end by emphasizing the need to build safer parking areas and I hope Mr.
Safety issues of this kind concern them and can affect them in their everyday lives and, indeed, if this legislative proposal seeks to lower the risk of accidents and reduce the number of dead and injured on our roads by helping to ensure that safety is integrated in all phases of planning, design and operation of road infrastructures in the trans-European network, then it warrants our attention.
Finally, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur. (DE) Mr President, road safety is an important subject in Europe.
Many of our fellow Members have said that a great deal happens, and can happen, in the other road networks too, and in response to that, I would point out that there is nothing to stop Member States taking action here.
In that respect, Mr Markov, I believe that we must be moderately content, but content all the same.
Mr President, I wish to congratulate Mr Markov not just for the quality of his report but also for his perseverance in concluding it, in spite of the obstacles put in his way, mainly by some members of the Transport Committee - perhaps inadvertently.
Regardless of where we are in the European Union, we must be able to rely on a minimum level of quality in our road infrastructure.
After the Council agreed on a general orientation on the Commission proposal, aimed at doing away with the binding nature of the annexes to the directive and restricting its application to trans-European road networks, it was finally possible - thanks to the commitment of the rapporteur, whom I must congratulate - to adopt a report in the Committee on Transport.
In 2001 the European Union set the ambitious target of halving by 2010 the number of deaths on European roads.
Member of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to respond to the comments made by a large number of Members during the course of this debate.
That is why I wish to turn the event planned by the Commission for 10 July in Brussels as a meeting with young people not into a formal affair but into a special occasion, if possible with a high media profile, by inviting members of the public to describe the risks they run on the roads each day, and in particular the risks run by our young people.
That is why I invite you to attend the event for young people on 10 July.
The Commission is making preparations in Paris, but also in other European cities.
That is why we must make a commitment and why I become so heated about this issue, which, I repeat, I consider to be a priority in the transport sector and a crucial aspect of my duties. (FR) The translation is perhaps easier when I speak in French.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, I would like to thank all our fellow Members once again for the debate.
The vote will take place on Thursday ,19 June 2008.
