&#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the preparation of the European Council in Brussels, 25 and 26 March 2004 – follow up to the IGC. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I am very happy to address you today in relation to the preparations for the Spring European Council and the IGC follow-up.
As you will be aware from our detailed discussions on the Lisbon strategy at the last part-session, the Irish presidency is determined that the primary focus of the Spring European Council should be, as set out at Lisbon and Gothenburg, the follow-up to the Lisbon strategy with a strong emphasis on implementation and the need to target specific areas for concerted action by the Union.
The future financial perspectives and current issues on the international agenda will also be addressed.
When I addressed Parliament last month, I outlined the issues on which we intend to focus at the Spring European Council on 25 and 26 March.
I am pleased that Member States share our conviction that the agenda for the European Council should remain focused, and have given broad support for our approach of concentrating on a limited number of key issues.
Similarly, Member States have also agreed that the overreaching priorities for the Council should be those of sustainable growth and employment as identified by us in the first draft of the annotated agenda issued on 17&#160;February.
The Taoiseach will present the Irish presidency’s report on where matters stand in the Intergovernmental Conference.
On the basis of our report and following discussions at the dinner, it will then be for the European Council to decide how best to proceed, and in particular whether the time is ripe for the IGC to be re-convened.
The Taoiseach owes it to his colleagues to present matters to them in a very direct manner.
In keeping with our mandate from Brussels in December, the Irish presidency has consulted widely among participants in the IGC, including the European Parliament.
The Taoiseach has spoken with all other members of the European Council.
Intensive and detailed discussions have also taken place at ministerial and official levels.
Partners have agreed with us in good faith and in a positive and constructive way.
Most of these were identified by the Italian presidency in the paper published ahead of the meeting of the European Council in December, though others are also on the table.
While there has been particular public focus on the institutional side of things, I can assure Parliament that our discussions with partners are not limited to those aspects of the draft Constitutional Treaty.
Our broad sense is that, while there are a reasonable number of outstanding issues, on the great majority it will be relatively easy to find consensus in the context of a process leading to an overall conclusion.
It is also, however, very important to put it on the record that 25 Member States and 25 governments have a responsibility in this matter: it does not come down to the presidency.
However, I can say, and I have said it several times, that if political will is present, it will be easy to find a solution to the outstanding issues.
The key to early agreement is political willingness to agree.
The issues have been debated intensively and extensively.
At this point, I do not believe that outstanding differences will become easier to resolve over time.
In the second half of this year it will not be any easier to resolve the issues.
Parliament will change, the Commission will change, the political players will change and it would be unwise to take the view that we have time on our side.
It will enable the Union to respond more effectively to the concerns of citizens and to play a more dynamic role in the wider world.
The Commission welcomes the opportunity provided by the discussion this morning to draw attention to the importance of a satisfactory agreement on the proposed constitution.
The Commission is convinced that the presidency has done, and is still doing, exactly what is necessary.
However, our Irish colleagues have a true talent for promoting understanding – except, of course, where English rugby is concerned – and we hope that their diligent efforts will bear fruit and that the presidency report to the European Council will be able to conclude that all delegations are disposed to sign the constitutional treaty before the European elections.
No democrat could, or would, fear the prospect of multiple debates, but clarity and rigour in all discussions would obviously be served best by ensuring that each salient issue is tackled on its own terms and merits.
Meanwhile, the rational desire to conclude the IGC successfully and with reasonable dispatch should not deflect us from the course which Parliament and the Commission have followed on the content of the constitution.
I am sure that the Commission reflects the majority opinion in this House by emphasising that the text drafted by the Convention should not be diluted.
The real risk is rather that the Convention draft becomes amended to the point where, cumulatively, almost accidentally, the ambition and the attractiveness of the constitution dwindles and the singular opportunity of clarifying and developing the Union provided by drafting a constitution slips away.
The representatives and, more importantly, the people of the European Union would then inherit problems rather than answers.
For instance, debates in the months before the Brussels European Council showed that the fact that a proposed change attracts widespread support from Member States does not necessarily make it a move in the wrong direction, as some seemed to contend at the time.
For instance, the Italian presidency has helpfully made it clear that some of the texts circulating in the final hours of the December European Council – which some regarded as presidency compromises – have no formal status.
The House is fully aware of the controversial issues that remain.
The Commission has made it clear on many occasions that it holds the view that the compromise reached in the Convention on the 'double-hatted' status of an EU foreign affairs representative should not be changed, that the enhanced budget powers of the European Parliament should not be altered, that the scope of qualified majority voting should not be reduced.
The Commission has also made clear its opinion, particularly when we are only weeks away from a European Union with 25 Member States, the practical case for an extension of qualified majority voting is stronger than ever.
It is clear that full and necessary articulation of arguments will ensure that decision-making in the enlarged Union is never easy.
The Commission's view continues to be that a double majority of 50% of the Member States representing 50% of the population would be both clear and balanced.
However, the Commission accepted the Convention's compromise of 50% of Member States and 60% of population, although, I have to say, the Commission still believes that a 50% and 55% formulation would fit the purpose of effective decision-making still better.
Whatever compromise is eventually reached, it is obvious that no one should forget that the draft constitution will need approval and ratification through the democratic processes of 25 Member States.
An arrangement that increases complexity and intensifies the difficulties of making the enlarged European Union work well would hardly be likely to attract understanding or support in either parliaments or plebiscites.
We wish the Irish presidency well in its sustained efforts in the interests of a modern Union and its citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with a few words to the President-in-Office on behalf of my group to express our sincere appreciation and admiration of the way in which the Irish Government is conducting its presidency of the Council.
I believe this is a good example of the way in which even our less populous countries can achieve major political progress.
Mr President-in-Office, I emphatically welcome your statement that, if it were a matter for the Irish presidency, you would bring the Intergovernmental Conference to a successful conclusion during your tenure.
For my own part, I have always urged the Government of Germany to be flexible and move forward.
But these efforts by the German Government must be accompanied by similar efforts on the part of other governments.
The functions and responsibilities of the European Parliament are described in the draft constitution.
Its provisions represent a huge leap forward for the European Parliament, democracy and parliamentarianism in Europe.
Under the Convention’s proposals, the Commission will be appointed in such a way, with the President of the Commission being proposed by the Heads of State or Government, that its composition will reflect the results of the European elections.
We do need to call to mind the strenuous efforts that were made before the Convention’s proposal materialised.
I should like to reiterate my thanks to the two representatives of Parliament, Klaus&#160;Hänsch and Elmar&#160;Brok, for their great work and, of course, to Valéry&#160;Giscard&#160;d’Estaing for his chairmanship of the Convention as well as to all those from our Parliament and from the national parliaments and governments who contributed to the final draft.
I remember very well how the President of the French Republic, as President of the European Council, explained the Treaty of Nice to us in December 2000 and how, in his response to our criticism of the outcome of the Nice Summit, he made a declaration of intent.
That work must not be in vain.
Mr&#160;President-in-Office, I wish you every success and hope that you will harvest the fruits of these efforts before the end of your presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to genuinely apply the principles of fraternity, solidarity and equality and to bring forward the European Constitution.
Another important issue – above all fundamental to Parliament – is the scope of qualified majority voting and the balanced distribution of legislative power between Parliament and the Council, including budgetary power.
I believe that Parliament should express its opinion clearly.
Another important point dealt with in the informal meeting, as well as many others, which was held in Berlin amongst three countries is the creation of a person in charge of the economy in the Commission, a minister for coordination.
If we seriously want the Lisbon strategy to make progress, a strategy which creates employment and which also creates technological conditions for the future, we must give it a face.
With regard to the financial perspectives – which also continue to be a contentious issue – we support the Commission’s presentation of the proposal for the financial perspectives in accordance with its responsibilities and we cannot accept being haggled down, above all at a time of enlargement.
Parliament could have said that it is in favour of 1.4% of GDP.
Finally, Mr President, my group is clearly in agreement with taking account of the result of the European elections, on the basis that we all want to win them.
In any event, however, there is a fundamental point: given the European political landscape, no party is going to have a hegemony and, if we apply parliamentary thinking when it comes to proposing the President of the Commission, we must be consistent.
In a parliamentary system, the important thing is the capacity to create majorities, and that is done according to a programme.
Yet there is something a little strange in talking about the future of Europe when the draft constitution fashioned to facilitate that future languishes in Council.
Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House welcome the intensive consultations undertaken by the presidency.
President-in-Office, we urge you not to give up on your efforts to break the deadlock at the IGC and secure a constitution for Europe before the elections to this House in June.
Your line that it is 'possible to find a consensus in the context of a process leading to a conclusion' is one of Sir&#160;Humphrey's finest.
The potential problems of an EU of 25 are painfully clear.
Without institutional reform this Union cannot function effectively.
I regret that the European left, which gave us the inspirational leadership of Jacques&#160;Delors, now seems to lack conviction about the future of our continent.
The European Council also has to debate Europe's external relations.
It should be recognised that without exception, Europe speaks more strongly in the world when it speaks with a single voice.
Employment has proved pretty resistant, or so it appears from the report, which goes as far as to invent the piquant neologism of ‘delayed improvements in employment levels’, before admitting the bitter truth that, ‘in its first decline in ten years, the euro zone recorded a loss of some 200&#160;000 jobs (in net terms) in 2003, and the unemployment rate should continue to rise slightly in 2004’.
After four years of the Lisbon strategy, let me quote the Commission, ‘the percentage of young people dropping out of the school system without any qualifications was over 18% in 2003, 17.2% of young Europeans aged 15 do not have the minimum necessary skills (reading, writing, arithmetic)’.
Finally, the Commission’s report offers a new and bold definition of another of the Lisbon strategy’s key concepts: ‘the sustainable development approach is beginning to be taken into account in the definition of policies [...] it is thus that several Member States have embarked on reforms to their pension systems in order to face up to the problems of an ageing population’.
If that is what sustainable development is, then the Council must surely be full of ecologists.
After the Spring Summit, it will be time to work towards a new spring for Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, somewhere in Paris, in the care of the Chairman of the Convention, Valéry Giscard d’Estaing, is a huge display board which, on the day of the Convention’s last meeting, stood at the front of the conference Chamber.
Yesterday I asked President Giscard d’Estaing to release this board.
My proposal is that it should be displayed in front of the next summit of Heads of State or Government, some of whom have completely forgotten that they sent their own personal representatives to take part in that constitutive process and that the signatures of those representatives attest to their having endorsed the result of the Convention’s deliberations.
The first of these is that the Convention cannot defend its own draft and, with the Convention having completed its work, the European parliaments have lost the only place where they could coordinate their efforts and join forces to defend the parliamentary and democratic dimension of the constitutional provisions.
Our second main problem, Mr President-in-Office, is that the Convention was public.
The Intergovernmental Conference marks a reversion to those clandestine, discreet and conspiratorial gatherings of our imperial potentates, who presume to develop the European constitution in this feudal manner – a constitution which, by its very nature, is a parliamentary matter.
Those aims related, quite simply, to democracy, effectiveness and Europe’s place in the world.
Only one motive: more power for the national governments.
All 320 proposals have but one common denominator: no more social Europe, no more democracy, no more fundamental civil and other rights, no more parliamentarianism, no more efforts to build an effective EU, but only more power for themselves.
Anyone who is seriously concerned about this trend might recognise a second motive, namely nationalism.
It took 105 people 16 months to develop a constitution for Europe, but it has taken 25 governments only five months to tear it to shreds.
Mr President, thank you for your patience.
Let it serve as a reminder that the future of Europe is at stake. &#160;&#160; Mr President, firstly, my sincere thanks and appreciation to the President-in-Office for the very open, sincere and straightforward presentation he made this morning; it clearly shows his respect for Parliament, for which I thank him.
A strong competitive and stable economy is essential in order to deliver sustainable growth and a better quality of life to the citizens of Europe.
All new EU legislation must be subjected to strict tests for its impact on enterprise and competitiveness.
The financial services action plan must be implemented so that there will be an integrated financial services market in the Union by 2005.
The Union cannot become the most knowledge-based economy in the world unless it takes full advantage of the new and evolving information technologies.
The e-Europe&#160;2005 programme will seek to introduce a greater level of broadband to schools to guarantee access to high-speed Internet services and increase skills development for our young people.
I firmly believe that the benefits of the information society must be spread to both urban and rural areas and to all regions within the Union.
We all know that we must put in place a new European Union treaty, if the European Union is to modernise and become more effective in a Community of 25 Member States.
Enshrined within this process must be recognition of the role of smaller states, which must be protected within any new future institutional framework.
These negotiations should not detract from one particular fact, namely that the enlargement of the Union will take place on 1 May 2004. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, my Irish friends, congratulations on your victory over England in the rugby, but remember: EU citizens must not be vanquished; they must decide.
Instead of arranging re-matches in Ireland and Denmark when we vote against a new treaty, it would be better if the Presidency were to use the Brussels Summit to say: we shall not sign any new EU Constitution if it has not been voted on in referendums in all the countries.
We could then debate our possible common future jointly and choose representatives according to our view of the Constitution.
We could then ourselves decide whether we wish to transfer more power from the voters and elected representatives in the Member States to EU officials and ministers.
We can therefore draw the conclusion that these people are in favour of the idea of clarifying relations between the EU and its Member States, but there is certainly nothing more that we can learn from this.
If the Heads of States really had, immediately prior to the European elections, agreed on a draft derived from the Convention’s version – which would be too rigid a model for an enlarged Europe, and something that I would not welcome – then the only way forward, in France at any rate, would be to call a referendum on it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, I believe that the President-in-Office identified one of the main issues here when he rightly pointed out in his address that it will be very difficult to finalise the adoption of the constitution at a later date if the process is delayed now, because our collective awareness will diminish as new players take the stage and because the political agenda develops in such a way that it is well-nigh impossible to resurrect a project after a year and a half.
It seems to me, however, that views have begun to converge and that those who stand in the way of the agreement are now fewer in number.
For this reason, and because it will become more difficult as time goes on, the Irish presidency should be encouraged to propose at the summit on 25&#160;March that an extraordinary summit be convened even before the first of May so that an agreement can be reached.
What we stand to lose if we cannot reach that agreement on the Constitutional Treaty is the chance to link enlargement with a more efficient European Union and to anchor the European Union to a bedrock of common values and transfer more power to the people, who would elect the President of the Commission through their vote in the European elections and, by virtue of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, enjoy a wide range of legal entitlements and safeguards.
I also believe that we must not jeopardise the achievement of this aim by perpetuating the myth that there is a crucial difference between the large Member States and the small ones.
In all my 24 years as a Member of this House, I have never once experienced a vote in the Council or the European Parliament in which the representatives of the large Member States lined up against those of the small Member States.
Responsibility for taking this opportunity lies with the 25 Heads of State or Government, and they must accept it.
Let me conclude by drawing a comparison with the present situation.
In my country, the parliamentary assembly that met in St Paul’s Church in Frankfurt in 1848 adopted a democratic constitution that would have paved the way for a united democratic Germany, and that the King of Prussia declined to accept.
We are all well aware of the consequences of his decision for my country and for Europe.
I hope that they will not make the same fateful error that the King of Prussia committed in 1848. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is a need that we have to pursue with determination: the need for the matters concerning the Intergovernmental Conference, or rather the draft constitution, to be addressed in a transparent way, with an approach which can be understood by public opinion, the citizens and by Parliament itself.
Following the strong element of transparency provided by the Convention for 16 months, we are now in the dark.
Nevertheless, if the path to the Constitution should still appear blocked during the occasion of the forthcoming summit, with all the consequences that we can easily imagine, the positions and responsibilities of the individual governments must in that case be clear to Parliament and to the citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to make four proposals to help the IGC reach a successful conclusion.
Firstly, as regards the qualified majority formula, we need to raise the number of states needed to form a majority, while at the same time raising the population threshold needed to form a blocking minority.
The sensible equation which seems to be commanding greater support is 55-55.
Thirdly, the IGC should be convened at summit level, preferably before 1 May, to enable a genuine political debate with a European dimension to be held.
Fourthly and finally, our leaders need to find the moral courage to shape Europe politically.
First of all, are these institutions willing straightaway to set about making the necessary adjustments to the economic and monetary policy guidelines, with the aim of replacing the Stability Pact with a Social Progress and Employment Pact, in line with the aims of full employment, economic development and economic and social cohesion, in order to guarantee further public investment, more and better employment and greater social inclusion?
Secondly, are they going to ask the European Central Bank to reduce interest rates in order to support economic growth and exports, a key issue for countries with weaker economies such as Portugal?
What is needed, therefore, is a re-evaluation of production and labour with a view to promoting economic development, employment and social cohesion, based on a steady increase in national and Community public investment, particularly in basic infrastructures, in education, in qualifications and vocational training, in research and innovation, in the environment and in support for small- and medium-sized enterprises.
Europe has always been a source of hope for its citizens; even the governments, regularly failing to solve problems, point to Europe as the place where solutions can be found.
Today, however, Europe instils fear in people.
The Member States, whether they are large or small, cannot handle this problem on their own.
At the same time, the Member States must in that way provide an efficient answer to globalisation.
I often compare the process of European integration with the epic poem on the discoveries, in which the great sixteenth century Portuguese poet, Camões, said that we were sailing ‘on hitherto uncharted waters’.
This could be a life-saver for those who wish to base their campaign in the European elections on euro-scepticism, because public opinion is barely interested at the moment and we still do not know precisely what was put forward in the first phase of the IGC under the Italian Presidency.
Many people have spoken about the issue of qualified majority voting, but I would remind you that this was not the only matter discussed.
In other words, the agenda is enormous and I therefore support and understand the words of the President of the Portuguese Republic, whose pro-European feelings are well known, calling a week ago for more time to allow the negotiations on the European Constitution to take place.
He criticised the fact that things are being done under pressure, called for more time and asked us to concentrate on the immediate problems such as the Lisbon Strategy, enlargement and negotiations on the new Community support framework. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am fully aware of the importance of this debate on the future of Europe.
I would like to turn once more, Mr President—in—Office of the Council, Commissioners, to the Chechen question.
Well, Mr President, Mr&#160;President—in—Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, as everyone knows – but no one reacted&#160;– over the course of recent weeks, the Russian authorities organised, using the puppet government in Chechnya as a cover, a series of about 30 arrests of relatives of Umar&#160;Khambiev, Chechen Minister for Health and emissary of President-elect, Aslan&#160;Maskhadov.
Starting on 29 February, in dramatic raids, dozens of masked armed men from Russian forces and Chechen militia surrounded villages, entered houses, hit, insulted and threatened to kill members of the Khambiev family to the last; they abducted and took away those members of the Khambiev family that they managed to find there.
Mr&#160;President of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in Europe – and Parliament has repeatedly spoken out in this regard, from a humanitarian and at times even political point of view&#160;– must form part of our political present.
We are going to put a question to the Council straightaway, but I think it is our duty to at least react to these methods.
Not just with radical non-violence but also by means of European political presence and compliance with the Geneva Conventions.
Perhaps we could have an answer before the end of the debate.
Let me begin by welcoming the moves made by the Irish presidency so far towards garnering consensus for the draft Constitutional Treaty.
In recent weeks a number of positive indicators have suggested an increased willingness on the part of Member States to agree a workable compromise.
Minister Roche and, indeed, the Taoiseach, have my wholehearted support in rising to the difficult task ahead of them in the months leading up to enlargement and the European elections.
A simplified single Treaty will make the EU of 25 more intelligible to the citizens of Europe by defining the EU and Member States' competences clearly.
It will introduce reforms that streamline the workings of the EU and will facilitate decision-making in an enlarged Union.
Primary among these myths is the one about the draft Treaty leading to the creation of a so-called super-state.
The EU can only spend a maximum of 1.2% of the combined GDP of all its Member States.
The foremost achievement of the European project to date has been to put an end to the rivalry and antagonism of the last century that pushed this continent into two world wars, which cost 56 million lives.
The recent conflagration in the Balkans highlights the latent potential for destruction.
We should have the courage to use our experience and our position in the world to promote peace and stability in the global arena and to treat the problems of displacement and terrorism at source, for example by helping to ensure an economic future for the millions of young people living in the Middle East.
I would end by saying to the President-in-Office that the jury is out, the ball is in his court and that he has all our support. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this month, for the second time in a short space of time, after the failure of the Italian Presidency in December, and under Irish leadership, the Heads of Government are facing a choice that is crucial to the European Union's future.
The European Council in Italy looked foolish when it failed to dispose of the narrow-minded national interest and to opt for a more democratic, efficient and transparent Europe.
Many wonder whether the Council will make the same mistake again.
Fortunately, the Irish Presidency has already done a great deal of work over the past couple of months.
Let us not produce another insignificant document, as happened at the meeting of Heads of Government in Nice in 2000.
The European Convention's draft Constitution was good news for Europe and its citizens.
It provides for a more democratic, understandable and, above all, decisive Europe.
The Irish Presidency is working in a way that instils much confidence in this House, and I wish it every success. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this morning’s preparatory debate gives me the opportunity to make a final contribution on the current and future direction of Europe’s policies.
Danger ahead!’ If it took fifty years to build the European Union that we have now, there is no small risk that we will one day see the structure implode for lack of sufficient popular support or of any ambitious vision of society, through failure to give priority to jobs, to respect for national and regional differences, and in the absence of any real solidarity.
A European constitution is not an objective in itself; it is meaningless unless it meets the public’s expectations, and this morning, I have reminded you of what – in my view – their essential expectations are. &#160;&#160; Your words, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and those of the Vice-President of the Commission lead me to believe that Ireland feels able to conclude an agreement on the Constitution put forward by the Convention.
We will be delighted if Ireland is able to achieve this, not only because Ireland is a Celtic country like my own, Galicia, but also because this would show, once again, that it is one of the Union’s great pro-European countries.
As a Member for one of Europe’s stateless nations, and one that is not even recognised as such, I have reservations about this draft Constitution arising from the shortcomings in cohesion policy and from the weakness of the positions we have adopted on our role in preserving peace in the world.
I have confidence, however, in the direction the European Union has taken historically, which is unequivocally in favour of diversity with solidarity, in contrast with the uniform approach of the Jacobin States that today prevails in the State of which I am a citizen.
This will have to change, not only here in Parliament but elsewhere too, and particularly in the Council.
There can be no democracy without transparency. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the current situation, following the failure of the summit in Brussels, is rather laughable.
In the constitutional debate, France and Germany hold forth about the need to move Europe forward, but they are the very ones who have persistently ignored the common ground rules.
The Schengen Agreement and the euro have already established the principle of differing speeds.
The substance of the draft Constitutional Treaty is a mixture of good ideas that would bring progress and, alas, questionable features such as pre-programmed conflicts of authority, which are destined to occur, for example, in the field of foreign policy between the future EU Foreign Minister and the President of the Council.
The EU is changing its nature before our very eyes.
I wish the Irish presidency every success. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the unified Europe, of 25, 27 or 30 States will not be capable of functioning with an institutional system created for a Union of six or 15 Member States.
In short, we cannot accept watered-down compromises which thwart the precious work of the Convention.
It is right to resume the process on the basis of the achievements of the Italian Presidency, which in any case managed to obtain the consensus of all the countries involved on 90% of the proposed text.
We need to discuss this, but if we want Europe to be strong politically and to be a leader in the peace initiative, this selfishness must be overcome.
One final remark, Mr&#160;President—in-Office of the Council: we should not forget to include a clear reference to Europe’s Judeo-Christian roots in the preamble.
We cannot conceive of constructing a large house for 500 million citizens by forgetting the foundations on which our common home must rest. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to follow on from Mr Tajani’s closing remarks.
We must not build Europe on weak foundations but on the common basis that incorporates the heritage of our continent.
The people of my constituency have great faith in the Irish presidency and are confident that you will yet be able to present proposals for the inclusion of such a reference in the preamble.
It is not sufficient to organise a summit on competitiveness once a year, and then consider the matter closed, when, throughout the year, we are inundated with proposals that would make Europe less competitive, of which the legislative and policy proposal on chemicals is but one example.
What I would suggest is that the Commission should declare its willingness to withdraw the ten worst proposals for directives.
I myself come from a country whose government, even though it has been told for years what it needs to do, has done nothing in years to free up the labour market and create a more competitive economy.
Those who seek to retreat from the draft produced by the Convention are snubbing their own representatives and showing contempt for the members of the national parliaments and hence the people of their own countries.
We want this constitution, we need it, and we demand that an agreement be reached before the first of May.
It is not the sole purpose of the spring summit to emphasise vigorously every year that the Lisbon Declaration is still valid, despite the lack of commitment and political will to implement its provisions.
This commitment and will are lacking among the national governments, which are equipped with the necessary instruments, but they are also lacking within the Commission, whose preparation and monitoring of the spring summit ranges from sloppy to unsatisfactory.
The summit must not degenerate into a talking shop.
We need a public discussion, a public debate, on the level of compliance with this innovation and investment pact, analogous to the discussion on observance of the Stability and Growth Pact.
So let us not play off the one against the other, but rather let us do what we have to do. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to congratulate the Irish presidency on the work it has done in picking up the thread of an IGC that was cut short in December for the lack of any real political will to complete the institutional reform of the EU, even though this is crucial to the proper functioning of Europe in the years to come.
Speaking on behalf of the French delegation within the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and joining with the great majority of my fellow MEPs, from whom you have already heard, what I ask of the forthcoming Brussels European Council is that it should demonstrate its determination, in political terms, to overcome difficulties which, whilst important, are still secondary to what is really at stake: making the unification of our continent a political, economic and social triumph.
It is absolutely vital that the draft constitution put before us by the Convention, the exceptional success of which we can see today in the light of the difficulties the IGC had with it, should be adopted with the minimum possible delay.
Moreover, the Lisbon objectives, which are ambitious but realistic, necessarily involve putting in place proactive policies enabling us to compete with our trading partners, first among them the United States and Japan, in the strategic areas of research and development, education, and lifelong training.
Let us therefore implement these necessary reforms and overcome our fruitless divisions in order to make Europe a success on every front.
Although the Spring European Council is certainly not the culmination of European history, it could well be a key staging post on the way to the speedy adoption of a Constitution and as we progress towards putting in place the economic and trading frameworks that are indispensable if Europe is, at last, to enjoy growth. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in seeking solutions to the EU’s institutional reforms and the problems that have resulted from the failure of the Intergovernmental Conference, we must keep our minds on the internal market and maintaining and improving the competitiveness of our economy.
The drafting of the chemicals package was a good example of this.
Competitiveness and a healthy Europe are not a Utopian dream.
Mr Barón Crespo told us that 51% of UK citizens want this Constitution.
I can tell you, Mr President, that more than 80% of people in my country agree. &#160;&#160; Mr President, among the topics on the agenda for the forthcoming Council is the Lisbon Strategy, the Union’s Financial Perspective and the resumption of the constitutional process.
Parliament has been the mainstay of federalist policy, as acknowledged by the President-in-Office, whose prudence and perseverance we welcomed also today.
In fact, we are at an historic turning point and not just because the reunification of Europe makes a constitutional charter both more difficult and more necessary, but also because the next Parliament will see a significant generational replacement of the parliamentary groups which created the European Community.
We would therefore call on the Council, through its decisions, to rekindle enthusiasm for a more democratic Europe, united in its diversity and capable of having a common foreign and defence policy. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I wish to thank all the Members who have contributed to the debate.
It is interesting that many of the key issues raised during the debate are ones we have indicated in our preparation and on which we have decided to focus.
Mr Duff kindly drew my attention to a motion that is being prepared for adoption by the House.
I note that there are variations in the level of support for the Constitutional Treaty, but the fact that the people want a Constitutional Treaty is something that should weigh heavily in all our considerations.
The presidency's job is to try and create a space in which people can come together to negotiate and align those views.
He has spoken with me on more than one occasion about the outstanding issues.
On the institutional side, there are obvious issues to be resolved, including the questions of representation in Parliament, voting in the Council and the composition of the Commission, while detailed suggestions have been made in relation to the EU Foreign Minister and the presidency of the Council ministries.
On the non-institutional side, there are different approaches to the question of the extent of qualified majority voting in the Council.
This is not stating anything new, but these are the issues.
We will need to strike an overall balance in order to reach agreement.
The Taoiseach has said that a solution based on dual majority is the one most likely to achieve an overall consensus.
In fact, it is clear that is how the decision will be made on voting rights.
The Italian presidency made a proposal in December which built on that brought forward by the Convention and on the discussions it had with partners in the IGC.
In conclusion, I very much enjoyed today's debate.
I have to say that I was heartened by it and I am very grateful to Members for their positive words and encouragement.
I have very carefully noted the points that have been made.
I very much look forward to a successful outcome to the European Council on 25 and 26 March.
No-one seriously democratic could turn their back on such an idea, but nevertheless it is necessary to be careful because, if the impression was ever given that partisan reasons determined the appointment, that would reverberate over five years in Parliament, in the Commission, in the Council and more widely.
The consequences would be divisive, destabilising and disadvantageous for the Union.
As I understand it, in the United Kingdom referenda take place when a proposal is made for a change in the system of government, whether it involves devolution or the decision to have elected mayors, or in relation to a number of comparable issues.
The proposed constitution does not change the system of government in the United Kingdom.
I hope the House will accept this explanation without my having to read out the President's diary. &#160;&#160; I have received four motions for resolution(1) tabled in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
They have taken far greater pains – with profound consequences for their peoples – than we in the European Union have done in preparation for enlargement, as the foregoing debate has demonstrated.
At the same time, since this is the last report of this type, I have to say that the authors of the country reports from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights and Common Security and Defence Policy have shown great responsibility and commitment in the performance of their task over these past years, and, as chairman of the committee, I should like to take this opportunity to record my thanks to them.
At the same time, we should also recognise that the Baltic States have made strenuous efforts in this historic context with regard to their minorities, and that the situation of these minorities is no reason for not signing or ratifying the boundary treaties with them.
My report is therefore very optimistic.
I see no reason why accession negotiations should not be closed during the summer before the conclusion of the Irish presidency and before the mandate of the present Commission ends.
This would be a very important signal to the people of Bulgaria and a reminder that they are not forgotten at a time when ten other countries will have just acceded to the European Union.
This means that the Commission and Council must rapidly finalise the EU position on the four remaining chapters: competition, regional policy, agriculture and budget.
The draft financial package proposed by the Commission on 10 February – some EUR 4.2 billion over three years – provides an excellent basis for the final phase of negotiations.
The financial package may require adaptation in the light of changes to the overall financial perspective and I am reassured by the Commission's recognition that cooperation with Parliament, as one arm of the Union's budgetary authority, will therefore need to be intensified over the next three years.
Bulgaria's accession process has so far been characterised by commitment and good faith on all sides and a shared determination to meet the many deadlines involved.
The macro-economic indicators have been very positive in Bulgaria.
We have seen GDP growing by almost 5%, the rate of inflation dropping significantly, a surge in foreign investment and a major cut in unemployment levels.
It will take time for the effects of these improvements to be felt by large sections of the population, particularly in the regions outside of Sofia, but we can expect the upswing to gather pace as accession approaches and confidence in Bulgaria's political and economic transformation grows.
It is most important, therefore, that Bulgaria's progress and accession should not in any way be linked to or held back by any other candidate country.
The accession process for other candidate countries, or indeed the addition of new countries to the accession process, should not impact on the timetable for Bulgaria and the assessment of its progress.
But in spite of this progress, many specific problems still have to be overcome in Bulgaria.
The full and proper integration of the Roma into mainstream society in Bulgaria requires changes on both sides.
There has to be a willingness to integrate and to adopt family practices and other social attitudes that give confidence to the wider Bulgarian population.
Many of the care homes and schools are in a bad state and my own constituents in Chelmsford provide admirable support for one particular school at Berkovitsa.
As far as amendments to my report are concerned, I do not support either of the two amendments that have been tabled.
The assertion that Bulgaria is the only accession country that lacks implementation mechanisms in the field of gender equality is frankly not correct.
In conclusion, I congratulate Bulgaria and thank the Commission and the Council for all the support they have given to Bulgaria's accession process.
The resolution clearly points out that much remains to be done in Romania for political criteria to be adhered to in full.
The functioning of Parliament, the relationship with the executive and the judicial system and the overall functioning of the rule of law: all are questioned.
This point involves many issues such as corruption, which is widespread in Romania, involving administrative officials, judges, politicians and in its sum undermines the functioning application of the rule of law.
The moratorium has been ignored and set aside, meaning that many children, even babies, identified as suitable for adoption by the government, signed off by the prime minister, have in reality been taken from suitable family settings by the authorities, against their will and disregarding the wishes of their foster families whose interest in adopting those same children was denied.
But these must also and will need to be pursued most vigorously in the coming months and years.
But we hope too that the Romanian Government will give greater prominence to the needs to the lower strata of society in Romania.
Surely the preaccession process must also benefit the many millions of poverty stricken citizens.
We in the European Parliament want to help them not just to survive, but to thrive.
Only if the Romanian Government and its administration are willing to forego corruption in all its insidious forms can poverty ever be conquered in Romania.
This exceptional consensus across all parties regarding the main thrust of the report has already had a positive impact in Romania.
After the vote, I will be calling upon the Commission to report back to Parliament on how the Commissioner's team will now proceed.
I believe that such a report must come back to this Parliament before we rise for the European elections in May.
I have no doubt that other national parliaments of EU Member States hold the same responsibilities.
We all want Romania to join the European Union, but not at a price that is too high for the European citizens to pay.
In conclusion, the European Parliament is a true friend of Romania.
This strongly worded report has been compiled by Members of the European Parliament across the political divide, from all Member States and with Romania's best interests in our hearts.
Bucharest must act on the report's recommendations if Romania is to succeed in membership of the European Union.
It is a great honour for me to participate, on behalf of the Council, in your debate on enlargement today.
In less than two months, the Union will welcome ten new Member States.
It is an exciting moment for them and for us.
The countries of Central and Eastern Europe have very rapidly established stable democracies and functioning market systems.
The deep reforms carried out were monitored and reviewed closely by the Commission in its regular reports throughout the period of negotiations and most recently in its monitoring reports.
The Commission’s comprehensive monitoring reports, published last November, illustrate clearly the huge amount of work done in the new Member States.
We ask them to concentrate particularly on the areas identified by the Commission as requiring urgent attention and on the effective implementation and enforcement of measures already adopted.
The smooth and effective integration of the new Member States is one of the highest priorities of the Irish presidency.
Support among the new Member States for accession was demonstrated by the referenda which were held in nine of the ten countries throughout 2003.
In addition, the process of ratification of the Treaty of Accession has seen the parliaments of many current Member States express strong support for enlargement.
Last December, the European Council set out a very clear timeframe for the conclusion of negotiations in 2004 with both countries, subject of course to their individual state of readiness, with a view to their accession in January 2007.
Since the Commission published its draft financial package in February, intensive negotiations have been underway to secure agreement among Member States, which the presidency is endeavouring to obtain by the March session of the General Affairs and External Relations Council.
Reaching agreement on the financial package will permit the Union to carry forward the negotiations in the remaining finance-related chapters with both countries.
The Irish presidency is striving to advance progress in accession negotiations to the greatest degree possible.
The presidency will ensure that negotiations with both countries are governed by the same principles that guided negotiations with the ten new Member States, notably that of their own individual merits.
It is worth recalling that Bulgaria and Romania are part of an irreversible inclusive enlargement process.
The pace of negotiations will continue to be determined by progress on the ground and we urge Bulgaria and Romania to ensure full implementation of commitments undertaken to date.
The Union will continue to monitor very closely the performance of both countries and has noted carefully the views of Parliament, as expressed in particular in the resolutions under consideration today.
Let me be very clear about this: the political elites in the Member States ought to have done more to make public opinion in the Member States understand this great historic task.
We had to accept our historic responsibility of shaping the great change in Europe in such a way politically that it will lead to greater peace, security and prosperity for the people.
The message must be that this enlargement will not create problems but that it is the only way to solve the problems caused by the great changes that took place in Europe 14 or 15 years ago.
So far as the state of preparedness of the ten countries that will be acceding on 1 May is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we have kept you informed of the results of our monitoring.
I informed the Heads of Government of the ten countries of the results of that monitoring last November and since then we have been working closely with those countries to solve these problems.
That is true in particular for the creation of the necessary conditions for the payment of agricultural subsidies.
Perhaps we could give some thought to whether the problem really is that the ten new Member States are not intelligent enough or not energetic enough to solve the problem, or whether it is perhaps rather that the system has now become so complicated that a country that has not grown up with it is unable to satisfy our requirements.
I have come to have great doubts as to where the problem really lies, whether it is only with the future Member States or whether it is not also for a large part on our side.
Another problematic issue remaining in most countries is food safety, the modernisation of food-processing establishments and their supervision for the protection of public health.
The Commission will use the instruments it has available to solve outstanding problems realistically and responsibly.
That would be an incredibly important signal for the whole region.
I was in Cyprus for the start of the talks on 19 February and had good discussions with the UN and the leaders of the two communities.
Since then, there have been intensive political and technical contacts.
The Commission has said from the outset that it now considers the Cyprus talks a top priority and we have therefore done all in our power to support the peace process.
Let me say once again that we are in a position to transfer the results of the Cyprus talks into Community law provided those results do not run counter to the principles on which the European Union is founded, namely democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
For us, these conditions are absolutely essential.
We have put the proposal for the common financial package for Bulgaria and Romania on the table.
I have followed your debate very attentively and I admire the seriousness with which Parliament is working on the problems in Romania.
The Commission agrees with the rapporteur about the areas in which further efforts are required.
Romania also needs to be more convincing in its handling of European money and, before that, to prepare its negotiating positions better.
Baroness Nicholson raised the subject of adoption.
That is why the Commission insists that there must be a moratorium on international adoptions until legislation is in force that is fully up to international standards on child protection and until administrative structures are in place to ensure that such legislation is enforced.
The Commission, Parliament and the Member States still share the common objective of concluding negotiations in 2004, with accession in 2007.
The key to success, however, lies in Sofia and even more in Bucharest. &#160;&#160; Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Verheugen has spoken of his concern that people in today’s European Union countries are not well enough informed.
That is why we should be glad and grateful that the nations of Central Europe – and of course Cyprus and Malta – are joining our union of values under different circumstances, on the basis of human rights, democracy, the rule of law and the market economy.
We will be having the first free elections in Europe.
In the accession countries, our political friends and the people there refer to these European elections as Europe’s first free elections.
We should also be saying to our new partners in Central Europe, Malta and Cyprus: do not ask what you can get out of the European Union, but let us all in the present and future European Union ask ourselves what we can do for Europe together to make this Europe strong, to make this Europe democratic and to make this Europe carry weight in the world.
After more than 50 years of communism, these nations have had to make a tremendous effort.
But that expert explained to me that the drugs mafia, which is already making trouble in the European Union, will also expand its activities to the accession countries.
That means we must strengthen Europol and police cooperation as a whole.
A recent report by the economists Ernst [amp] Young in the United Kingdom showed the benefits the United Kingdom would receive from enlargement.
We must not relax our drive against corruption.
The culture of the brown envelope passing between ministers and senior officials has no part to play in a modern, dynamic economy.
However, the candidate countries also have to realise that by joining the European Union they are committing themselves to the standards of the European Union, such as democracy and human rights.
Such sentiments have no place in the European Union: racism and xenophobia are cancers that destroy our society.
We completely condemn these articles.
I hope the Council and the Commission also condemn those articles.
We must recognise the difficulties that some applicant countries have faced and that they have made enormous progress in a very short period of time.
That is why we have always had a very balanced approach and recognised the efforts that the candidate countries have made.
We have always said that each country should be judged on its merits and has to meet the standards or we will vote not to admit them.
We know that there are serious problems Romania has to address.
We know that past governments did not treat these negotiations seriously, but the current government does and it is making major efforts to catch up, as Baroness Nicholson herself has admitted.
The new countries have a right to criticise the European Union.
We have been very niggardly in relation to the free movement of labour.
I hope that when reality – rather than mythology – rears it head after 1 May, Member States can start to ease these restrictions.
That is what we should be aiming for on 1 May. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there are now only fifty days remaining of the long journey that began with the scenes of joy on 9 November 1989 under the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin.
In fifty days, Europe will become a united continent, and almost half a billion people will join together to work towards a better and fairer world and to defend European values and together solve common problems: pollution, cross-border crime and, in particular, trafficking in human beings, which everyone has mentioned.
With EU membership as a tempting goal, and hard work on their part, the former communist dictatorships have now become fully functioning democracies and market economies.
Potential membership has also contributed to the work of reform in Turkey and to the possibility of perhaps finally solving the Cyprus problem.
It is therefore extremely important that the Convention’s proposal is actually carried out so that the EU can take decisions and function democratically.
The cuts in social benefits hit this group particularly hard, and we hope that the Commission can continue to monitor the Roma situation in both the old and the new Member States.
Finally, I too regret that we are building walls between ourselves and the new Member States in the shape of various types of transitional rules.
I believe that the lack of popular involvement and the lack of commitment on the part of the political elite is one of the reasons why we now see more and more Member States choosing to introduce restrictions in relation to workers from the new Member States.
I am also pleased that, in the course of enlargement, many forces have been deployed in monitoring the human rights situations in the candidate countries, and I think that this is one of those areas in which we cannot allow ourselves to relax, either now or after 1 May.
We know that the Roma have problems in many of the candidate countries, and we also know that they have problems too in the present Member States.
My recommendation is that we do what we once did in the Council of Europe when that institution admitted quite a lot of new Member States, namely introduce permanent monitoring of democracy, human rights and minority rights, and not only in the new countries but in all the EU Member States.
It will be an important task to persist in monitoring these areas. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in my contribution, I should like to focus on Romania, and I have three reasons for doing so.
The first is that the present discussion on Romania is, in my view, the best possible barometer of the current enlargement round.
The most persistent problems in the new Member States have to do with the functioning of the constitutional state, the independence of the judiciary and freedom of expression of opinion.
The discussion on Romania is also of major importance for future enlargement rounds including Turkey and the Balkans, and for the reason that we cannot very well insist in Ankara and Zagreb on an improvement of human rights or the rights of minorities if, at the same time, we allow the situation in Bucharest to remain at a standstill and, in fact, to change for the worse in a number of respects.
So to my third point, which is that the situation in Romania itself remains problematic.
In her report, Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne is right to take a critical view of this.
Over the past few days, the Romanian Government has announced new reforms and accelerated the old ones.
I would urge the Romanian Government to carry on with the reforms, for if it does not, it may as well forget about joining in 2007.
This creates a national sense of public responsibility, the very foundation for Europe-wide cooperation.
This requires a considerable mutual effort, a sincere attending to each other's needs.
My group and I wish to continue on that entirely Christian course. &#160;&#160; Mr President, nobody can deny the fact that the ten future Member States have done an impressive amount of work as the day of their accession draws near, but any euphoria would be misplaced.
For example, in its recommendation with regard to this report, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has expressed its disquiet at the large-scale corruption in the agricultural sector and at the way in which subsidies will be paid.
Another problem is Cyprus.
The first amending budget, No 1, is a supplementary and amending budget that relates to enlargement.
The Commission has done a good job and on this I offer it my congratulations.
Incidentally, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has used this report to propose that its proposal for a regulation should also be adopted.
It should be remembered that security in transport, not only in maritime transport but also in air and road transport has always been one of the European Union’s top priorities and this is reflected in the legislation that has been adopted, particularly in the last decade.
This agreement is also important for the benefits it provides from the technical and legal points of view.
Another positive aspect of signing up to COTIF is the fact that the European Community does not have to contribute to the budget of this organisation, despite the fact that it does not have a say in its decisions.
This report also seeks to establish European Partnerships in order to be able to set about preparing these countries for this full integration into the European Union, and so I voted in favour of it.
This is something that clearly underlies the creation of common tax rules under the European Company Statute, ensuring that its activities are not hampered by discriminatory tax rules or by restrictions or distortions arising from the tax provisions of Member States.
Nevertheless, account must also be taken of the use of taxation as a tool for scrutinising and monitoring business activities, specifically in the field of mergers, in this case cross-border mergers, and of the company restructuring of major financial groups in the European Union.
The main aim of this directive is to extend the scope of this issue, which undermines the protection of the financial interests of the Member States, and this is clearly something that we must reject. &#160;&#160; .In line with the objectives of the Lisbon process, which provide for greater cross-border mobility for EU companies, the Commission has submitted a proposal intended to remove the obstacles relating to the methods of taxing companies in the internal market (cross-border tax obstacles).
Directive 90/434/EEC (known as the ‘Merger Directive’) already provides for a solution regarding a common system of taxation applicable to mergers, divisions, transfers of assets and exchanges of shares in cases where these involve different Member States, but the Directive needs improvement, and its scope needs to be enlarged.
This new proposal tries to amend the Merger Directive to reduce instances of international double taxation when industries enter business restructurings in which companies of different Member States are involved.
I therefore voted in favour. &#160;&#160; .In line with the objectives of the Lisbon process, which provide for greater cross-border mobility for EU companies, the Commission has submitted a proposal intended to remove the obstacles relating to the methods of taxing companies in the internal market (cross-border tax obstacles).
Directive 90/434/EEC (the so-called ‘Merger Directive’) already provides for a solution regarding a common system of taxation applicable to mergers, divisions, transfers of assets and exchanges of shares in cases where these involve different Member States, but the Directive needs improvement, and its scope needs to be enlarged.
This new proposal tries to amend the Merger Directive to reduce instances of international double taxation when industries enter business restructurings in which companies of different Member States are involved.
We are concerned that country after country is introducing transitional rules for the new Member States.
The proposals detract from the rapporteur’s much more balanced approach.
At this second reading, the Commission has seen fit to adopt most of the European Parliament’s proposals for amendments although it has not done the same for family policies, which have clearly been excluded from Community sphere of competence, and this is to be welcomed.
Its purpose is to establish a Community action programme to promote bodies active at European level in the field of youth and, more specifically, by approving an action programme, to provide an appropriate legal base for Community grants already awarded in the sector.
While the Council has always appeared decidedly reticent on the issue, it should be noted that it adopted in full, in part or in essence, 13 of the 16 Parliament amendments tabled at first reading and subsequently adopted by the Commission.
It is a further draft resolution in the field of youth, education and training, which, in common with the previous report, enjoyed the support of all committee members.
The Council reached a unanimous agreement, after acting on Parliament’s opinion.
I welcome the rapporteur’s remarks, and I therefore voted in favour.
I voted in favour of the package of amendments, which have given substance to the common position. &#160;&#160; .– This proposal strikes us as being worthy of condemnation in various respects, not only the damage it does to subsidiarity and its failure to respect the Member States’ competence in the educational sphere.
These reports dovetail nicely with yesterday’s Commission communication on 'The new generation of education and training programmes' setting out future programmes intended to replace the current Socrates, Leonardo da Vinci, Tempus, Youth, Culture 2000 and Media Plus from 2007.
These new programmes will also enable institutions in the fields of education, training and culture to improve cooperation.
Given that the Council’s official position is, however, that the agreement reached by the ministers of culture should form the basis of the common position, Parliament must amend the Council’s common position, in order that the agreement obtained by the ministers of culture corresponds to the agreement reached between Parliament and the Council at the budgetary conciliation process.
In view of both the general consensus regarding the common position and the technical nature of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur at second reading, I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; We have chosen to abstain in the vote on the Prets/Pack/Iivari reports.
The reason for this is that we consider that issues of culture and education should be dealt with at national level where the decisions are taken as close to the citizens as possible.
We object on principle to the Pack report’s choosing a small number of schools to receive a large proportion of the total education grant from the EU.
For the EU to become more effective and efficient in relation to the big cross-border issues, the politics of everyday issues such as schools, the arts and youth issues must be left to the Member States.
These issues must be considered at a level that is closer to the citizens. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, deriving its inspiration from the Greens and from the health fanatics, a majority has voted not only against the growing of tobacco but also – it is not clear why – against the cultivation of olive groves.
On the contrary, it will put a question mark over 50&#160;000 French jobs, at Sarlat, Tonneins, Lille and elsewhere.
The proposal that Parliament has made with partial decoupling is the right road because the decisions of the 2003 Luxembourg Council provided for partial decoupling for all market organisations.
Today's approval of the Daul report does nothing for European citizens' health.
It is a disappointing day for this Parliament and I am glad that 215 Members voted against this report and against tobacco subsidies. &#160;&#160; We chose to vote against all proposed amendments to the Commission proposal and against the report as a whole.
We would like to see modern European agriculture in line with the common agricultural policy reforms.
This is particularly important from an international perspective in order not to render competition on the European market more difficult for the developing countries with their agricultural products.
European support for tobacco production is neither morally nor economically defensible.
In this context, the CAP reform proposed by the Commission based on the decoupling of subsidies and production, although totally inadequate, is a step in the right direction.
Nevertheless, we do not support harsh discriminatory treatment to the detriment of tobacco growing expressly based on a ‘prohibitionist’ approach to the smoking phenomenon.
The Commission’s proposal for decoupling production aid, which has now also been approved by Parliament, is unacceptable and does not augur well for the discussions at the Council of Agriculture Ministers.
This proposal will have a devastating socio-economic impact and will lead to desertification, particularly in the poorest regions of EU Member States, such as in Portugal.
In the case of cotton, the threshold for aid is set at a preposterous 360&#160;hectares, in spite of the potential benefits of the Alqueva project and of the conversion of barren areas into irrigated land.
In the case of olive oil, the financial package and methodology that have been established undermine both the modernisation of Portuguese olive groves and the new plantation rights set at 30&#160;000 hectares, which were agreed in 1998; this despite the intended savings of EUR&#160;113 million.
Our objective, with regard to a proposal which would also have endangered the Italian position of oil in certain disadvantaged areas, was an agreement which provides for a flexible 60% partial decoupling of aid, with the States having the opportunity to increase this percentage if necessary.
This is why I voted for the Daul report. &#160;&#160; I have voted against all the amendments and, in the final vote, against the report since we are of the opinion that the EU is wrong to continue with, and give more aid to, tobacco plantations, olive groves and cotton production than was indicated in the Commission’s original proposal.
We think that these subsidies should be phased out and the taxpayers’ money used more appropriately.
We would like to see modern European agriculture in line with the common agricultural policy reforms.
This is particularly important from an international perspective in order not to render competition on the European market more difficult for the developing countries with their agricultural products.
It was essential for the Council to act on Parliament’s opinion in this area, but Parliament has not proposed effective mechanisms for regulating the market and has accepted the end of production aid.
The Commission proposal should hardly even constitute the basis for debate in the European Parliament and should be rejected in its entirety, because it creates a situation which is far worse than the current situation and does not under any circumstances satisfy olive producers.
We voted against the report, despite its individual positive points, because it accepts the mid-term review for olive oil as a foregoing conclusion.
I therefore voted in favour. &#160;&#160; .– I am voting for this report.
We have here a proposal for a regulation to replace Regulation (EEC) No 827/68, which will cease being in force in November 2004.
It seeks a better classification of the various kinds of olive oil, the prohibition of blends of olive oil and other oils or fats, compulsory indication on labels of the origin of olives, with oil origin consequently being determined on the basis of the tree and the place of harvesting and not the place of pressing and processing, and greater transparency in the TPA.
Furthermore, all producers in the sector have for some time been calling for clearer and more transparent legislation.
We hope the results will meet their expectations. &#160;&#160; I have voted against all the amendments and, in the final vote, against this report since we are of the opinion that the EU is wrong to continue with and give more aid to olive groves than was indicated in the Commission’s original proposal.
We think that these subsidies should be phased out and the taxpayers’ money used more appropriately.
These countries are even less well placed than regions within the EU to solve the transitional problems that arise if part of the production is stopped.
Parliament’s proposal means not only greater subsidies than those proposed by the Commission but also places even more specific demands on products and necessitates classification systems.
This may be commendable, but is often a way to protect against outside competition, in other words it is a hidden trade barrier that renders free trade difficult. &#160;&#160; . – An insult to and mockery of women is the only way to describe the European Parliament resolution on International Women’s Day.
That is why we MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece abstained from the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy on the Guantanamo detainees quite rightly identifies the infringement of international law and human rights.
It is therefore incorrect for the report to invoke the Geneva Convention’s rules governing the treatment of prisoners of war as being synonymous with the rights of the Guantánamo prisoners. &#160;&#160; .– This recommendation, which had its origin in an initiative in which my Parliamentary Group took part, was pressing and necessary, although I do not agree with the way all its points have been formulated.
It is pressing and necessary that the United States authorities should put an immediate end to this flagrant violation of the most basic human rights and of human dignity, in breach of all international standards and law, particularly regarding access to a fair trial and the prohibition of arbitrary detention.
It is pressing and necessary that the governments of the countries of the European Union should stop acquiescing in this situation and adopt a firm, clear position, denouncing and condemning this unacceptable situation and demanding that the United States authorities should guarantee these detainees immediate access to justice in accordance with international standards and law. &#160;&#160; – Hardly anyone but this House is showing such passionate interest in the conditions under which prisoners are being kept at Guantanamo, or showing such compassion for them.
The situation of those detained at Guantanamo – an issue that, it should be added, is strictly a matter for the United States – strikes me as less deserving of interest than that of the families of the victims, about whom there is less concern. &#160;&#160; .– The question of the ‘detention, treatment and trial of certain non-citizens in the war against terrorism’ that is occurring in Guantanamo Bay has clearly been taken up by certain European sectors as a political issue, more to hinder the smoothing of transatlantic relations than to uphold the fundamental values of the rule of law and full respect for international humanitarian standards.
The tone of the report seeks to fuel not only the rifts that occurred in Europe at the time of the Iraq war but also animosity against the US.
For my part, I too believe ‘that the transatlantic relationship is invaluable and could be a formidable force for good in the world as stated by the European Council only if basic human rights – such as the right to fair trial and the prohibition on arbitrary detention – are clearly respected as universal and non-negotiable and remain the core of values and common interest that the EU and the US maintain.’ What underlies the report, however, is the fact that the demands made of the US in this report are being made because the presumed terrorists are being held in Guantanamo, comfortably far away from Europe.
The Czech Republic’s successes over the last few years are beyond dispute.
The Czech Government should be encouraging victim support programmes here.
I live in the Elbe valley in Saxony, which was flooded in summer 2002, and I know what I am talking about.
Finally, I want to talk about the Czech parliament’s intention of honouring the former Czechoslovak President Edvard Beneš.
When we have spent years dealing with the matter of the Beneš decrees here in Parliament and I found a compromise formula that was adopted by an overwhelming majority of the plenum in April last year, I find it insensitive and provocative of the Czechs now, just before the country is to join the EU, to be passing a law that not only evokes the past but actually honours it.
I was very interested in Estonia even before I became this Parliament’s rapporteur for its accession, and I have visited it regularly for 11 years.
I am therefore firmly convinced that we are not just being polite when we say in the report that ‘the European Parliament stresses the determination and continuity in efforts made by the Estonian authorities in carrying out the preparations for accession throughout the whole period of transition’.
I can see – now he has just gone out – I could see former foreign minister Toomas Hendrik Ilves in the House and I would like to thank him on behalf of all our other Estonian colleagues, for that determination, which was shown by all political camps in Estonia.
Impressive personalities, like – among others – the former President Lennart Meri, or Mart Laar, who was twice Prime Minister, have done much in the past to point the country towards Europe.
I am looking for clear answers from the Council of Ministers when on 5 March Russian minister Sergei Ivanov repeats the USSR’s – and sadly also today’s Russia’s – propaganda lie in ‘’ – that is, that the USSR did not invade the Baltic countries, but was summoned to their aid.
Such propaganda and fairy tales should no longer be spread here, and the European Union must make that clear to Russia. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am glad to be able to say, in my capacity as rapporteur on Cyprus, that the Commission’s follow-up report confirms that the country has, to a large extent, aligned itself with the in most areas.
It can join the European Union only subject to the condition that it should adopt a constitution conferring upon it a single international personality and functioning federal institutions.
The first is the plan for Greece and Turkey to intervene in the bilateral negotiations on 22 March.
This will give Turkey the opportunity to remove what is, according to the Commission, a serious obstacle to its own prospective accession, namely the absence of a solution to the Cyprus problem.
The referendum on 22 April could provide a second safety net in that, if the majority of Turkish Cypriots vote in favour of the Annan plan and of accession, the ghosts of the past can be banished to the archives of history.
I was pleased that the Latvian Government’s representative in Brussels and the country’s former chief negotiator considers my work thorough and sound and has confirmed to me that the report correctly identifies the country’s problems.
I would at this point like to express my thanks for the intensive discussions with the embassy and other ministries and state bodies.
The information they provided helped me to gain a realistic picture of the situation in the country.
When I visited the country, I also met a committed minister of justice, and I am convinced that with her the reforms are in good hands and will bring success quicker than assumed in the Commission report.
I can say the same about agricultural policy.
I was also pleased to find that my report triggered a political debate about what is probably the country’s greatest social problem, how to better integrate the Russian-speaking population.
We cannot accuse the Council of Europe and the OSCE High Commissioner of belonging to a particular political family.
When we arrived in the summer of 1999 at the start of our term of office, we arrived together with the Helsinki decision marking the unification of the procedure for integrating the new countries, the single wave.
These will inevitably accentuate the differences between wealthier and less prosperous regions and will lead to an increase in the population living in the less disadvantaged regions.
My hope is, Mr President, that from that moment onwards we shall all – current and new Member States alike – have the opportunity to work together and exercise our joint responsibility in the development of the European Union.
This joint responsibility implies maintaining and even strengthening the principle of economic and social cohesion.
From this viewpoint, we see enlargement as a contract providing mutual benefits for both the new countries of the Union and the current ones whose income levels still justify the assignment of Community development aid.
Hungary, like all the other acceding countries, will at last be taking its well-deserved place as a European Union Member State.
As rapporteur for that country, I therefore call on you all to support the Brok report, which embodies years of effort and hard work and ushers in a new era in the life of the European Union. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as this is Parliament’s last report before the historic date on which the EU is to be enlarged, I would like to make a statement in my capacities as co-chairman of the EU-Czech Republic Joint Parliamentary Committee and as rapporteur for Malta.
The only comment I can make on this is that I would see a more sensitive handling of history and of such historical figures as Edvard Beneš as being desirable.
For someone like me who lived through – albeit in the privileged position of foreign correspondent – the hard years of the communist dictatorship and who then went back to cover Poland as rapporteur, this is an important, and I would even go so far as to say, an emotional moment.
I would never have imagined in those years that Poland and the other former communist countries would have been restored to democracy and free and effective economic development in such a short space of time.
I believe that this is the last time that I will talk about Poland in this Chamber and I would like to send my thanks to all those who, both here and there, in Brussels and in Warsaw – I can see Commissioner&#160;Verheugen here – have contributed to healing this wound in our continent.
Romania still has a long way to go, but it is doing all it can to come into line with Europe and prepare itself.
We criticised Romania for its delays; it reacted by trying to put its house in order.
Now of course it needs to be watched, spurred on and monitored, but it should also be encouraged, and this is why the reprobative tone which Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne used in her report was excessive.
In foreign policy, the issue of relations with Croatia remains open: there has recently been news of the Croatian parliament’s ratification of the agreement on the distribution of the assets of the succession countries of the former Yugoslavia, an agreement signed in Vienna in 2001, but until now only signed by the Croatians.
The general climate between Zagreb and Ljubljana has, however, recently improved and the values of security, stability and prosperity to which Slovenia aspires are those of the European Union.
Entry into the EU is recognition of the road taken towards modernising the country while respecting Community values and principles.
I realise that this report is not the most important one, and may be the least important of all the reports we have produced about that country over the past six or seven years.
I have monitored that country for years and there is no mistaking the progress it has made in many areas.
Let this be a compliment to a small country, the last to gain its independence and whose political problems before the election of 1998 meant that it was also included late in the countries with which negotiations were taking place.
It is up to the government in Bratislava to do what is necessary; if not that country will have a problem after 1 May, with all the implications that this entails.
I could not agree more with what Commissioner Verheugen stated this morning: if a problem of that kind occurs, we, in the European Union, cannot resort to any compromises, but need to have the nerve to act firmly.
However, I join him in hoping that the problems will have been resolved by 1 May.
This particularly applies to Roma in some parts of the country, particularly eastern Slovakia, where there are hardly any jobs for them.
I do, however, object to amendments which accept the link between the looting of shops and the problems surrounding social security.
Besides, the whole integration procedure, as the report makes clear, speeds up progress by these countries with reforms in their economic, administrative and political environment and this is the biggest gain for their people.
In particular, I should like to express the satisfaction of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market at the fact that these countries are aligning with the in the fields of company law, accounting rules, customs law and movements of capital and, more generally, at the noteworthy results achieved as a whole in the field of transposing legislation into their national law.
At the same time, however, I would express the Committee’s regret at the delay appearing in certain countries in the fields of trade, cross-border transactions and recognition of professional qualifications.
If it transpires from the inspection carried out in November 2003, that all the recommendations of the Atomic Question Group have been carried out, the Commission can consider postponing the closure of Kozloduy 3 and 4 for a little while longer.
If, however, this is not the case, the Commission needs to adhere to the agreed time schedule for the closure of units 3 and 4.
Despite all the Romanian Government's efforts, we have to conclude that, to this day, that country has no functioning market economy.
In practice, much more is yet to be done in order to eradicate corruption and implement structural reforms in a tangible and consistent manner.
We therefore very much welcome the proposal in the Brok committee's report for a re-orientation exercise and, at the same time, for more attention to be given to problems relating to the rule of law.
I have to say that all those countries have made unbelievable efforts to make progress in the social sphere on various fronts.
They have a number of trump cards which they can play and about which far too little is known, certainly in our countries, where people often think that the new Member States are still at an early stage of development.
Moreover, the population in the ten new countries is younger than in the 15 current Member States.
The phenomenon of an ageing population will therefore take a little longer to make its presence felt.
In short, those countries have great potential in terms of human resources.
Unemployment in the acceding countries is high and opportunities for employment low.
An extreme case is Poland, where youth unemployment is 41%.
Moreover, in seven of the ten candidate Member States, youth unemployment in 2003 rose compared to the year before.
It is therefore obvious that those countries, in accordance with the European employment strategy, should develop active and sustainable employment policy.
Purchasing power and pre-tax income are far below the EU average, but they have increased – even considerably – while they fell in our countries.
Poverty in the ten countries concerned affects 40% of the working population.
Social security should be developed more effectively.
Going beyond that, the Social Affairs Committee urges the new Member States, in their political agendas, to give more attention to human capital.
In a European Union of 25 states, there is no place for retrograde developments or social inertia, which would pave the way for new conflict.
As members of the EU they will, just like the rest of us, gain full freedom of movement to promote increased solidarity and strength throughout the whole Union.
I therefore regret that, in the existing Member States, we seem to be so afraid of the workforce coming here.
This freedom of movement would mean a necessary injection into our slightly stagnated labour markets.
Agriculture is more important in these countries than in the existing Member States.
Romania has been in a more difficult situation and has further to go in order to catch up but, even this morning, we have received reports that things are happening, and of course we must recognise this and approve of it.
The candidate countries have their responsibility, but the existing Member States must also take responsibility.
Having tried to follow the developments in Central and Eastern Europe for almost 40 years, I feel sincere joy at being able to welcome these countries both on 1 May 2004 and during 2007. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what I would like to say, as draftsperson of my Committee’s opinion, is that, where regional policy and the Structural Funds are concerned, most of the countries should, by the time they accede, already be in a position to transpose core areas of the .
It is to be regretted, though, that all of them need to make greater efforts in such important areas as financial management and financial control.
In the transport sector, it is the failure of the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary to make progress in road transport that is most disappointing of all.
There are a few aspects that I, as draftsman of its opinion, would like to highlight.
In the field of transport, Romania is making considerable progress.
Nevertheless, privatisation and restructuring in this sector deserve special attention.
While it cannot be denied that Romania is making progress, there is still a long way to go on the road to accession.
It calls further for the strengthening of coordination and cooperation between ministries, as well as with relevant agencies and other stakeholders.
It considers that direct efforts are needed in effective cooperation and communication, mainly between central and regional level, where we consider that there are problems, as well as in the consolidation and completion of institutional structures at both central and regional level.
Finally, it is clear that, as far as our committee is concerned, it believes that Bulgaria has the capacity to join our Union on schedule. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, it is clear that International Women’s Day has already been forgotten, as the rapporteur for the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities is, of course, the last to speak.
After all, many countries that have been Member States for years are still having problems with properly transposing the directives on equal rights and opportunities for women and men, something that is, let me add, apparent from the Commission’s latest report on the Lisbon strategy for the Spring Summit.
Instead, we should be doing everything possible to help it, and countries like it, and to encourage it and them to proceed further along the right path, on which they have encountered these difficulties, so that – as we hope – this wonderful European country can accede to our European Union in 2007.
The same applies to child protection, where there is certainly still much to be done. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to speak about the report on Romania.
It seems to me that this report is not very balanced, that it is inaccurate and inconsistent with what our Parliament has maintained to date.
Firstly: the issue of children in institutions and the issue of adoption.
Above all, claims that have not been proven should be excluded, if we do not want to offend a friendly country and if we do not want our Parliament’s credibility to be lost.
I should not like to think that these hurried and ungenerous judgments were influenced by the cost of enlargement to include countries of the Carpathia and the Balkans.
I believe that 2007 must remain the target for Romania and Bulgaria.
This is not a certainty but an objective, even if –&#160;as Commissioner Verheugen said&#160;–&#160;the keys to this success lie above all with Sofia and Bucharest. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Union is now making its biggest political decision ever, because the difference between the new and the current Member States is greater than in previous rounds of enlargement.
It is also connected with the rights of employees, and consequently, the tripartite model in labour relations should also become standard practice in the new Member States as quickly as possible.
The main partners in the enlarged Europe will be the United States of America and Russia.
When enlargement has taken place, the Constitution will not yet be in effect, decisions will not have been taken on future financial frameworks, and the outgoing Commission will have taken the Council to court.
Two thirds of the Members of Parliament will have left even before the Commissioners.
If the agreement on the Constitution is not adopted this year, that will become more and more difficult in the years to come.
The objective is both a political and a formal unification, as well as a real levelling out of the major economic and political differences that have divided Europe.
In spite of the success of enlargement and of the ever greater importance of the EU in people’s everyday lives, it is still a fact that we politicians are not good enough at delivering the message to the people.
Once more, therefore: in our political work, higher priority must continue to be given to informing and communicating with the people.
It cannot, therefore, be repeated often enough: a successful EU of 25 Member States requires the politicians and the institutions to be in dialogue with the people. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, progress has indeed been made, but it is nevertheless an open secret that, in various accession countries, public enthusiasm for the EU has waned, and the European elections will demonstrate this.
Unemployment in Central and Eastern Europe is at a lamentably high level, never before has the gulf between rich and poor been so wide, social tensions are increasing and corruption is rampant.
Although individual countries have been given warnings about their treatment of the Roma, it is clear that the EU must take a Community approach, or else the problem will prove unsolvable.
This is the work of the evil genius of stagnant anti-Communism, which is capable of poisoning the atmosphere not only in this House but also in the acceding states. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the remarks by our rapporteurs illustrate that the acceding countries have made major efforts, but that they still have a great deal to do in terms of the fight against corruption, fraud and human trafficking, and particularly in terms of the application of legislation.
The most painful paragraphs in various reports pertain to the Roma, who are being discriminated against, disadvantaged and treated as second-class citizens everywhere, including in the current Member States.
That is why I should like to call for more effective measures not only in Slovakia but also elsewhere in order to improve the plight of the Roma.
Like the rapporteur, I am concerned about the possibility of social problems such as a rural exodus and increased unemployment, and stress the importance of semi-subsistence farming in the accession countries.
This situation is particularly worrying given the level of corruption in some candidate countries.
It should be added that, since 2001, the ten accession countries have received around EUR&#160;500&#160;million per year through the SAPARD funds, for the sole purpose of adapting their agriculture to their rural areas.
This is why I will vote against the report. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in the minute I have available, I would like to talk about Romania and the Nicholson report.
This report began in committee with an approach that was appropriate right to the end and with which I and the rest of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy were satisfied.
We must send out a message that is resolute but, at the same time, full of hope to the people and the government of Romania.
Romania must proceed with greater earnestness and with greater rigour on the road of reforms, but it must get on the accession train, the European Union train.
We cannot send out a message of gloom that excludes Romania from this prospect.
It is important that our family extends to Romania, a country that needs the European Union and that needs and, in certain sectors, also wants democracy despite the existing problems.
Let us, therefore, adopt this new version of the Nicholson report with conviction, hoping that it encourages the structural reforms that are necessary for Romania’s entry into the European Union in 2007. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to focus on the progress Romania has made in terms of compliance with the Copenhagen criteria.
I would like to highlight two issues.
Firstly, I believe we should acknowledge that Romania is taking steps and making efforts to comply fully with these criteria.
The fight against corruption, as the Commissioner mentioned, to guarantee the independence of the justice system – and fundamental legislative reforms, contained in the new Constitution, are underway in this regard – press freedom, the reform of public administration, etc.
Whatever justified criticism may have been levelled at them, the fact is that these countries have, over recent years, worked very hard at their own modernisation and at the evolution of their societies.
All the same, I do believe that there are certain problems to which we have to pay particular attention: corruption has already been mentioned, as has crime.
Recent weeks and months have shown us the problems that there are in this area – with the Roma and Sinti in Slovakia, for example.
You can trace something of a logical progression linking these disturbances with cuts in taxes, cuts in expenditure, and cuts in social spending.
I do not want to say that this single problem is the only example, and the same is true, of course, in other countries.
Bearing in mind that the total number of Roma and Sinti in Europe adds up to some 6 or 8 million, I believe that fact very much justifies the widespread desire – which I share – for a Commissioner whose area of competence would include the integration of Europe’s minorities, especially of the Roma and Sinti.
In any case, I would ask the Commission, both before and after 1 May, to give a great deal of attention to issues of social integration, especially that of the Roma and Sinti.
I know that Commissioner Verheugen is very well aware of how important this issue is, and I believe that the whole Commission, in the coming weeks, months and indeed years, should address it together. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union is concluding its process of enlargement and I believe it is no coincidence that today’s debate has been held in parallel with the follow-up debate of the Intergovernmental Conference which should lead to a European Constitution, because I believe that the two should be inseparable.
In the one minute available to me I will refer to the report presented by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne on Romania.
I believe it is a very well executed and exhaustive report on the problems existing in that country.
It highlights the need for that country to make progress in compliance with the law and to combat corruption, as well as the need to strengthen the rule of law and respect for minorities.
With regard to the problem of abandoned children and adoptions, I believe the Commissioner’s response has been clear: the well-being of children must govern this process.
I believe that the report can be a positive stimulus so that Romania will continue along the path it has taken. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, as regards Slovenia, some serious issues remain unresolved.
These pertain firstly to the material and non-material compensation for the victims of the exodus caused by the terrible ethic cleansing which was still in its final phase in 1975 with the forced migration from some areas, such as Piran, Koper and Pristina (the former zone B) and, secondly, to the historic memory of the and to the unresolved issue of protecting cultural minorities from Italy and the Veneto.
In Europe, protecting minorities is not optional.
Slovenia is finally taking practical note of this and knows that those who are defending and proclaiming their own culture in that country, as is their right, are motivated by legitimate intentions and aims and are, so to speak, under the moral and political protection of the European Union.
I also express my solidarity with the just demands that, at the same time, have been made of the Czech Republic by those that protect the rights of the Sudeten refugees, victims of another horrendous ethic cleansing which is stillastainuponEuropean communism. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today, we are holding the concluding debate on the accession of ten candidates to the European Union.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wholeheartedly endorses the report by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne, which we see as an important contribution to highlighting any problems Romania is left with, particularly in a bid to meet the political criteria of Copenhagen.
This is Romania's own responsibility: the key to success lies in Bucharest, as the Commissioner has already stated.
This list of problems has prompted the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy to send a unanimous warning to Bucharest.
The tone was clear enough to wake up the Romanian Government.
Much more constructive was the more recent list by Romania's Prime Minister stating tasks yet to be done, as well as the recent Cabinet reforms, in order to give the negotiations with the EU more chance of success.
We are very pleased that the Council and Commission share Parliament's concern.
As the prospect of enlargement on 1 May instils fear of the unknown among the European citizens – as the Commissioner has already pointed out – we should apply the greatest possible care in dealing with the later accessions.
The public must be really convinced that the candidate Member States offer them the same certainties as the 15 current Member States.
Corruption, about which humanitarian organisations in our countries receive many complaints, the freedom of press, also the subject of many complaints, problems with the judiciary and child care: these are the major points that need to be discussed and resolved as a matter of priority.
The many letters they have sent indicate that this approach has sparked a great deal of enthusiasm among the citizens in Romania.
We have to make it clear that we will now work even harder with all our Romanian partners to conclude the outstanding chapters and to resolve the country’s problems.
That is the message that we must send to Romania today and when we vote on the report tomorrow: we will help you, but you must do the work in your own country yourselves; it is you who must fulfil the Copenhagen criteria.
This has to be expressed in more positive terms: it is still possible that Romania will become a Member State in 2007, provided that the problems with which we are familiar can be dealt with, provided that there is an independent justice system, that corruption is combated, that the administration is efficient and that minorities are integrated.
The reference to child marriages in item 19 has to be qualified.
The practice of children being forced into marriage is not universal in Romania, but it does occur in some Roma families.
Today, the situation of Bulgaria is basically quite close to that of Portugal just prior to accession, with the same merits and the same potential for development, particularly in terms of tourism.
This strong message has today been taken on board at the highest level by Romania and we warmly welcome the personal commitments from the Prime Minister, Adrian&#160;Nastase, especially as they were accompanied by very concrete initial measures, which will certainly speed up the reforms that are still needed in order for the country to conform to the Copenhagen criteria.
We should not forget that, to date, the Commission has been able to close twenty-two of the thirty-one chapters that it had to examine and that considerable progress in the fundamental areas of reform of the judicial system and in combating corruption should follow very quickly after the major cabinet reshuffle under way.
There is a feeling of unease when you see the indulgence of the report on Bulgaria and the severity of the one on Romania, when the two countries have a great deal in common.
Baroness Nicholson did a significant amount of work over several months to monitor the case of Romania, and I welcome her efforts.
However, the close attention that she pays to particularly painful problems, such as adoptions, led her to make very harsh judgments, so harsh, in fact, that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy has already significantly amended the original text, which I welcome.
Other amendments that we have tabled will, I hope, be adopted in plenary.
Finally, the resolution before us contains blatant contradictions.
I regret this, because Romania, which faces huge problems and massive underdevelopment, needs to be understood, criticised when it deserves to be, but also advised and encouraged as to the path that we wish to see it follow and which will lead it towards becoming one of us. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the European Parliament agrees totally with the political assessment of the Commission and of the Commissioner with responsibility for enlargement, Günter Verheugen, that a failure to reach agreement on Cyprus could pose a serious obstacle to Turkey’s ambitions to become a member of the European Union.
Parliament maintains that the Cyprus question thus amounts to a major stumbling block in Turkey’s path to accession and a political test of its European resolve.
Parliament hopes that the Turkish political authorities fully understand its significance.
We cannot tolerate the European Parliament accepting a country that is occupying a Member State of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I join with others in warning that substantial change still needs to occur in Romania but that we reject the language of rejection.
We should recognise the progress Romania has made in strengthening the Court of Audit, in judicial reform and in the introduction of the new Constitution, and we should not rule out a successful close to the negotiations this year.
Despite efforts to reduce the number of children in institutions, Save the Children Romania says that no attention is paid to combating trafficking for sexual exploitation.
I fully support the rapporteur's view that the challenge is not simply one of closing chapters in negotiations but still one of dealing with endemic problems of corruption and political reform in order to meet the Copenhagen criteria for democracy and human rights.
Finally, I am delighted that people from my own region in the east of England are linked through a network called Praxis with the Arad County Council in Romania.
We must not lose sight of our aspiration, which is not simply about completing a political process of European enlargement but about bringing the people of Romania together with all those we represent. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, throughout the years in which we in this House busied ourselves with resolutions on the enlargement process, I sometimes found it disconcerting when we made quite detailed and precise demands of the countries concerned, imposing on them requirements with which we ourselves did not comply and telling them that this, this and that had to be utterly changed.
So I found Commissioner Verheugen’s comment on agricultural policy this morning very helpful.
With the pan-European picnic in August 1989, when everything was hanging in the balance, Hungary sent Europe a vital signal, and they have always done very well in fulfilling the criteria, so that they could actually be an example to the others.
Not a few Heads of State or Government would like to have things split half and half between government and opposition; perhaps the German Chancellor would in his present situation.
There remain only 51 days before the historic date of 1 May 2004, on which the European Union will grow to become a Union of 25 Member States.
This particular enlargement of the European Union will be accomplished on Workers’ Day, a date symbolising our need to face up to the challenge of giving the Union of 25 states economic and social cohesion.
It is no less significant that, the internal policy of the enlarged Europe being a work of peace, we are developing it into a real, outward-looking common European peace policy.
There is now a substantial chance of the 30-year-long division of Cyprus being brought to an end even before 1 May.
We must bring about a united Cyprus, in which all Cypriots can live together in peace, and which can play a full part as a Member State of the EU. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are analysing and describing the final steps on the road to the peaceful and comprehensive reordering of our continent.
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania deserve particular credit for having been able, along the road to freedom, to regain their independence as states.
Future stronger and more extensive cooperation with Russia will depend, above all, on Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania putting down deep roots in the European Union.
This cooperation is a strategic challenge for the European Union as a whole and the new Member States will have an indispensable contribution to make to it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, when speaking on Estonia earlier, I praised, in their absence, its former Prime Minister Mart Laar and its Foreign Minister Ilves for their consistent policy of reform at home and, in foreign affairs, their aligning of their country with Europe.
As shadow rapporteur for Lithuania, I was particularly pleased by the high degree of approval – over 91% – in the referendum on accession to the EU, but also by the country’s high level of economic growth in recent years, which alone has made it possible to raise the funding that is needed if the social problems of transformation are to be solved.
If the criticism is justified, then it is equally right that we should express our support and our willingness to help, but the main thing is that the work has to be done in the country itself, and sometimes the clearing-out has to start right at the top. &#160;&#160; Mr President, 1 May 2004 will finally signify the end of the cold war and seal the reuniting of a continent that we failed to protect from Communist tyranny.
The EU, a body of 25 states, will soon have a population of 455&#160;million and be the biggest economic zone in the world, even bigger than the United States of America.
In particular, we observed huge improvements in human rights, including minority rights, such as for the Roma communities and the gay community.
Security is also improving for all our continent, as all acceding countries bar Malta and Cyprus, which I particularly welcome as British Commonwealth states, will shortly be joining Nato.
However, we in the United Kingdom are right to bring in measures to prevent benefit tourism, whilst at the same time welcoming those seeking to work in our country.
I am confident that the strong warning in the report on Romania will provide the incentive for its government to drive through the necessary reforms to satisfy all the Copenhagen criteria in time for Romania to join in due course, as scheduled.
There is still work to be done, but a huge amount of work has already been achieved.
Parliament has addressed this issue in a most effective manner.
I wish to express my gratitude to Members for the role they have played in the very important task of communicating to the citizens of their countries the unique and extraordinarily important moment we have reached in terms of enlargement.
I agree also with what Commissioner Verheugen said this morning on the need to send out a positive message – and it is a remarkably positive message.
The presidency has full confidence in the Commission's ability to manage a smooth transition to membership of the accession states.
The Commission has the sole competence among the institutions to carry out the task of ensuring the proper functioning across all policies.
The presidency intends, in partnership with these countries and with the Commission, to ensure the application of the fundamental principle of this enlargement process and in particular the principle that each negotiation will be based on the merits of the individual case.
The European Union will continue to monitor very closely the commitments made and the effective implementation of the in order to guide both countries in their preparation for membership.
The presidency urges both countries to continue carrying out these preparations energetically.
We are determined to do as much as possible to carry out the mandate of the European Council of December and to finish the negotiations this year.
Welcoming both countries into the Union in January 2007 remains the European Union's objective.
We welcome the agreement of the parties to resume the negotiation process for a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem within the framework of the Secretary-General's mission of good offices.
The Council fully supports Secretary-General Annan's efforts for the conclusion of an agreement, and we remain ready to accommodate the terms of a settlement, in line with the principles on which the Union is founded.
Minister Cowen reiterated the assurance to Minister Gül that, if the European Council decides in December that Turkey fulfils the Copenhagen political criteria, the EU is committed to opening negotiations.
A number of other issues were dealt with, but I want to return to one issue – the question of free movement and migration.
The study by the European Commission and the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions shows that, even under conditions of full freedom of movement, migration from all the new Member States to all current Member States is likely to be about 1% of the working-age population of the new Member States over the next five years.
I mention this point in particular because I know from the domestic debates on referenda in Ireland how easy it is for people of ill intent to misrepresent what in fact is the position.
The reality is that Europe should be a Europe that welcomes the ten accession states and that we should fully meet all our obligations to the ten states.
In conclusion, I wish to thank the Members.
It has been a very thought-provoking and thorough debate.
I think we also agree that people in the new Member States have shown a willingness to change, a willingness to go along with far-reaching reforms that some of us might like to see in our own countries.
I wish to thank the Presidency, which, in close cooperation with the Commission, is driving this process forward, and, where there are things still to be done, is doing them together with us.
It was in fact the Commission that raised this issue in the first place, and the Lithuanian Government has since responded by taking appropriate action.
To those Members of this House who have spoken on the subject of the Roma, I would like to say that this is indeed one of the great unresolved issues in Europe, but that we cannot expect the accessions to produce a solution to it.
Let me conclude by returning to the subject of Romania.
Our line was that we needed more flexibility here, that this would be in Romania’s interests, and that it would be sufficient for us to conclude negotiations by the end of 2005 in order for accession to take place in 2007.
I cannot do other than encourage the Romanians to continue acting in such a decisive way, and then, I think, we may yet reach our destination. &#160;&#160; That concludes the joint debate.
The vote will be tomorrow at noon. &#160;&#160; In this joint debate on enlargement, it has once again been said that the constitutional treaty prepared by the Convention would provide a ‘framework to enable the enlarged Union to work effectively’, and that it should be adopted as quickly as possible, even before 1 May 2004.
The reality is in fact the opposite.
The draft Constitution is entirely unsuitable for an enlarged Europe for two reasons: First of all, it maps out a State structure that is much too heavy and too rigid for a diversity of countries with very differing concerns.
In an enlarged Europe, we in fact need a streamlined and flexible cooperation structure, which allows for a variety of forms much more easily than the current draft Constitution.
Secondly, the draft Constitution provides for European institutions mainly functioning by majority, which is difficult to conceive in an enlarged Europe with no national safeguard clause.
It is clear that Ireland, for example, has prospered as an independent EU Member State and it is fitting that in its role as EU presidency, Ireland will preside over this, the largest ever single enlargement of the EU.
At first reading, Parliament approved the main points of this proposed revision of the guidelines for the trans-European networks, in accordance with the compromise which had been reached.
Meanwhile, the Council has reached a political agreement on the text which combines both proposals, which, let us remember, represent the design of the trans-European networks in an enlarged Europe, a Europe of 27 Member States.
I must say that the Commission's proposal today includes the updating of the priority projects, but also – and I would like to stress this point – of the organisational resources aimed at improving their planning, monitoring, coordination, funding and, therefore, their realisation, at European level.
Firstly, I would like to point out that, on the basis of some 100 proposals presented by the States, the high-level group recommended reviewing the projects which conform to the following criteria: they are located on important European routes, they are subject to firm commitment on the part of the States in question, with a closed timetable for completion, they offer advantages in terms of aspects such as environmental protection, modal balance and territorial cohesion.
We must remember that in that high-level group, chaired by former Commissioner Karel van Miert, not only were all the States of the Union + 10 + 2 represented, but also the European Investment Bank, whose opinions in relation to the economic aspects of the projects have been very useful.
I must say that the aid for launching the new lines which would constitute the motorways of the sea would be restricted to what is absolutely necessary in order to guarantee the viability of economic relations between two States which jointly decide to establish one of these regular interconnections as an alternative to other modes of transport.
The complete list of priority projects – three of which have been completed – represents an investment of EUR 224&#160;000 million between now and 2020.
But that is nothing more than the really essential part, the tip of the iceberg, because we must remember that the total cost of the projects for the trans-European networks for the Union of 27 States is more than 600&#160;000 million.
The Commission also proposes a procedure for declaration of European interest which will mean encouraging the States to respect the timetable for the works listed in the proposal, and to integrate the assessment procedures divided between different States.
In other words, the ultimate objective is to establish single and coordinated evaluation procedures between two States, which will enable border areas to make simultaneous progress and, where necessary, the border regions to be better coordinated.
I would like to conclude by saying that it is still possible to adopt this proposal during this legislature – although it is true that we have very little time – and it is therefore necessary that the approach of the three institutions is based on cooperation and the will to make progress and to demonstrate a degree of flexibility.
As far as I am aware, the current differences are not really so great and I believe it is possible to reach an agreement – I would insist – before the end of this legislature.
The Community is set for enlargement in May, bringing under its umbrella another 75&#160;million citizens, while at the same time huge growth is predicted in our major transport networks over the next decade.
This more than ever is the right time to concentrate our efforts and bring this programme to a timely conclusion.
We have a great opportunity to tie up this decision quickly, a mere three months after Parliament first debated this revised document.
Whilst I firmly believe that Parliament can achieve most of what it wants within the body of this proposal, there clearly remain a number of issues on which we must all exercise good judgment and flexibility.
I would urge all Members to come together to successfully conclude this legislation by moving forward as quickly as possible.
We have to remember that this piece of legislation is Member State driven, and the fact that the Member States have met and managed to agree a comprehensive list of projects has to be recognised positively, whilst not denying Parliament its rights under the codecision procedure.
I hope that both the Council and Commission will agree with Parliament on this, because in order to secure the long-term viability of the trans-European networks, it is imperative that we first ensure a commitment to act, as well as the sound management and financial probity of suitable projects.
I sincerely hope we can move forward to a sensible and above all balanced approach to Europe's infrastructure needs, which after all will help determine the future shape of transport across our continent for decades to come.
Setting up the van Miert Group was a very good idea, and the Commission proposal is influenced by what it produced and you revised.
As it stands, the report is not entirely what he would have liked to see, as a fortuitous majority in the Committee pushed through very substantial amendments to Annex III, but perhaps we can sort that out tomorrow.
My group is in agreement with the list of priority projects being extended to 30.
Although we are prepared to extend the list by adding, for example, the project for a fixed link across the Fehmarnbelt, we want a more precise definition of the projects in some areas covered by Annex III.
My group is, at present, prepared to keep the list to 30 projects, as we know that, according to Article 156(2), decisions on trans-European networks cannot be taken in opposition to the Member States, so it makes no sense to make major additions to the list in the short time available.
However, Madam Vice-President, we are behind the rapporteur.
Both sides have to give way. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Bradbourn, I would first of all like to welcome the ambitions of this trans-European network programme.
It is necessary for employment and growth across the continent, for solidarity between the countries of the EU, in particular the new members, and for supporting the internal market.
Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the need for the European Parliament to have as much involvement as possible with the latest revisions and to be kept informed, if possible, of their implementation.
I would like to say that Parliament will support you, in the Council, to help you ensure that this programme does not exist solely on paper and that it does not end up with the Essen syndrome, in other words that it is not just something that is talked about but has no future. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the brief time that Parliament has accepted for debating the vote on these guidelines, as well as the strong commitment being made to reaching an agreement that will allow the work to be completed by the end of this parliamentary term is proof of the importance that Parliament too attaches to defining the European transport networks.
Flexibility on two levels is therefore to be commended: flexibility over time, which should be partially&#160;–&#160;and I must say adequately&#160;–&#160;guaranteed by the concept of biennial reports that can lead to the agreed forms being revised; and flexibility in the actual definition of the group of projects corresponding to each of these proposals.
Not only the hauliers, but also the people living in mountains, valleys and coastal resorts complain about a huge traffic burden.
That is why we desperately need to work on maintaining, improving and extending the transport network in Europe, and in this the primary option should be for transport by rail and at sea, which are the least environmentally threatening forms of transport.
On the contrary, preventing unnecessary transport contributes to a better environment and to the well-being of people and animals.
We are opposed to the idea of endless investments of Community funds in asphalt being the best way of creating and maintaining jobs or of helping new Member States along.
That is why we consider the Van Miert plan too unwieldy, too threatening to the environment and far too expensive.
It does not appear to be underpinned by any real and sustainable concept of mobility for the whole of Europe; on the contrary, it is no more than yet another mixed bag of national interests.
Among them, let me mention only the Kresna Gorge and the bridge over the Straits of Messina.
Only projects that pass this test can be supported.
European funds must be invested in a sustainable way; they must also be capable of opening up ways ahead, enabling our children to enjoy mobility in the future.
The projects we are planning are long-term ones.
We firmly reject these misconceived plans, especially those to which I have referred. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner de Palacio, I will just focus on a few of the aspects relating to updating the priority projects, in particular on Project No 29 and more specifically on the Ionian/Adriatic intermodal rail route which, over time, has been shortened by a section that today should have instead been reopened, the Bari-Varna route.
We believe that this is an issue of great importance if it is true that the European Union and this Parliament intend to attach importance to the integration of the Balkan area into the trans-European networks too.
This is, however, an objection that, in my opinion, can be easily overcome only if there is a will to suggest access to the EIB funds or a more prudent reworking of the funds already earmarked by the European Union for the whole Balkan area.
The Balkan area is very important, not just in terms of transport, but also in terms of security, and transport can help the issue of security, especially in an area where illegal immigration represents a constant danger for the border countries such as Italy and, in general, for the whole of the Mediterranean area.
Given the importance of this matter and the amount of time that has already lapsed, time is of the essence.
This obligation is already in place in most Member States, and duplicating it would delay the implementation of projects even further than they already have been.
The enlargement of the EU makes it a matter of urgent necessity that the network should be extended; to put it more precisely, what this means is establishing links or rather restoring those that Europe had, in some instances, 70 years ago, but most of which were shut down during the 70 years in which parts of Eastern Europe were under Communist rule.
It also mattered to us that the Czech Republic should be connected via a proper and functioning rail link.
What the Vice-President stated earlier strikes me as being extremely important in the context of our present discussion and the further progress that we hope we can expect.
If we succeed in this, it can be expected to have a positive effect on employment.
Jobs are at stake, as is the transport of goods, and this is also of course about how this can be done without damaging the environment.
The Commission proposal is very consistent, in that it makes clear Europe’s desire to change over to environmentally-friendly modes of transport and to water-based ones.
It has to be said, though, that railway projects and waterways have effects in terms of environmental policy, and so, as part of the trans-European networks, there is a need for strategic environmental assessment.
I hope that it will be swiftly implemented, and for that reason it would be wise if this Parliament showed moderation in the number of projects.
With regard to the Nordic Triangle, in the vote there is a proposal to extend this to include the northern part of the Gulf of Bothnia.
I support this small amendment, which, if implemented, would improve cross-border rail transport services between Finland and Sweden. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission has presented us with a new modification of the guidelines for the trans-European transport networks, in which it proposes extending the number of priority projects which will be declared to be of European interest.
Finally, for those cases in which States have difficulties funding a certain project of European interest in time, we would request that interested autonomous communities and regions which have their own resources be permitted to present proposals to implement them, and also that these communities be able to access aid for funding trans-European transport networks included in all lines of the Community budgets. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I must begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Philip Charles Bradbourn, on the effort he has put into producing this report throughout its negotiation.
In our case, we are glad that the modification of project No 16 in Annex III has been included, the Sines-Badajoz railway line, changing its dimension and adding certain links by road and rail which will also provide greater permeability for the Pyrenees and which are going to resolve the bottlenecks which usually arise in this area.
We will vote in accordance with these considerations. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, on 1 May, a whole array of new states will be joining the European Union, but that day will not, of course, accomplish integration or the real unification of Europe; for that, many measures will be needed, in particular where infrastructure is concerned, and in the extension of the railways.
Madam Vice-President, I am very glad that a representative of the Commission, addressing the Committee during its deliberations, took a very positive view of what is known as the Summerau project, that is to say, the line running from Prague to the south via Linz.
I would not wish to deny that profits may well accrue from this to Austria, which suffers a great deal from heavy goods vehicle traffic, but I do hope that we will receive support from all sides of this House; this is not about self-centred interests, but about those of Europe as a whole, and when it comes to pursuing and maintaining those, we should as far as possible be in agreement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to describe a case for which I can find no solution: let us imagine a network, a link between two countries, backed up by all studies which tell us that in 2010 we are going to be faced with gridlock in the traffic in goods and passengers between those countries.
We are dealing with a project which is absolutely essential to the interrelationship between the north and south of Europe and with a country, in this case France, which seems to be withholding its interest in implementing the project.
Frankly, Commissioner, I cannot find any solution to this problem in the Commission's documents.
I hope that you, who I know offer enormous support to the project, can resolve this problem I am faced with. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as representatives of Europe’s electorate and people, we have some comprehensive tasks as politicians.
First, we must ensure a good environment to live in and, second, we must ensure that there is employment, particularly for our young people in the future.
In order to achieve a good environment, employment and growth, we must make use of transport links and communications.
We must make use of the trans-European networks in a European context.
We can thus promote both growth and a good environment.
The railway is connected to those main lines that together make up an important goods route within northern Sweden and that, in turn, are connected to the Nordic Triangle, the Council’s Project 12.
The project would facilitate trade with Russia and improve the environment in the EU.
The section of the project relating to track gauge shifting facilities will provide experiences that can be drawn on also in other places in the EU that have problems with the linking of railway networks with different track gauges, for example between the Baltic countries and Central Europe and between Russia and the EU.
The time has now come to respect the role of Parliament.
Parliament’s proposals are not nit-picking amendments.
I believe that the Commission must continue to play its role so that many of the extremely reasonable proposals, which I am not going to refer to, are accepted, because they contain extremely positive elements. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner de Palacio, I will use this minute to announce that our group will vote in favour of Amendments Nos 39 and 45 that provide for the bridge over the Straight of Messina to be eliminated from the projected Berlin-Palermo Corridor.
I would like to say to the honourable Members that yesterday, on the occasion of the meeting of the Council of Ministers for Transport, I said that if the Council had modified the Commission’s initial proposed projects – even if it was a single modification, dealt with and supported by the Van Miert Group, but which had not initially been given the green light by the States – we would have to allow Parliament to act in a similar way.
In this regard, I noted the degree of flexibility on the part of the Council, a constructive flexibility, which could be interpreted as indicating, ‘we have also been very respectful; it has been an exceptional case; the issue cannot now suddenly be reopened’.
In this regard, I am happy to tell you that the majority of those intended to clarify the text of the proposed Decision can be accepted by the Commission.
For example, Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11 (first part), 12 (second part), 16 and 17; others can be accepted with certain modifications of the wording such as, for example, No 10 (first and second part) and No 40, in relation to the reference to environmental analyses; it is clear that all projects funded by the Commission must respect the environmental legislation in force; that is an obligation.
The Commission therefore accepts the addition of the reference in the text aimed at emphasising this aspect, as in the case of Amendments Nos: 33, 34, 37, 42, 43 and 44.
With regard to the other amendments, some cannot be accepted because they have already been implicitly included in the proposal and are therefore superfluous; for example, Amendments Nos 11 (second part), 12 (first part), 18 and 21.
Amendments Nos 7, 8 and 15 do not precisely correspond to the objectives of the proposal and, therefore, it is not appropriate to accept them.
The economic conditions are specified in the financial Regulation and not in this document.
With regard to the European coordinator, as I indicated previously, the Commission accepts Amendments Nos 9 and 10, with certain clarifications, while Amendment No 8 cannot be accepted as such by the Commission, which does not mean that this Parliament will not be informed of the appointment of coordinators, but that the Commission will inform Parliament of the appointments as and when they are agreed.
In this regard I would like to say that four amendments which contain modifications or details of routes for projects already included in Annex III, proposed by the Commission, must be accepted, provided that the countries in question accept those modifications.
Because we cannot do anything against their will.
Unfortunately, this is not the only case; when one is in my position one realises that this is not the only country, nor the Pyrenees the only border, where situations of, shall we say, asynchrony, or lack of coordination of times, arise, and that is bad for everybody.
For example, the first part of Amendment No 22 could be accepted, that is to say, in relation to the linking of the two canals, either because we present it black on white, or because we present it in a general manner, but, in this case, the countries in question are prepared to include it.
The second part of Amendment No 22, the Baltic Motorway of the Sea, project 21, can go as far as the North Sea; its name will be changed to ‘Baltic-North Sea Motorway of the Sea’ and we also have the green light from the countries in question.
In the first part of Amendment No 19, relating to project 6, that is, Lyon-Turin-Trieste-Koper-Ljubljana-Budapest, it would be a question of specifying that the railway line from Trieste to Ljubljana should pass through Divaca and that the line between Venice and Trieste should pass through south Ronchi.
We are talking about modifications which consist of establishing a route with differences of 20 km to the north or to the south, as happens for example in the case of south Ronchi.
Let me make it very clear that the Commission has no problem, but that the problem is with the countries affected themselves, and we are talking about modifications of 20&#160;km, of going into the details of important routes.
With regard to these, if the criteria of Article 19 are met, including the firm commitment on the part of the States to carry them out, the Commission is fully prepared to facilitate this agreement.
But only two projects have been analysed in accordance with this criterion: one is the Sena-Escalda river project, which does not appear to pose any problem, because the Council accepted it at the meeting on 5 December, and naturally if Parliament proposes it, the Commission has no problem.
On this line we may very possibly be given the green light by the countries in question, but I am not so sure that we will be given the green light from them for the rest of the project.
Other amendments introduce significant modifications which have not been assessed by the Van Miert Group, such as the Marseilles-Turin railway line, referred to in Amendment No 19, and which has been rejected; the same is the case with the Haparanda line, referred to in Amendment No 47.
These projects were not initially presented by the States in question and do not fulfil all the selection criteria in Article 19, in particular, the commitment of the States of the Union to a timetable.
In accordance with the spirit of Article 156 of the Treaty, the guidelines for the projects require the approval of the State in question, and the Commission must therefore oppose these amendments.
Other amendments propose routes in third countries.
In this case, the Commission cannot include routes which cross third countries in the trans-European networks, but we are aware of the problem posed by the existence following enlargement of an enclave surrounded by Union territory.
In Compostela, in June, we will meet with the chiefs of the various pan-European corridors in order to review them, bearing in mind that two-thirds of those corridors, following enlargement to 27 States, will be within the Union and will be trans-European networks, which is what we are approving today.
In that review of the pan-European corridors we will have to deal specifically and very dynamically with those works which represent a connection of European territory via non-European territory, as in the case of certain countries of the former Yugoslavia in the Balkans region.
Ladies and gentlemen, certain amendments propose withdrawing or removing parts already integrated within the proposals of the Commission's Van Miert group and approved by the Council.
The projects included in Annex III, I would insist, are based on economic studies and political approval from both the Van Miert group and the Council.
I would like to end by once again thanking the honourable Members and saying to you that, as you can see, the positions of the Commission and the Council offer a degree of flexibility in order to take up some of the proposals and contributions of this Parliament which improve the initial text and which, furthermore, respect the balance between the institutions.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B5-0066/2004).
Since the United Kingdom joined France and Germany in backing certain Community policies such as defence, and supported both countries when they failed to comply with the Stability Pact, some elements in the institutions and the media interpret this as meaning that, in the face of the problems arising in the adoption of the draft Constitution, the axis formed by these three countries is moving towards the creation of a 'pioneer' group, which would lead to a two-speed Europe relatively remote from the other Community democratic institutions.
The Council has neither discussed nor taken a view on the question of a two-speed Europe.
Please restrict yourself to speaking as a questioner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am a Member of the European Parliament and I have as much right as everybody else to speak on my own behalf. &#160;&#160; Please follow the Presidency’s instructions. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have heard that the main points of divergence in the Intergovernmental Conference are the composition of the Commission – whether or not there should be one Commissioner per Member State – the Presidencies of the Council and the redefinition of the qualified majority for the adoption of decisions in the Council in accordance with a majority of States and a majority of population.
The further supplementary question on the meeting of the three countries in Berlin is one that I responded to in a previous part-session.
I indicated that these three countries were holding discussions amongst themselves, that they were not the only countries doing so, and that these were in fact very helpful to the Irish presidency.
A number of them have said that the policy of cultural sanctions imposed on Cuba by the EU is 'absurd, unjust and contrary to our interests'. &#160;&#160; . – As both the Council and the Commission have repeatedly made clear in the European Parliament, the decision of 5 June 2003 was part of a package of measures taken following the violation by the Cuban authorities last year of international human rights standards.
This took the form of the summary trial and lengthy prison sentences imposed on a large number of dissidents for exercising their right to freedom of speech and participation in public affairs, as well as the summary trial and the rapid execution of three hijackers of a ferry boat, in breach of international minimum standards for the implementation of the death penalty.
The four measures announced on 5 June 2003 were symbolic and political in nature and therefore their implementation concerns only the governments of the European Union Member States and their officials.
The Council reaffirms the continuing validity of the common position as the basis of the European Union's constructive engagement with Cuba, to be pursued through political dialogue so that tangible results can be achieved, particularly in the political, economic and civil rights areas. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council and dear friend, I am not in the mood for arguing about a choice of words.
A few months ago there were certain actions by the Cuban authorities which the European Union reacted to with measures which you thought were appropriate and which I thought were disproportionate, unfair and absurd – particularly those adopted in the field of cultural cooperation.
Apart from that question, I would reiterate the question which I have put: do you believe that the measures adopted in the field of cultural cooperation help or harm Cubans and Europeans?
And, secondly, does the President-in-Office of the Council believe that the conduct of our civil society, participating en masse in activities which have been, if not boycotted, at least hindered by the European Union, is a way for civil society to raise doubts about the Union’s policy with regard to Cuba? &#160;&#160; . – The words I used were very specific.
As I mentioned, the measures were symbolic and political in their nature and therefore the implementation concerns only governments and EU Member States.
I also make the point that the measures which were announced on 5 June were taken only after the most careful deliberations.
It was the Council's considered view at that time that the application of the measures represented a balance between maintaining the willingness to engage in political dialogue to allow for tangible results, and the necessity to make it clear that grave human rights violations such as those that have occurred in Cuba in the last 12 months were not acceptable.
Finally on a general issue regarding the EU and Cuba: the measures adopted by the Council were very carefully calibrated.
I have just returned from Cuba, where I was able to observe the situation on the ground with an open mind, and a visit to the island might not be a bad idea for some in view of the way in which violations of human rights are discussed in this House.
They would like Europe to restore and improve relations with Cuba and look at that country from a different perspective without being influenced by third parties.
Without going into specifics, I could list other countries where the death penalty is still in place.
In short, there are lots of exciting things happening in Cuba, and it would be useful to visit that country and take a dispassionate look at it. &#160;&#160; . – I am sure that everything the Member has said is quite correct.
On the contrary, in reconfirming the validity of the common position on Cuba on 21&#160;July&#160;2003, the Council stressed that political dialogue should be continued with a view to producing tangible results, particularly in the political, economic and rights spheres.
The Council remains very much open to political dialogue.
With regard to the point made about the impact, the Cuban Government is aware that the Council acknowledges its significant achievements in the field of social rights such as health and education.
However, it remains our earnest hope that the Cuban authorities will come to realise the necessity to make similar advances in the field of fundamental civil, political and human rights.
The Council understands that the honourable Member has also referred his question directly to the Commission, which is the competent body in relation to most of the issues.
However, I would say that detailed enquiries of this kind come within the competences of the data protection authorities in the various Member States.
The competences of the data protection authorities in this case would be those linked to the specific flights concerned.
For instance, for data collected concerning a flight between Boston and London Gatwick, the United Kingdom authority would be the competent authority, whilst for data collected on a flight between Boston and Amsterdam, the Dutch authorities would be responsible.
It is, for example, very clear from these documents that, as we know, Northwest has a cooperation agreement with KLM and that there is therefore a huge overlap between airline reservation databases, including those relating to air traffic internal to the European Union.
This is not the truth, because the international agreements are commissioned by the Council; it is the Council that gave the European Commission the mandate to determine adequacy finding of privacy protection in the United States.
The competent authorities in this particular case, as I said in my main response, are the privacy authorities in the individual Member States.
The competence lies at national authority level, not at this level. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am utterly amazed at the President-in-Office's answer.
At the moment, the Council is discussing a European agreement with the United States, whereby the Article 31 Committee, which is competent in this area, has given, or as good as given, the green light on behalf of the Council, to the conclusion of an agreement with the United States.
The Council is right to say that this should be done at national level, but it too has a task to perform here.
This matter is the subject of ongoing discussions and negotiations with the United States.
However, this is not simply an EU-US issue, as it is fully expected that passenger name record transfers will also be required by a number of other countries in the near future in order to enhance passenger security in general.
The European Union is therefore pursing a global approach with regard to the transfer of such data for border and aviation security purposes.
This is largely an initiative to create a multilateral framework for passenger name record data transfers under the auspices of the International Civil Aviation Organisation.
As regards the proposed EU-US international agreement on the transfer of name records, I would specifically mention that, as honourable Members will be aware, negotiations are still ongoing between the Commission – and it is the Commission that is handling those negotiations – and the US authorities.
It was quite clear yesterday in relation to another issue, Guantanamo, when Commissioner Patten said 'We cannot do anything without the Council'.
Surely it can be raised at the forthcoming EU-US summit and also during the ongoing negotiations in relation to this issue.
That is a responsibility for the Council.
The Council has duly taken note of the European Parliament's resolution on the arms embargo on China.
On 26 January the General Affairs and External Relations Council, in line with the invitation from the European Council of 12 December 2003, invited Coreper and the Political Security Committee to look into this matter.
The Council would like to stress once more that it has not set any specific date for decisions regarding the arms embargo on China.
The current rules for transparency will apply to the decision. &#160;&#160; I thought the Council was going to say again that this is not its responsibility.
In relation to China I would hope that the Council would take a position which reflects the position of Parliament: the only democratically-elected institution within the European Union.
Clearly there is a major problem with the lifting of the arms embargo on China, particularly in the light of what has happened in recent years.
I would hope that the Council will take this issue very seriously and not give in to pressure, despite the fact that there may be some countries in the European Union that would wish to do so.
The arms embargo should remain in place until we can see a justification for lifting it.
As already pointed out in that reply, the comprehensive issue of trafficking in human beings needs to be addressed both at national and international level and needs to be dealt with within a broader context, which involves criminal law, asylum, immigration policies and preventative measures.
A general agreement has been reached in the Council on a proposal for a Council directive on the residence permits issued to third-country nationals who have been victims of trafficking and who cooperate with the competent authorities.
The purpose of the proposal is to offer victims who are willing to cooperate in proceedings against traffickers the possibility to remain in Member States for the duration of those proceedings and to obtain other benefits to assist them in escaping from the influence of the traffickers and returning to a normal life.
Such other benefits may include, for example, access to employment, vocational training and education and other special programmes.
In addition to the framework decision on combating trafficking in human beings, which was adopted on 19&#160;July 2002, the Council adopted a framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography on 22 December 2003.
As far as border controls are concerned, the Council recalls that in 2002 two plans were submitted which contained a series of measures designed to achieve a higher level of security at the external borders and to combat trafficking in human beings.
The first is a comprehensive plan to combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, which was approved by the Council in February 2002.
The second was the plan for the management of external borders of the Member States of the European Union, which was approved by the Council on 13 June 2002.
Since 2002, various pilot projects and joint operations have been launched at the external borders.
A network of Member State liaison officers has been created; a common risk analysis model and a common core curriculum for border guard training has been established.
Other joint operations are planned and will be carried out in the near future at land, sea and air borders in Member States and the accession countries – which is the concern raised by the speaker.
Furthermore, the Council is awarding special attention to the setting-up of a European agency for the management of cooperation at external borders, which will integrate ad hoc centres into an institutional framework within the Community.
On 27 November 2003, for example, the Justice and Home Affairs Council adopted a conclusion on the main elements of this agency.
It was agreed that this agency would, inter alia, coordinate the operational cooperation between Member States in the management of their external borders, assist Member States in the training of border guards, carry out the type of risk analysis that I have already mentioned, and assist Member States in circumstances requiring increased technical cooperation at borders.
One of the extraordinary things about this particular pernicious trade is that its perpetrators have been extremely astute in the manner in which they have managed to smuggle their victims.
It was adopted on 22 December 2003 and requires each Member State to take the necessary measures to ensure that all conduct relating to child pornography and child exploitation at an international scale is fully punishable.
As I said, this is a pernicious trade carried out by ruthless people.
The cause is also the extraordinary transition that countries go through when one system that seemed secure has diminished and another is being put in place.
You are right, Mr Evans: if you look at all the Union policies in the broad sense, that is exactly the approach that the Union is adopting.
In the Balkans, which you mentioned, there is a very specific Union policy, which is well-informed and well-focused.
The Council is fully aware of the restrictions imposed by the Israeli authorities on entry to the occupied territories as described by Mrs Morgantini.
The European Union and its Member States closely coordinate their approaches to these issues.
They raise the problems of access to the Palestinian territories in their regular dialogue with the Israeli government officials.
Moreover, the European Union plays a leading role in the task force on project implementation established by the international community to deal with problems of access for development assistance workers. &#160;&#160; I see that the results that have come out of this survey also confirm what I claimed: among them, the fact that whenever foreign citizens travel to Israel to get to Palestine&#160;–&#160;because the Palestinians do not have any borders that they monitor&#160;–&#160;they are constantly subject to this procedure, and we ourselves have experienced obstacles to movement.
The Israeli authorities know that we consider the actions they are taking to be regrettable.
The Member can be absolutely assured that the Irish presidency has devoted a great deal of time and attention to this issue.
I said that it would be foolhardy to suggest that circumstances do anything other than contribute to the situation.
I said in a previous reply that what we all aspire to in the Middle East is a situation where the Palestinian and Israeli peoples can live side by side in peace and respect each other's cultural positions – a situation where young Palestinian men and women do not aspire to becoming suicide bombers and where young Israeli women and men do not have to consider going into the army or the dangers of being blown up on their streets.
Nothing I have said should be taken – and I am sure this was not the Member's intention – as in any way detracting from the horrors of daily life in that region. &#160;&#160; I completely concur with what you have just said, President-in-Office.
I attended a meeting this afternoon with some Israeli citizens talking about their aspirations for peace.
Regulation No 1/58 is based on Article 290 of the EC Treaty which states: 'The rules governing the languages of the institutions of the Community shall, without prejudice to the provisions contained in the rules of procedure of the Court of Justice, be determined by the Council, acting unanimously.' Historically, these provisions, which came under primary law as regards Article 2 and 4 of the Treaty and under secondary law as regards Regulation No 1/58, have been adopted only on the occasion of accessions, by means of successive accession treaties.
Thus, Article 61 of the Athens Accession Treaty provides for the translation into the new languages of the text of the original treaties and of the Treaties amending or supplementing them.
In other words, after accession the Treaties will have to be interpreted on the basis of the text existing in twenty-one languages and not just in the four original languages.
Regulation No 1/58, as most recently amended by the Treaty of Athens, brings to twenty the number of official languages and working languages of the EU institutions.
Although Irish has not been added to the list of official languages and working languages of the institutions, each successive treaty is published in Irish as well as in the eleven other working languages.
The texts in Irish are equally authentic and have equal status with those in all the other languages.
I might add in my capacity as a Member of the Irish Parliament, and more precisely in my capacity as an Irish citizen, that the honourable Member will be aware that a public debate is taking place in Ireland as to whether or not the Irish language should be recognised as an official working and official language of the European Union.
The Irish government has established a working group that is analysing the options available for further strengthening and enhancing the status of the Irish language within the European Union.
That working group is examining a range of issues with a view to identifying additional opportunities in this regard.
You can be sure that I am following the Rules of Procedure. &#160;&#160; .
The extraordinary thing that has happened in the last 30 years has been the explosion of interest in a language that 30 years ago looked as if it was threatened.
One of the arguments made 30 years ago was that minority languages would be crushed and in particular the Irish language would disappear in the European Union.
The most rapidly growing part of education in Ireland is the Gaelscoileanna, the all-Irish schools at first and second level.
The Irish Government welcomes that.
The language has been accorded a quite distinct status within the Union since Ireland joined in 1973.
The Treaty status of the language was agreed in 1973 and that right was re-established in the Treaties of Amsterdam and Nice.
In short, they are practical measures that make a difference.
Irish is the only language other than those specified in Council Regulation No 1 of 1958 to which these rights apply.
Additionally, Lingua, the Union's programme for the promotion of language teaching and learning recognises the Irish language for its purposes.
As with the Irish language, there has been a great interest in it and more people are speaking Scotch-Irish today than have spoken it for many years.
However, in Northern Ireland there is a feeling that neither the United Kingdom Government nor the European Union are looking at it favourably, as compared with other languages.
The lesser-used languages – whether we are talking about the language of Ulster or, for example, the Cornish language – are a matter which has concerned the Union.
I had the honour of representing Cornwall and Plymouth in this House for ten years.
In fact, in parts of Wexford, where I was born, there was a minority language that borrowed very heavily on the Cornish language.
The Union should have a concern and a generous policy for the lesser-used languages, because they are part of the extraordinary cultural diversity of the European Union.
For me, it is in a special category, but legally it has a status that is rather different to some of the other lesser-used languages.
The recent revelations about the secret network illicitly trading in highly sensitive nuclear equipment and technology organised by the former Pakistani chief scientist, Abul Qadeer Khan, are of very serious concern.
During the recent European Union ministerial troika to Islamabad, these concerns were raised at the highest level with Pakistan and we were assured that new controls have been put in place in order to prevent proliferation.
As far as the European Union is concerned, exports of sensitive equipment and technology are regulated by Council Regulation (EC) No 1334/2000.
With regard to the export of weapons-usable materials – for example plutonium and highly enriched uranium – from the European Union, this can only be authorised in accordance with the above-mentioned regulation, as well as other relevant international rules and practices governing such exports.
Furthermore, all nuclear material within the European Union – as long as it remains in the civilian nuclear fuel cycle – is safeguarded by the nuclear inspection services of the Commission and, where the material is to be transferred outside the European Union, by the International Atomic Energy Agency.
In the case of export to third countries, the IAEA will also apply safeguards to the third country and will, inter alia, verify the declaration on quantity and composition made before the shipment of any material.
The principles and the objectives of nuclear non-proliferation and the disarmament agreed at the 1995 Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty Review Conference state that full-scope safeguards should be a necessary precondition for transfers of source and special fissionable material or specially designed material thereof.
The nuclear suppliers group and the export control regime in which all EU Member States participate designates full-scope safeguards as a condition of supply for sensitive nuclear and related technology.
The Council is committed to continuing to strengthen export control policies and practices in cooperation with our partners in various export control regimes and in other third countries.
This is reflected in the EU strategy against proliferation of weapons of mass destruction adopted by the Heads of State and Government at the last European Council meeting in December in Brussels. &#160;&#160; I accept that the presidency views this as a serious problem.
However, all of us, and the EU institutions in particular, need to recognise that the plutonium being sent across the seas to Japan from both Sellafield in the UK and La Hague in France is directly usable in nuclear explosive devices.
We need to get a grip on proliferation, and in this context the trade in nuclear technology undertaken by the EU is similar to the trade in heroin in that it is equally lethal.
The issue raised in the first part of the question is absolutely terrifying.
The Community is engaged in the issue; we have made the concerns of the Community known to the Pakistani authorities.
Since September 11 we have a different view on security, and we should all be very conscious of the implications in this particular area. &#160;&#160; As the time allotted to questions to the Council has elapsed, Questions Nos 9 to 26 will be replied to in writing (1).
In a sense the proposal from the Commission had quite a faltering and uncertain start.
The original draft was a little too open-ended.
It rather bluntly stated that the European Union would have the power to extend for the first time anti-dumping disciplines from the trade in goods to the trade in services, without a great deal of detail about how that would take place.
Our efforts in Parliament during the first reading in particular have been to fill in some of the gaps, to make it a more usable and credible instrument, rather than a sort of blunderbuss threat which might arguably have been too crude to use at all.
I am very pleased the Council has adopted that.
I am very grateful to the Commissioner and the Commission for accepting those amendments too.
As rapporteur, I would have liked both the Council and the Commission to move a little further towards our position as adopted at first reading.
I remain a little concerned that there is no caveat in the legislation to the effect that this instrument should only be used if significant material injury is inflicted upon European Union aircraft carriers.
I am extremely grateful to the Irish presidency for persuading its colleagues in the Council, according to all the accounts I have received, that the offending wording should be deleted so that a rigid hierarchy between bilateral instruments and EU instruments would not be established to the detriment of the latter.
Let me take the remaining seconds to thank the Commission services, which have been enormously helpful in providing a lot of technical detail to a complete ignoramus like me.
I should like to thank the Commissioner for proposing this in the first place and accepting the final settlement, the Council and, most importantly, my colleagues in the Committee on Transport.
According to the Commission, the safety measures in very small airports had to be adapted because they were difficult to put into practice.
It was necessary to alleviate the distress that was caused by the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 of 16 December 2002 establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation security.
Safety in aviation has always been important to the public and therefore also to this Parliament, even more so after 11 September 2001.
The Regulation in question had been prepared by the Commission in a short space of time, in order to respond to the increased sense of lack of safety in civil aviation.
I take the view that it is important for the Regulation to be made clearer and for the mistakes in the legislative text to be corrected, but, above all, to ensure that the regulations are practical and applicable.
We once again have an excellent working relationship with the Commission, but if at first reading, the Council adopts a position as a result of which the Regulation is altered dramatically, we should probably review our position.
We had to try to achieve a level playing field between European airlines and the airlines of the United States, which then received even greater support than our airlines.
We also have to keep the necessary balance between the rights of travellers, their security and, above all, the safety of air travel against these new terrorist challenges that threaten everyone in Europe, and indeed in the greater world.
Nor did it agree with Parliament's view on the need for a harmonised inspection regime.
I have agreed with the Council and the Commission – and I hope other colleagues will be able to agree with this as well – on what I believe is the best consensus available.
There are those who have said to me that this still does not go far enough, but I think we have the best consensus available to us at this moment in time.
I would add one word of caution.
We should return to and revise this directive within three to four years, in the light of whatever changes may take place.
I would like to thank the Commission and the Council for their extremely positive cooperation.
I thank my shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation, which has enabled us to get to this stage, and also my committee colleagues for their cooperation.
This is now a very good report. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has decided that we should deal jointly with three issues relating to the air sector, but which are of a different nature.
I am therefore going to talk about them consecutively and separately and I am going to follow the order used by the honourable Members in their speeches.
The text provides the Union with new competences in order to defend itself in the event of certain anti-competitive practices on the part of third countries.
In its first reading, the European Parliament contributed to clarifying and increasing the efficiency of the mechanisms laid down in the draft regulation, particularly by means of setting of time limits.
Once adopted – very soon I hope – this regulation will be an essential instrument so that the Union can prevent and correct any practice which may be adopted by third-country airlines which contravenes unfair competition standards.
I would insist that this represents an important supplementary stage to which we can add the other progress made over the last year in the consolidation of our air transport policy with the aim of fully controlling the vitally important international dimension of the air sector and defend the already very prominent role our industry plays.
With regard to the second report, I would like to highlight the work of the rapporteur, Mr Dhaene, and say that in the case of civil aviation security, in view of the numerous proposals presented, the introduction of certain modifications of Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 on civil aviation security, is not very significant.
In truth, the intention is to rectify certain deficiencies in the framework regulation which the Member States indicated in 2003 on trying to apply the European Union rules in the field of aviation security to smaller airports, in which, due to their size and activities, there were aspects which did not make much sense.
The proposal does not relate to any point of principle and I am happy to say that both the Council and the European Parliament have expressed their will to adopt it quickly at first reading.
In this regard, the Commission is prepared to maintain a dialogue on possible changes to the content of this important regulation during the next legislature, if we consider that there are still issues to be dealt with.
It is an extremely important regulation as we saw after 11 September, when our air companies were stretched to their limits and had to respond with the support of the public sector.
The decision-making process has led to strong support from all the institutions in order to reach a compromise.
I would like to express my satisfaction at the constructive role played by this Parliament and I would stress once again the importance of this institution’s role and actions in achieving social support and the support of the sectors and people involved.
The Commission understands and supports the form and the content of the amendment presented by the European Parliament to the common position.
This guarantees, on the one hand, that governments, if they wish, can establish the insurance requirements for such risks and, on the other, that this type of aviation activity can be maintained without excessive costs, since the insurance requirements in the case of war and terrorism laid down in the regulation will not be applied to aircraft of less than 500 kg, which includes gliders and microlights.
In any event, I hope that the general result will be acceptable to Parliament and the Council and that the codecision procedure on this issue can be completed at second reading during the current legislature.
The three rapporteurs have done an excellent job of dealing with substantial legislative initiatives, and we are pleased with the progress that has been made.
I think we have managed to reconcile both the passengers’ interest in having a proper and high level of insurance cover and the airlines’ interest in premiums that remain affordable.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate my thanks to Vice-President De Palacio.
We are engaged – as we need to be – in adopting every kind of legislation relating to air transport by the end of this legislative period.
Since 11 September 2001, there has not been a dull moment.
Before I comment on the content of the reports, I should like to tell the House how satisfied I am that we have received a European approval for the merger of Air France and KLM and that the competent American authority has also given its stamp of approval.
Many international competitors of European aviation companies operate unaffected by government measures, and this enables them to compete with European aviation companies in improper ways.
The report recognises that the Solvit project is up and running.
It also encourages Member States' parliaments to address the whole problem of gold plating.
These are the good bits in this report.
However, when we look at the Lisbon agenda, what comes up time and time again is the economic criteria.
I believe that the internal market is about workers; it is about workers' rights; it is about health and safety; it is about living conditions; it is about elderly people; it is about young people; it is about disabled people; it is about employment and unemployment; it is about the training of young, old and unemployed people.
Tomorrow we will vote on one of the most important issues that faces European citizens: whether we give the green light to the Commission to go down the road of looking at the liberalisation of our water sector.
We cannot let down our citizens.
I am pleased to say that the committee shared my view and therefore we have substantially improved it in committee.
It is referred to here but actually the Commission makes it absolutely clear that policy on ownership is not an issue.
I would like to congratulate the Commission on producing for the first time a three-year perspective with a clear view forward and a series of important and coherent policies to make the single market work better.
I am pleased to say that colleagues in my committee have agreed with the amendments and we have adjusted the report to reflect a continuation of what I did before, not the retrogressive views of the rapporteur in this instance.
Thank you for this report.
It is not his fault that the vote in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has produced a somewhat distorted report.
As rapporteur for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I am naturally very disappointed that only three of my amendments have been adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
Unlike some of my colleagues here on the left, I am not by definition against liberalisation, but I am opposed to market fundamentalism and to pushing through liberalisation at all costs, if the conditions and public guarantees are not yet in place by a long way and liberalisation is loss-making on all fronts, except for the private monopolies and their adherents who can seize on their chances in this.
It is high time that we in Europe put a brake on liberalisation of that kind and that a framework directive was put in place for services of general interest, thus providing a counterweight for the dominance of the competition rules.
I can see the Commissioner hesitating in that respect, and he is palming us off with one excuse after the other.
One final remark about the new directive on the internal market for services: that really seems to me to be a case of extreme madness, because it undermines everything that we have laid down in Europe in the area of subsidiarity and the precedence of the rules of the country where the services are performed.
The new proposal for a directive is throwing the existing regulation into utter confusion and threatens drastically to restrict the Member States' policy room to determine conditions on the basis of general interest, monitoring the quality of society and the environment and guaranteeing fundamental rights.
In my view, some elements are even inconsistent with the corresponding guiding principles in the Treaty.
It is beyond me why you want to get this through Parliament before your departure, and I am pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has in any case decided not to proceed too hastily in this matter.
Furthermore, in a Union of 25 Member States or more, we need to strengthen the foundations on which the internal market is built.
The internal market strategy 2003-2006 sets out exactly what needs to be done by whom and by when.
The benefits of mutual recognition are that it respects national traditions and avoids further regulation at the level of the European Union.
We all know that negotiating harmonising directives will be no sinecure with 25 Member States around the table.
I share Parliament's concern over the slow implementation of internal market directives.
Late transposition creates legal insecurity and can cause significant harm to businesses and citizens from other Member States.
Public embarrassment often has more impact than a pile of infringement proceedings in the post.
I am therefore attracted by Parliament's suggestion that Member States should establish internal market offices that would be responsible for good internal market behaviour and to which people could apply if they have a problem.
We shall certainly pursue this line of thinking. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the internal market is truly one of the most important steps in achieving the Lisbon objectives.
Although the objectives are in place and the necessary laws have now been enacted at EU level, the extent to which they have been brought into effect in many Member States is truly shameful.
The Commission should invest more time in monitoring the implementation of the decisions taken.
Furthermore, the impact and effectiveness of EU legislation should be continually assessed, as unnecessary laws are something we do not need.
The decision by many Member States, including Finland, not to allow the free movement of the workforce from the new Member States is nothing less than blatant discrimination against the nationals of those countries.
So far only Ireland and Great Britain have said they will open up their borders on 1 May to the workforce arriving from the Central European countries that are joining the Union.
The restrictions might even have been accepted if the new Member States had been aware of them at Copenhagen, when the membership agreements were just being signed.
It is short-sighted and pointless on the part of the current Member States to fear change in this way and be unwilling to implement essential structural solutions, and it undermines the prospects of economic growth in both the current and the new Member States.
The opening of the market for net-based industries has delivered significant benefits for consumers, businesses and society.
Competition has increased, prices have fallen, and there is more innovation and choice.
To boost international competitiveness, it is important to address all the problems that are troubling the internal market.
Removing the cross-border barriers to trade in services in the service industry is the most crucial of these.
We believe that, in the same way as competitiveness of the market is being proposed, the social dimension of the strategy for it should also be jointly evaluated without fear.
Therefore, above all, we must see what it is that makes the man in the street opposed to the internal market and how we can link its future with the vision of Europe. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, you want to build the internal market on purely commercial principles and with fiscal and regulatory competition, when an efficient internal market in accordance with the European social model requires the creation of public assets and a substantial harmonisation of the rules at European level.
You want liberalisation in all areas, while in January 2004 Parliament again rejected the liberalisation of the education, health, social services and water sectors.
You want to remove the exclusive rights for services of general economic interest and impose the rules of public markets, while Parliament has asked for these services to have a legal codecision framework and given its opinion in favour of a right of autoproduction for public organisations.
The only method that can unite Europeans would involve establishing common positive criteria in the different sectors of the internal market by codecision, which would produce harmonisation rules in accordance with our social model.
The Lamfalussy method for financial services is much more participative than the one that you use in other areas where you seek to obtain a blank cheque to eliminate regulatory barriers.
We ought to look at, for example, the case of remoter parts of the European Union.
This is liberalisation pursued in an extreme and inflexible way.
The water, or water services, sector is, and will be, crucial in Europe too.
We set down in writing our recognition that decisions on these things have to be taken, if at all possible, close to the citizen in towns and communities.
I shall address two points that appeared to be important in this debate.
Firstly, the question of whether the internal market strategy takes enough account of social, employment and environmental concerns.
I must stress that the main aim of the internal market strategy is to strengthen the application of the key principles on which the internal market is based, especially as the Union expands and enlarges to take in ten more Member States.
That does not mean that social or environmental aspects are not important.
More than 2.5 million jobs have been created since 1993 because of the internal market.
Nearly EUR 900 billion cumulatively has been added to our combined gross domestic product – money that supports our social security system, pensions, healthcare and education.
Costs of baskets of services and goods include jobs, leaving more money in people's pockets.
The internal market has promoted innovation and the adoption of clean-air technology.
Concerning the services of general economic interest, the Commission makes no apology for its actions to open up the network industries to further competition.
Quality and user satisfaction are higher than before market opening and prices are often lower.
For example, the Commission has just proposed further steps in the railway sector and we are also looking at ways of injecting more competition into the water sector.
The quality of service and respect for general interests remain critical requirements.
The vote will be tomorrow at noon. &#160;&#160; . – This report is of enormous importance.
In the event of legislative inaction, there is a clear risk that the European Court of Justice will be called upon to resolve this apparent breach of the neutrality of the tax in order to re-establish a level playing field and ensure that internal market principles are respected.
The combined effect of the savings to postal operators resulting from the right of deduction the proposal would open to them and the application of a reduced rate to a wide scope of postal services is intended to limit or neutralise any increase in postal prices.
The Commission was the proponent of the universal services concept at the heart of Directive 97/67/EC and considers that every citizen in the union has the right to a wide range of affordable, quality postal services.
Universal postal service providers will not be in a position to provide such a service if they are discouraged from investing and modernising and as a result can no longer compete with other operators in the parts of the market which are already open to competition.
Universal postal operators in Europe recognise such challenges and accordingly most of them support the objectives of this proposal.
The market is being liberalised at both European and national level.
The current unequal tax treatment not only hampers the development of open markets, and thus the deregulation of the postal services, but it also distorts competition and makes it more difficult for both the public and private operators to compete.
The economic impact on consumers would be negligible.
We have made some amendments since the last reading.
It is also recommended that the Member States which, on 1 January 2003, applied a super-reduced rate might continue to apply that super reduced rate to postal services.
I hope that these compromises are sufficient.
The biggest issue that has been dealt with recently is the case of Royal Mail.
To be sure, it plays well with the public to proclaim your opposition to VAT on postage stamps, but we are well aware that, as various postal services have been liberalised, there will, in the long term, be no getting away from the need to treat postal services and private service providers equally in order to avoid competition in this sector being distorted.
In the first place, we want to defer the entry into force of this directive until 2007, in order to give the postal services enough time to implement it without difficulty.
Nevertheless, the total harmonisation of indirect taxation has never been an objective of the European Union.
An internal market can work perfectly well with fiscal competition, as long as it is fair competition.
The proof of this is the American internal market, in which the fifty States of the Union continue to tax consumption through local taxes of between 0 and 10 percentage points.
The coordination of VAT rates and excise duties that took place with my modest contribution, in 1991, under the Luxembourg Presidency, established the base rates, including zero rates in some areas, and the ceiling rates, allowing the Member States a degree of freedom of action for a national taxation policy.
However, the Commission is still pushing for fiscal unification.
The Commission’s proposal to abolish the VAT exemption granted to public postal services comes from this same vague desire for standardisation.
The postal sector is still a service organised at national level with a national price system.
The majority of the Socialist Group will vote against VAT on postal services.
The harmonisation of VAT on postal services sought by the Commission is in fact just an attempt to create the conditions required for a subsequent privatisation of a public service for the benefit of certain private companies that are already active in that field.
We oppose the privatisation of this universal service which, even in the United States, functions as a public service. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I think that the VAT exemption should be lifted.
It would be paradoxical to claim to want to defend public service companies while allowing them to be strangled.
The equal treatment of public and private providers of postal services in terms of VAT basis and the VAT rate is therefore of major importance.
To oblige An Post to now apply VAT to its postal services could well be the death knell of the company.
There needs to be some common sense in the way we deal with public services like the postal services. &#160;&#160; . – The Commission hopes for the support of Parliament for its proposal and is ready to take into account a number of significant amendments proposed by Members of Parliament.
The Commission's position as regards the amendments is as follows: the Commission considers that any study of the postal sector, and particularly those carried out under Directive 97/67/EC, should take into account the impact of VAT in the sector.
The Commission undertakes to take into account the spirit of Amendment No 5.
In view of a possible compromise with Parliament and with regard to Amendments Nos 4 and 11, the Commission could accept a delay until 1 January 2007 in the entry into force for the actual implementation of the directive in order to allow operators enough time to adapt their systems.
In view of a possible compromise with Parliament, which has stressed the need to protect consumers from price increases on standard postal services, and with regard to Amendments Nos 6, 9 and 10, the Commission could agree to widening the proposed scope of postal services that may qualify for a reduced rate so as to include standard postal services relating to items of up to 10 kg in weight.
However, these amendments would indicate in no uncertain terms that this Parliament considers price stability of postal services of paramount importance and certainly sends a political signal to Member States to make use of the option which the proposal includes.
With regard to Amendments Nos 3 and 8, the Commission considers reduced rates under 5% to be temporary measures which should not be applied to new categories of goods or services.
However, it would not be appropriate, nor in keeping with the subsidiarity principle, to amend its proposal to advise Member States how they should spend their tax receipts.
The aim of this agreement is to enable continued cooperation with Israel in the field of science and technology.
I would also emphasise the importance of this cooperation within the framework of the development of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership, as well as in the implementation of the European Research Area.
Scientific cooperation with Israel has already resulted in numerous joint projects in the field of research and technological development.
The public and private partners engaged in this cooperation have stressed the value of that cooperation and the benefits of it.
Another major element, mentioned previously, is the contribution this agreement makes to the implementation of the European Research Area and its opening-up to the rest of the world.
In this context, the Commission is willing to promote international cooperation in scientific and technological matters with third country partners.
The Cooperation Agreement with Israel fits naturally into this strategy, particularly in respect of the Middle East.
The agreement should also enable scientists to continue their efforts for regional cooperation with the countries neighbouring Israel for the benefit of all, and this in the difficult circumstances currently prevailing in the Middle East.
I am therefore convinced that Parliament should and will give its support to the conclusion of this agreement. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, on 20 November 1995 a Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement was concluded between the European Union and Israel by which Israel became associated with the EU in the fields of the movement of goods and services, the right of establishment, the movement of capital and economic and cultural cooperation.
This institutionalised a political dialogue with Israel, which was already taking place on a highly regular basis.
Both sides have benefited from cooperation under the Fifth Framework Programme: Israel gains access to a more extensive network of research institutes, while the EU is able to tap Israel’s innovative potential.
Water treatment has already been mentioned; there are also institutes in the areas under the autonomous Palestinian Authority that participate successfully in our Research Programme.
Let me take this opportunity of repeating, for the benefit of some in this House, that this report does not envisage any research cooperation in the sphere of military research or under the aegis of Euratom.
It participates in the programme as a partner with the same rights and obligations as EU Member States: the only exception is the Scientific and Technical Research Committee (CREST), in which it is only an observer.
In order that this statement should not be misunderstood, let me quote from a letter written to me by the Israeli Ambassador, Oded Eran, who had this to say: ‘As you pointed out, the overall situation in the Middle East and specifically between Israel and the Palestinian Authority is far from being ideal at the moment.
And the whole Middle East peace process is facing a critical test.’I therefore sympathise with those who tabled the amendments, who are opposed to this and believe that we should put every form of cooperation with Israel on ice until such time as peace prevails in this region, which is so sadly lacking in it.
This means that, from the research point of view, the Agreement is very much to be welcomed.
Sadly, this agreement cannot be straightforward.
From the scientific point of view, collaboration with Israel is no doubt useful in the Sixth Framework Programme.
It is a strong scientific country and, as we have heard, some very useful Mediterranean-wide projects, including research into water treatment, have been carried out and could be carried out in future.
In the past the European Parliament has very successfully asked for scientific cooperation to be frozen.
Some Members advocate voting against this agreement and indeed taking much further action to show the Israeli Government our disapproval.
A second alternative – and the one that I recommend – is to consider that science and research are positive, that the results of that work are of benefit to human beings and that this allows dialogue and provides an opening for work with Palestinians.
We want Palestinian participation without barriers or handicaps.
Of course we want no nuclear, military or dual-use research.
We want a very close monitoring of the situation.
We want the EU-Israel Research Committee to report regularly so that we can see whether this act of faith in the value of science has been worthwhile or has been misinterpreted by a government whose actions we condemn. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in 2002 this Parliament agreed a resolution not to pursue scientific and technical cooperation with Israel because of the violent and shocking situation in the Middle East at the time.
Nothing has changed since, or at least very little.
The Verts/ALE Group has therefore tabled amendments asking for the suspension of this agreement in the present situation, particularly because of its unequal benefit for one protagonist – Israel – and until more progress has been made towards realistic conflict resolution in the region.
However, to my great surprise and disappointment, I believe Members will not be able to vote on that amendment.
Europeans have a historic responsibility for the problems in this region.
Contrary to what has been said by some Members, this is not just about the eventual benefit to Israel; we too will benefit.
We are investing in a future in which – or so we hope – Europe will be able to do its bit in resolving a situation that is, in political and human terms, extremely difficult.
On just one small point, I would like to point out to the Members in the Group of the Greens, who have difficulties with the ‘dual use’aspect that the European Union does not support any military research, nor does our research programme cover it, so any cooperation in that area is automatically ruled out. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, no questions have been put to the Commission and I have nothing to add to the debate.
This is denying the political dimension of human rights under Article 2 of the Euro-Mediterranean agreement and contradicting the Barcelona process based on respect for fundamental rights.
Israel systematically violates human rights in territories occupied by colonisation and occupation, violates democratic principles with regard to thousands of Palestinians, Israeli citizens, victims of discrimination.
The EU cannot have trade or scientific relations with a third country without taking into consideration the abuses of international law that it is guilty of.
We have seen improvements in the effectiveness of cross-border cooperation between public administrations and what is now being proposed is that this be extended to businesses and to citizens.
The journal that the Commission publishes on IDABC often mentions the IDABC way and it is important to emphasise that the IDABC way is about eMethodology: not only about the projects, but looking at the way in which those projects are developed.
It is also important that one of the achievements of IDABC is that it can give our citizens practical, very workmanlike examples of how the European Union, the Commission, Parliament, the Council have worked together to bring citizen-friendly benefits from the European Union to the Member States.
The Commission would also like to thank the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and the European Parliament as a whole for its support and flexibility, which almost ensured a conclusion at first reading.
The Commission is very pleased to see that both the European Parliament and the Council have viewed the IDABC programme very favourably.
On 18 November 2003 the European Parliament gave its full support to this programme at first reading, delivering an opinion with five amendments.
It would also allow the Commission to prepare carefully, during the course of 2004, the transition from the current IDA programme to the new IDABC programme.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be at noon tomorrow. (1)
