EIB and EBRD annual reports for 2007 - Community guarantee to the European Investment Bank (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: by Mr Mitchell, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on 2007 Annual Reports of the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; and by Mr Seppänen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council granting a Community guarantee to the European Investment Bank against losses under loans and loan guarantees for projects outside the Community - C6-0025/2009 -.
rapporteur. - (FI) Mr President, the European Union can provide developing countries and other countries not in the EU with financial assistance in the form of credit at low interest rates from the European Investment Bank.
The new decision is to be taken by 6 November this year.
The European Investment Bank is accustomed to receiving the support of the European Parliament in its various affairs, but its representatives this time have failed to realise that the codecision procedure had been brought into play and that Parliament's competence in this matter had been extended significantly.
I would also like to thank the Committee on Budgets and its shadow rapporteurs for its consensus in order to reach a decision at first reading.
As rapporteur, I would first like to welcome President Maystadt and President Mirow to the Chamber on this first time that Parliament has drafted a report on the activities of the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) concurrently.
The initially planned EUR 5 billion per year for SME lending has been increased to EUR 7.5 billion per year over the four year period 2008-2011.
An example of new funding is the EUR 310 million approved recently by the EIB for investment in SMEs in Ireland.
I am very pleased about the proposals which are being made in the context of the energy crisis and climate control and, in particular, the role of the EIB in this.
I am also pleased that the recent decision of the Court on codecision has been announced and that Parliament will now have an enhanced role in relation to these two banks.
We heard Prime Minister Brown talking about this in terms of the international financial crisis.
Mr President, this afternoon, on behalf of the Commission, I want to welcome the President of the European Investment Bank, Mr Maystadt, and the President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Mr Mirow.
We feel it is right to deal with these two financial institutions together, particularly at the current time when the effectiveness of their actions must serve to reinforce our policies on the economic crisis, and when cooperation between these two institutions is especially important.
Our main concern is that Parliament should in future produce a separate report on the work of the EIB.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) First of all, I would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on the report, and I am also pleased that this question, the problems concerning the two financial institutions, came before us at the same time; indeed, I think that in the future we will have to examine these two institutions at greater length.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the current economic crisis in terms of a problem of imbalance, with a deregulated market on the one hand and a lack of public interest on the other hand.
He also proposes that we allow the two banks to concentrate on the tasks which face us in future.
Therefore, I would like to thank Mr Mitchell for his good work.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development have existed in the shadows for a long time.
We have public banks, for example in Germany, which have breached these principles and have got into difficulties, in just the same way as many private banks.
We must ensure that we do not place them under excessive strain and, particularly in times of crisis, do not attempt to use them as a source of capital in areas where other sources of capital may already be drying up.
It also seems important to me that the EBRD continues to play a role in the transition countries, because we must not abandon these countries, especially in times of crisis.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to thank those responsible for both reports, which we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance support.
For example, it would be a serious mistake for the EIB to support large-scale projects such as the bridge over the Straits of Messina or the Brenner base tunnel for high-speed passenger trains.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (EL) Mr President, the report welcomes the activity of the two banks, without however mentioning their responsibility for and contribution to the capitalist crisis.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, what worries me most is the suggestion that the European Investment Bank (EIB) has a significant role to play in solving the financial crisis - that it can somehow act as the Europe-wide body to provide stimulus where Member States have singularly failed to coordinate their own stimuli.
These EIB operations are especially relevant in middle-income countries and infrastructure, financial and commercial sectors.
I am counting on the support of all the political groups of this House. (PT) Mr President, I join my fellow Members in applauding the magnificent work carried out by our rapporteur on the Committee on Budgets and the way in which he managed to fight for the rights and prerogatives of the European Parliament.
In accordance with the Court of Justice judgment of 6 November 2008, the European Parliament has full codecision powers in this area.
We will be here to ensure that the EIB's investments pursue these objectives. (LT) The European Investment Bank is the world's largest bank and it is clear that it has an important role to play in developing the economy in the European Union's internal market and beyond.
Furthermore, Commissioner, I cannot understand why you do not take the initiative devolved upon you under Article 105 to refer this to the Council, so that such a mission can be undertaken by the European Central Bank.
Faced with the dramatic decline in private flows of credit, we came together last month with the World Bank group to launch the joint IFI action plan in support of banking systems and lending to the real economy in central and eastern Europe.
This is a EUR 24.5 billion package over 2009 and 2010 of which the EBRD will contribute EUR 6 billion.
The EBRD has taken a proactive stance in response to the crisis: supporting our clients in countries of operations, we are expanding our instruments, and aim to invest EUR 7 billion in 2009 - an increase of more than 20%.
Today, of course, we are facing a crisis on an exceptional scale - probably the most serious crisis since the end of the Second World War - and it is therefore quite normal in this context for Member States to call on our two institutions to try to make a contribution to the European Union's response to this crisis.
In the first area, as regards loans for small and medium-sized enterprises, EUR 5.6 billion in loans were issued in this short period.
Finally, regarding the third area: aid for countries that have been hardest hit by the crisis: during this same five-month period we issued EUR 910 million in loans in Hungary, EUR 600 million in Latvia, EUR 1 billion in Romania and EUR 1.1 billion in Lithuania.
A word in conclusion on cooperation between our two institutions.
Mr Mirow has already indicated that it was developing well, particularly in the Western Balkans, and with our neighbours in the East, most recently in Turkey.
Mr President, I want to thank all the Members who have spoken in this debate.
rapporteur. - Mr President, let me thank the Commissioner and both Presidents for their contributions and all the Members of the House who contributed.
Lastly, there is a need for the EIB and the EBRD to work together with other international and regional financial institutions - such as the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank and the African Development Bank - in order to promote development in areas further afield from Europe.
rapporteur. - (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I note that there is a large consensus in this House regarding the legal basis for the European Investment Bank's new External Lending Mandate.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 25 March 2009.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (IT) The role of the EIB in the implementation of European development and cohesion policy has become increasingly important.
