Cloning of animals for food supply (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question - to the Commission by Neil Parish, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the cloning of animals for food supply.
The problems with cloning concern not only the welfare of animals but also consumer confidence in food that may come from cloned animals.
EFSA's opinion cites a study where out of 2 170 cattle receiving embryos only 106 live births occurred - 4.9% - and only 82 survived more than two days.
Therefore, again, there is the risk of producing an animal that is not as strong and as healthy.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I want to thank Mr Parish for raising this question, because it is a question to which the Commission has given a lot of consideration and considers important, and it is indeed something which preoccupies us.
The European Commission - as Mr Parish said - has asked EFSA to provide an opinion on food safety, animal health, animal welfare and the environmental implications of the use of live animal clones.
The final opinion was adopted on 15 July this year, and the Commission is now evaluating the necessary steps to be taken.
In 2004 the Commission also financed a pan-European research project called Cloning in Public, addressing ethical, legal and other societal aspects of farm animal cloning.
The project was coordinated by the Danish Centre for Bioethics and Risk Assessment and aimed to promote public debate on the issue of biotechnology.
One thing is quite clear, namely that animal health equates with food safety.
Mrs Schierhuber and Mr Parish have both said that there is still a huge amount of risk, that there are no real, appropriate controls or monitoring, and there are inadequate test samples, inadequate trials, and any trials relate only to pigs and cattle, so there is a huge amount of risk.
Consumers are increasingly sensitive with regard to the suffering of, and injuries to, farm animals.
We should reject it on moral grounds in the name of respect for animals, but also in the name of our own humanity.
I listened to the first part in my office and it was riveting - which can be rare for a European Parliament debate - because it is practical.
Therefore, while my immediate reaction as a Member of the Committee on Agriculture was to support this resolution - I am glad we raised this issue and applaud the Committee and its Chair for doing so - my gut instinct now is that Mr Purvis is perhaps on the right track, and that an outright ban might be a step too far.
Expert opinion states that cloning does not alter genetic material and clones are merely genetic copies of animals.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 3 September at 11.30 a.m.
in writing. - (SK) I was amazed when reading the text of this resolution.
Lucky animals, because this resolution also shows that they are in some cases better protected than man.
