Statement by the President Before turning to the topic of this morning's debate I should like to make a brief statement in the presence of the President-in-Office of the Council on the grave developments in the Middle East over the past several days.
We have a responsibility in our Parliament in this unfolding tragedy to do anything that we can to prevent the holy places being transformed into killing fields.
The EU's High Representative knows that our Parliament stands squarely behind him in his efforts in favour of peace and for a ceasefire.
I think that you were right just now to recall our decision to invite President Arafat and Mr Peres.
I suggest that we act on this decision and that this delegation be a high-level one, comprising, for example, the presidents of our groups or even Parliament's President.
I believe it should be emphasised that the UN, the European Union, the United Sates and Russia need to work together if we are to find a light to guide us out of the darkness of the current conflict in the Middle East.
This message should go out loud and clear, Mr President of the Council, particularly because it is important for the Council of Ministers to present a united front on this matter, and support the work of our representative in the Middle East.
This debate is not about the Middle East, as we want to discuss enlargement, but it is our profound conviction that we will be successful in the fight against terrorism only if we, that is the United States of America and the European Union, support the peace process between Israel and Palestine with equal determination and in the same way, something on which there could be stronger signals from the West, to which we belong.
Mr President, I should simply like to thank you for your words and say that, if ever a delegation did go to Ramallah and Jerusalem, I hope that it would be able to meet not only representatives of the institutions but also some representatives of civil society in Palestine and Israel, because I believe that peace will only be restored in the Middle East if civil society is mobilised.
I trust that this declaration will be endorsed by other international players present and also that it will be a step towards attaining that longed-for peace which often still seems to be light years away.
Mr President, I should now like to move on to the subject of this first speech, namely the enlargement of the European Union.
It was stated that negotiations with all those countries sufficiently prepared should be completed by the end of 2002.
Furthermore, as I mentioned previously, it is essential to comply with the budgetary ceilings set in Berlin.
I am confident we will all work together to reach such agreement, overcoming the difficulties we are currently experiencing as a result of the sensitive nature of these chapters in the negotiations.
The ultimate aim is to ensure that we are in a position to conclude negotiations with those candidate countries that are genuinely ready by the Copenhagen European Council at the end of the year.
I believe that the present time requires us to demonstrate that all the political institutions of the European Union share common ground and a determination that the violence in the Middle East should come to an end and that common sense must be given a chance.
It is still, then, our objective to welcome all those candidate countries that are sufficiently prepared as new members before the 2004 European elections, and prospects for this are good.
As envisaged in the road map, the Commission will, in the coming weeks, be submitting drafts of the common positions on the chapters on agriculture, regional policy, budgets and institutions.
Apart from that, we intend this year to open all the outstanding negotiating chapters with Bulgaria and Romania and to present a more developed and enhanced strategy to prepare these countries for accession.
The Commission, too, is at present re-examining all the legal aspects of this issue.
I am already able, though, to tell you today that the Czech government has declared to the Commission its readiness to act and ask the Czech legislature to change the legal position if it should transpire that present legal practice cannot be reconciled with European law.
On completion of Poland and Lithuania's accession processes, Kaliningrad will become a Russian enclave within the European Union.
Substantially more than just agreement on a transit order is at stake, and a great deal more than a solution to the question of visas.
The Commission has already, over the past year, set out its thinking on the issues to be dealt with and emphasised its willingness to enter into dialogue.
I would, though, like to make it clear that separate negotiations with Russia on the Kaliningrad issue cannot be carried on within the framework of the enlargement process.
The decisive question will be how the Kaliningrad region can successfully be included in the dynamic of the Baltic region's development.
No breakthrough has as yet been achieved, and there are as yet no definite agreements, but I could see that convergence has been achieved to an extent that would have been considered impossible even only a short time ago.
The Commission remains in close contact with the United Nations in order to ensure that any political solution is compatible with the provisions of European law in force.
It is from our point of view crucial that Cyprus, being subject to international law, should be able to act at an international level, speaking with one voice in the institutions of the European Union and should be able to implement and enforce within its own territory the international undertakings that it enters into.
Over and above that, we want enlargement to come about under conditions acceptable to all sides.
Enlargement must, though, be on a sound financial footing and also manageable in the long term.
In preparing the common negotiating position in the coming weeks, the Commission will be guided by the following principles: Firstly, that the ground rules have been clear ever since the 1999 Berlin decision on Agenda 2000.
The Berlin global upper limits will not be exceeded even if we now accept up to ten new Member States, whereas the decisions taken in Berlin assumed six.
After accession, the new Member States will pay full contributions to the budget, whilst some of the structural and agricultural policy measures will become effective in budget terms only after a certain time delay.
In addition, the Commission will be presenting a report to the European Council in Seville on the realisation of the action plans to build up administrative capacity in the candidate countries.
Like Commissioner Verheugen, the President-in-Office of the Council again put the emphasis on timing.
It was indeed our Group that proposed that the negotiations should be conducted in such a way that the first countries to join the EU should be able to take part in the 2004 European elections.
This makes it necessary that we should complete negotiations by the end of this year and by the beginning of 2003 at the latest.
There is of course still much work to be done, as we all know.
Perhaps, in our discussions with Russia, we might also ensure that there are immediate and direct links between Kaliningrad, formerly Königsberg, and the European Union and its Member States.
It is, though, also an economic opportunity, as trade between the European Union and the central European states has in the meantime almost equalled in scale our trade with the United States of America.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Verheugen was entirely right to say that we are in the final phase of an irreversible process.
In Parliament, the overwhelming majority of Members took the view that this was not the case.
It would, though, lead to a dangerous paralysis in the European Union and, furthermore, such a paralysis that there would an even greater threat of people turning away from the European Union.
You referred to the need for Parliament to give its support in this.
We are an important partner because we, in this House, will see to it that the democratic reforms needed at the heart of the European Union are actually carried out before the new Member States join, in other words before the European elections.
It may well be true, as the President-in-Office said, that for us these countries will have waited a "mere" 15 years to join the Union.
I believe it is incumbent upon us to do all we can to speed up the process of enlargement.
President, you have emphasised that we have a responsibility for reuniting our divided continent.
This means, in Barcelona, agreeing important economic reforms, finding the way towards reform of the common agricultural policy, and moving towards reforms of our institutions.
We must recommit ourselves to the package of legislative measures in the financial services action plan, unblocking discussions in the Council.
If we are to fulfil our objective of staying within the financial perspectives, enlargement must also mean reform of the common agricultural policy.
Our institutions and our decision-making procedures are like a Trabant, when what we need is a Mercedes.
Here, above all, what is called for is a responsible approach from our Member States.
It is damaging, when a Community of 25 or 27 will need a strong Executive in the Commission, if the Head of Government of one of our large Member States accuses the Commission of a bias against his country, of wanting to smash the culture of one of his industrial producers, and of singling out his country.
If we are to insist on a responsible approach from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, then we need a more responsible approach ourselves.
I hope that as we move towards the Danish Presidency later this year and the historic decisions on enlargement, we will see a responsible, united and purposeful Western Europe welcoming these new democracies into the democratic fold.
I also believe that transitional periods are possible until 2007 at the latest.
We need an agricultural policy under which aid is linked in with ecological and social criteria and projects are funded only if they are compatible with the reform.
We heard about developments from the fall of the Berlin Wall until the present time.
I fear that, when it dawns upon them what conditions we are offering them, the people of Eastern and Central Europe will vote 'no' in the final referendums, and that would in my view be a catastrophe.
I should very much like to be involved in campaigning for the rich Member States to be required to pay for the project, and that also applies to my own country.
Mr President, the EU Convention comes at a very important moment in the life of the European Union.
The Laeken Declaration made clear both the extent of the achievements of the European Union over the past 45 years and the scale of the challenges which it now faces.
The debate we are holding here today relates to the enlargement of the European Union.
The enthusiasm and determination of the candidate countries seeking to join the EU provide the clearest proof that the European Union is an enormous success story.
I very much welcome the participation of representatives from the parliaments of the applicant countries in the Convention and look forward to the fresh insight they will bring to its workings.
The regulations and directives enacted through the three decision-making procedures in Europe must be streamlined and simplified.
The Göteborg European Council decided that those applicant countries which are ready to join the European Union may complete accession negotiations by the end of this year.
The enlargement of the Union is the number one policy priority of all key European Union legislators.
Our resolve and courage at these enlargement negotiations must match those which the candidate countries themselves are showing in enacting wide-ranging new laws as they prepare to join the European Union as full members.
The Spanish Presidency is now dealing with the most difficult enlargement negotiations, notably agriculture, the structural funds and budgetary matters.
I am confident that both sides can reach agreement on these chapters of the talks and reach a conclusion that is - and must be - fair and balanced.
The applicant countries have made substantial progress in meeting the Copenhagen criteria, with regard both to the transposition of legislation and to the implementation of new European regulations and directives covering a wide range of economic and social sectors.
The significant advances made by the applicant countries in terms of enacting new EU legislation have certainly ensured that the enlargement negotiations can proceed at a stronger pace.
Undoubtedly, substantial progress has been made in increasing the independence, transparency and efficiency of public administrations in the applicant countries, as well as in improving the operation of their legal systems.
This year will undoubtedly be a decisive one for the enlargement process and for the future of Europe.
In the Convention, the national parliaments met and appointed their two representatives in the Bureau, without the representatives from the candidate countries being called at all.
On 25 February, I submitted a proposal to the effect that the candidate countries should themselves be able to elect two representatives to the Bureau.
The proposal was neither circulated nor debated.
There is the risk of a situation in which the EU is run on an intergovernmental basis by representatives of large countries who, in that way, act together supranationally in relation to the smaller countries.
It would be cheaper and more sensible to phase out price support in the EU before enlargement and to provide the candidate countries and our own farmers with compensation.
Russia is also mainly responsible for proposals on cooperation and participation in financing.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, in this debate on enlargement I should like to emphasise an aspect which is not part of the negotiations as such, but which will be very significant for the success of the new accessions.
I wish to talk about the statements which are made from time to time - and too often for my liking - by the leaders of candidate countries, political declarations which emphasise the bilateral conflicts between neighbouring countries in Central Europe, countries which today aspire to join the European Union.
For my part, however, I deeply regret the climate of mutual mistrust of which this controversy is symptomatic.
Of course we can understand their terrific thirst for freedom and independence after so many years of oppression.
However, there is a difference between theory and practice, and the reality is of course that the situation of women in the candidate countries has not been improved following the fall of the Berlin Wall.
I would therefore ask the Commission and the Council to answer the question of whether special initiatives are being taken with regard to women in the countries concerned.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, it is my personal belief, and one I share with my party and my group, that there can be no going back on enlargement towards the East.
Regarding economic uncertainties, it has been claimed that after 2006 the European budget could be maintained with 1.27% of European GDP.
Finally, I believe the issue of eastwards enlargement should lead us to reflect on the kind of Europe we are aiming for.
The candidates from Central and Eastern Europe have, on average, reached not even half the gross domestic product of the European Union, and the three Baltic States have only managed one-third.
The Treaty of Amsterdam, in fact, lays down that a high level of health protection is guaranteed in the drawing-up and implementation of all Community policies and activities.
Mr President, this debate contains one overall message, namely that membership of the European Union constitutes something along the lines of maximum political good fortune for the Member States and for the EU as a whole.
I wish that assumption were correct, but I am unfortunately convinced that the message of the EU project will reveal itself to be a huge and fearful illusion.
In my view, clarity in this connection is crucial in order to keep our population in the positive frame of mind with regard to enlargement.
Here, too, it must be clear that a date for the beginning of negotiations with Turkey cannot be named in isolation from fulfilment of the Copenhagen political criteria.
All of what the Commission has presented will indeed last us until 2006.
If ten countries actually are added in 2004, the EUR 3 billion left over would be for two countries, Bulgaria and Romania.
Mr President-in-Office, this morning you introduced this topic for us.
Mr President, we have made a considerable number of requests of the candidate countries - we have set a whole series of criteria - but from time to time it is good to reflect on our duties, and I should like to mention three of these.
Here it seems to me that there is a lack of information in our countries.
Secondly, we need to rethink cohesion policy, taking into account the points mentioned by the Commission in its second report.
Finally, we need to reflect on the issue of federalism and democracy in an enlarged European Union.
I see them as not only a bilateral problem; they continue to be applicable in law, and the question therefore arises of whether they are compatible with Article 6 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The ethnic cleansings and expulsions in the most recent wars in the Balkans have without doubt revealed a European dimension.
The international jurist Felix Ermacora came to the conclusion, in a legal opinion on the Bene?
If the present financial framework can cope with enlargement, it should perhaps be retained until an overall assessment of the new financial situation is available.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt about it, agriculture is at present certainly one of the most difficult chapters to negotiate in the enlargement process.
We also support the Commission proposals for direct payments to the new Member States to start by being made gradually and in a form related to area rather than to production following their accession and for rural development programmes independent of production to be markedly topped up with resources, in order to avoid social dumping, among other things, in countries such as Poland.
This does not mean, though, that the Common Agricultural Policy was not in need of reform, both in our own states and in the candidate countries, whether enlargement took place or not.
Secondly, setting in motion a further development of Community policies for the post-2006 period, ever bearing in mind that eastward enlargement and the world trade round are running in parallel.
We must recognise the efforts of these countries but, at the same time, we must also ask ourselves some questions about the more sensitive aspects of this process.
What do you intend to do, Mr Commissioner and Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to speed up the process of integration and approximation of the Balkans to the Union?
The second point I should like to make concerns relations with the Mediterranean countries.
With continued enlargement, on the one hand we are taking up an historical challenge that we do not, of course, want to miss, but on the other we must also do what we can so that the identity of our cultures and our peoples is not lost.
Commissioner, you were right to observe that problems of a legal, but also political and moral, nature have arisen and are certainly of relevance to the process of integration.
In particular, enlargement incorporating the countries in Central and Eastern Europe, and those to the North, overcomes the historic burdens laid upon us by Yalta, at last overcoming the division of Europe, and benefiting us all, especially countries such as Austria and Germany, who will profit directly from the growing markets at their front door!
Mr President, I would like to thank all the honourable Members who took the floor.
In addition, there is universal awareness of the need to abide by the timetable we set ourselves to ensure that many of today's candidate countries can participate in the next elections to the European Parliament in 2004 and be represented in this House.
At present we are all thinking in terms of a maximum of 10 countries, and of concluding negotiations by the end of 2002.
Where freedom, the consolidation of democracy, social justice, modernisation and economic progress were concerned, Europe always was a lodestar for Spain.
Anyone in favour of enlargement and meeting the deadlines set must be aware that either we continue in the present vein or we shall fail.
The European Union has demonstrated a clear political will concerning enlargement.
That political will does not, however, imply that a political decision has been taken to close negotiations with ten candidates before the end of the year.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to thank Parliament most warmly for the wide-ranging support it has given the Presidency of the Council and the Commission in the enlargement process, and I consider it highly significant that this common purpose and cooperation are continuing.
A couple of very short observations: Firstly, it seems to me that I again need to point out very clearly that we may not impose new conditions for enlargement, no matter how desirable it may be to push forward certain reforms within the policies and also within the structure of the European Union.
We negotiate in such a way that we remain within the bounds of what is financially possible, and we do not enter into financial commitments for the post-2006 period.
I surely do not have to explain to Parliament that it is not even possible to negotiate in such a way as to produce financial commitments that Parliament and the budgetary authority have not covered.
My position as a member of the European Commission does not, unfortunately, permit me to express my thoughts on the subject.
I might perhaps be permitted to observe that the European Union's budget permits neither tax increases nor indebtedness, so that we really cannot budget more than the Member States make available to us as contributions, and perhaps every Minister of Finance in the European Union ought to be aware that that is the case.
I agree with all those who say that, beyond the subjects of the negotiations themselves, there are issues and problems that should be resolved before we come to any decisions, as we do not want to have to drag burdens from the past behind us on our way into our common European future.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the debate on the statement by the Council and the Commission on Transatlantic relations, including steel import tariffs.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to thank this House for giving me the opportunity to speak, on behalf of the Council, on the current state of transatlantic relations.
I believe this reveals Parliament's sensitivity with regard to the European Union's foreign policy and, moreover, it is a timely initiative in view of the events of recent months and the forthcoming Summit meeting between the European Union and the United States, the first since 11 September.
The relationship between the European Union and the United States is based on strong and long-standing ties between our respective peoples and governments, and rests on fundamental values such as the respect for human rights, personal freedom, the rule of law, a democratic form of government and the system of free trade.
Experience has shown on many occasions that, when the European Union and the United States act together in harmony, we can make a decisive contribution to generating a positive dynamic for world change, fostering the establishment of democratic regimes, seeking greater trade and investment opportunities, reducing poverty in less favoured societies, or overseeing environmental protection on a global scale.
Less than twenty-four hours after the odious attacks on New York and Washington on 11 September, the European Union expressed its total solidarity with the United States Government and the American people.
On 20 September, the European Union and the United States committed themselves to work together within a broad coalition to combat the scourge of terrorism.
The Presidency accords the highest priority to furthering this cooperation between the European Union and the United States in the fight against terrorism, particularly with a view to European Union-United States Ministerial meeting that will take place in Madrid on 10 April and the EU-US Summit to be held in Washington on 2 May.
The Presidency wants to present the Council with a draft mandate so that it can announce its decision on 25 April.
International affairs are another fundamental element in the exchange of information and points of view that form part of transatlantic dialogue.
Mr President, the European Union and the United States also share one of the most complex, rich and varied economic and trading relationships in the world.
Trade between us is worth almost EUR 1 200 million every day, representing roughly 37% of world trade in commodities and 45% of trade in services.
Direct investment by the European Union in the United States stands at approximately EUR 675 000 million.
The decision adopted at the WTO meeting of Ministers, held in Doha last November, to initiate negotiations for a new multilateral trade round is a clear example of the beneficial effects of European-American cooperation, which can overcome our divergent aims and interests for the sake of a greater common goal.
The Presidency underlines the need to use the as yet untapped potential of commercial relations to transcend any process of crisis and confrontation and transform it into a process of cooperation.
I am convinced that, in this way, we shall be able to address other ongoing disputes, such as those of the Foreign Sales Corporations or genetically modified organisms, or the more recent dispute on the trade in steel.
On this point, I must specifically mention the appearance of this new disagreement with the United States, as a consequence of the decision announced on 5 March to impose safeguard measures against imports of certain steel products.
The imposition of tariffs of up to 30%, depending on the case, reflects a worrying trend in the United States towards unilateral protectionist options that ruin the efforts that the European Union and other producing countries made in Paris under the auspices of the OECD.
All the Member States and the Council support the measures adopted by the Commission, and in particular the policy being implemented by Commissioner Lamy.
I assure you that the Presidency takes this matter very seriously and, with regard to future developments, it will remain in close contact with the Commission and the Member States, determined to adopt appropriate measures whenever necessary to safeguard the interests of the Union.
We managed to reach a consensus between the European Union and the United States, which all countries worldwide have also agreed to.
This is not the case in the environmental field, however, where the European Union has just taken an important step forwards in ratifying the Kyoto Protocol at the last Council meeting of Ministers for the Environment only a few days ago, whereas the United States, with the adoption of the recent programme announced by President Bush, seems to be moving further away from this goal.
Even in this case, however, when our positions seem so far apart, the Presidency believes in building bridges and, in the next few weeks, we shall be holding a high-level meeting within the working party set up at the Gothenburg transatlantic summit.
The opportunities that each of us has to influence the others' actions positively and for the benefit of all are by no means negligible, and the European Union, which is ever more European and ever more united, must fully accept its responsibility as the friend and ally of the United States.
The Presidency will therefore do its utmost to ensure that our relations with the United States are fully developed and, together with the Member States and the Commission, it will spare no effort to make the summit planned for 2 May in Washington satisfy both sides' expectations.
I will take these points in reverse, not to contradict the Presidency - quite the opposite; I think that we are working very well together - but because inevitably the Commission is more preoccupied with recent events.
Once again, the United States has on this occasion reinvented what we might call intermittent free trade: one day it works, the next day it does not.
In fact, these decisions are intended to transfer the burden of restructuring the American steel industry onto the rest of the world, and in particular onto us.
We are probably the main victim of these measures, given our export flows and the quality of the products which we have been exporting to the United States.
After all - and this is the most important thing - we need to protect our own market against the risk of a deflection of trade in steel products which, as I have said, will no longer be able to enter the United States.
We have initiated all of the procedures to this end and we are going to take measures which are commensurate with the risks posed by this influx of imports.
Because we do not consider the world market to be the Wild West, where anyone can act as they see fit.
There are rules and regulations which here, as in other cases, guarantee the smooth functioning of the multilateral system, and we think, taking our lead from the Council and this House, that the medium and long-term interests of the Union are best served by ensuring the smooth functioning of a regulated multilateral system.
The Commission, in close collaboration with all of the stakeholders - the Council, Parliament, the metallurgical industry and its unions - has decided to respond vigorously using all of the means at its disposal.
We are going to protect our companies and our jobs from the potentially devastating indirect effects of these measures and we will continue to hammer home our argument that the American decision is bad for the American economy, bad for our steel industry and bad for world trade.
Like the President-in-Office of the Council, I consider these to be generally of high quality and to represent the greatest volume of bilateral trade and investment in the world.
These trade disputes which sometimes hit the headlines only concern, let us remember, a limited proportion of our trade.
We also have a more positive agenda to manage with the United States, on both a multilateral and bilateral level.
Of course we always have bilateral priorities for the Transatlantic Economic Partnership and we continue to support the idea that we need to work together on positive measures to boost bilateral trade.
We need to show tenacity and think in the medium and long term about mutual recognition, regulatory cooperation, food safety or data protection.
In many cases we have achieved results, even if all of these subjects do not always capture the imagination of the press.
We need to reflect on other initiatives which might have a little more political resonance or visibility, so as to breathe new life into a transatlantic agenda which some of you now consider to have become too much of a ritual, even sometimes to have run out of steam altogether.
In addition, with a view to the next transatlantic summit, we have started considering the advisability of taking initiatives in this field.
The clementines matter has still not been resolved and neither have the dispute over duty-free American exports nor the case of foreign sales corporations, which is obviously significant.
Our policy in these matters remains clear: we need to respect the international rules.
I will close by addressing the general state of transatlantic relations, which the Council Presidency has already commented on at length.
I believe that 11 September had actually raised hopes that the United States' diplomacy and international attitude were going to become a little more multilateral.
The Commission considers that if, in the light of recent events, any changes are required, then they probably consist more than ever in the need to have strong multilateral institutions and greater implementation of international law.
This is the message which we try to get over to our American counterparts at our meetings.
The next key date will be the transatlantic summit on 2 May.
On this occasion we will spare no effort to try and relaunch a number of collaborative projects between the United States and Europe, on the fight against drugs, on judicial cooperation and, why not, on preparing for the Johannesburg Summit, when I believe that the world will need both the United States and Europe.
I believe that we have reached one of those critical stages in the development of the transatlantic relationship in its global context.
Firstly, looking at the overall relationship, it is quite clear - as our two speakers have said - that since 11 September 2001 we have seen a significant change in the way in which the Americans view their place in the world.
We see an America under attack - one which we recognised on 12 September in this House, but which perhaps we now fail to recognise six months on.
We see the military gap widening and perhaps difficulties also in expanding NATO operations.
Thirdly, the strong impetus that came with the 1995 New Transatlantic Agenda now appears to be under threat because of a lack of political vision and, perhaps, frustration at the lack of results among many of the parties involved in the dialogues.
In conclusion, it is up to you to provide leadership.
We must be tough and take the necessary action to protect our interests in this steel dispute, but also think of the broader context and form a vision of how the transatlantic partnership should look in the 21st century.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the framework for our transatlantic relations, I believe we have to start with the current framework, which is the Madrid Declaration of December 1995, issued under the Spanish Presidency.
I really must say to the President-in-Office of the Council that I believe this declaration should be brought up to date, for various reasons.
First, because of the situation since 11 September: we have not merely shown our solidarity with the United States, but we have also adopted measures.
In this fight, however, as in all others - I must be frank about this - we are allies, but we have to work together on an equal footing, and our American allies - as some ministers in the Union have said - must understand that we are equals and subservience has no place here, which means that we must not systematically bow to unilateral decisions.
Therefore, we would ask the Commission and, of course, the Council, as a matter of urgency to try and negotiate bilateral voluntary export restraint agreements with these countries, so as to avoid the diversion from steel going to America to Europe happening in the first place.
The second point is this: let us not be squeamish; this decision was taken for domestic political reasons.
The FSC dispute provides us with the best means by which to inflict the domestic pressure which is absolutely necessary in order to get some change in the American attitude and to reassert the international rule of law, rather than the rule of the law of George Bush's economic jungle.
But let there be no mistake: 11 September has accelerated a process that was started long before, namely the forging of a new alliance between the EU and the United States.
Many structural causes play a role in this: the EU's stronger, enhanced role as an economic superpower, the end of the Cold War and, related to this, a shift in the role for the United States in Europe.
What is more, the French and British governments should be urged to clarify once and for all their stance on nuclear weapons.
This will give us a unique opportunity to step up the pressure on both sides, and we are also committed to ensuring that our own human rights policy remains credible.
The EU needs the United States if things get out of hand, but the United States needs the EU to ensure that things do not get too out of hand.
However, I am also particularly grateful to Mr Lagendijk for identifying the key events so clearly.
I wish to call on the European Union to counter this trend towards genuine multilateralism and the strengthening of the UN, and it should take advantage of its position as a civilian power, a power that practises preventive conflict resolution, and it should actually develop a common foreign policy.
The European NATO Member States carry increasingly less military weight.
Passing on the weakness of its own steel industry to that of other countries by levying a 30% import tariff for three years only steps up the tension in transatlantic relations.
In addition, this one-sided American government measure jeopardises the new trade round within the WTO.
Above all, the intervention has an adverse effect on the American economy: the protection of 9 000 jobs in the American steel industry translates into a possible loss of no fewer than 75 000 jobs in other economic sectors due to higher steel prices.
The debate is adjourned.
Several times in this House I have protested about this totally unacceptable invasion of our system, which has no place here and is causing serious problems for Members.
They are led by Senator Leonard Gustaffson.
I would accordingly ask you to refrain from voting on paragraph 1.
Mr Corbett, I understand you know something about the Rules.
We feel that these amendments actually improve the quality and clarity of the text.
We can accept in part Amendments Nos 4, 15, 16 and 19 and we reject Amendments Nos 3, 5, 13 and 21 as well as 23 and 25.
The President has, along with the group chairmen, initiated a debate on how we can make the plenary more interesting.
It has the right of initiative and can decide anyway.
If there are 12 Members standing their places against an oral amendment then it cannot be put.
As this Article has gone now, I propose that we attach this Article 72 to Article 16, paragraph 2.
That is why I would like to speak at three different stages: first now about the block vote, then later on about Amendment No 162 and then once again on amendments Nos 149 and 184.
The problem that we have here is that in committee we did not make a decision on this subject as regards electricity, but we did in the case of gas.
We are bringing forward something for gas that we do not want to bring forward in the case of electricity - the progress of market opening, as proposed by the committee.
That means that by analogy we should be opposing Amendment No 147, but I simply do not know how we do that procedurally speaking, because in the voting list that is included in the block.
I admire your efforts to make the work of this House rational although there is nothing in the Rules that says we have to be rational.
Before the vote on Amendment No. 136: Mr President, this a bit simpler than just now.
The intention of Amendment No 162, a joint PSE and PPE-DE amendment, is to bring what we agreed for electricity in line with what we are now agreeing on for gas.
Before the vote on Amendment No. 149: Mr President, this is about another adjustment, but this is rather more complicated than the one we had just now.
We would then have eliminated the inconsistency between electricity and gas and the internal inconsistency in the case of gas. (Applause) Just to confuse my colleagues, it is not exactly correct, because if we vote for the EPP Group's amendment, then we will have a different wording on Article 22 which is the Article on the electricity and gas regulator.
I will leave it to the wisdom of the Assembly, but personally, I will vote against this in order to be consistent with Article 22.
I would therefore ask you to approve the two oral amendments and to vote accordingly.
The services tell me they were already aware of this, so that technical adjustment has been made.
Mr President, the Council common position on the liberalisation of postal services guarantees that there will be a controlled opening of the market in these services in Europe.
First the Commission and then the Council of Ministers showed that they are either unaware of or systematically underestimate the fact that alongside and in addition to the service which they provide to the public, the postal services play a significant social role in all of the Member States and in all of the regions of the Union.
Just as it would appear justifiable that the Commission should wish to concern itself with cross-border mail distribution, so it seems to us that internal distribution should be the responsibility of each State.
Commissioner Bolkestein has just explained to this House that we need to "move forward towards the completion of the internal market for postal services".
The internal market already exists and Commissioner Bolkestein is only betraying the fact that, for the Commission, the real objective is quite different: it is unification, of which we have no need whatsoever.
This issue raises another general question: the interface between the Commission's competence in matters of competition (where it now enjoys inordinate powers) and the Member States' competence to organise national public services.
We reject the text as a whole because we are completely opposed to any privatisation of postal services and to any notion of these services being for profit.
In rejecting the Council's text, we reject the overall policy pursued by national governments and the European institutions, a policy to demolish public services, a retrograde policy, harmful both to users of the postal service and to workers in this sector.
That is why I signed the amendments seeking to have the Commission submit regular reports to the European Parliament on the development of the internal market.
That is also why I signed the amendment with the Greens setting the weight limit, as at first reading, at 150 grams (with pricing conditions).
First and foremost, I should like to thank both the rapporteur in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, Mr Markus Ferber, and all of the Members of that committee for their proposal.
It is unacceptable because it rejects Parliament's initial proposal to limit the next stage of liberalisation to 150g and four times the basic tariff, and yet does not give any guarantee that a high level of social cohesion will be maintained.
Nevertheless, I will vote in favour of the common position for lack of anything better, because if we were to try to amend the text again we would run the risk of seeing the common position fail; we would therefore be running the risk of not having any directive on postal services and consequently of this sector being fully liberalised within two years.
That is why we voted to reject the common position and we will continue to defend the postal service as a public service.
This is the only position which guarantees continued high quality for users and free access for everyone, in particular for those living in rural and working-class areas.
One would expect that advocates of political and economic unification would strive towards the integration of public postal companies of all the Member States and towards single European stamps.
At first reading, the majority of the EP rejected a further weight decrease of postage under 150 grams for distribution in a competitive market, as well as more far-reaching forms of liberalisation in due course.
Each Member State should retain full control over how it organises its public services.
We are against the Monnet method being applied today to postal services and tomorrow to other public services.
Provided that progress is made on the internal market, the Commission is prepared to take the risk, tomorrow, of the social function of postal services being ignored, of the territorial coverage of our countries being eroded, of a deterioration in the quality of the services provided and of an appreciable increase in costs.
This desire had, moreover, caused some tension last December when the Commission presented its programme for 2002.
Today, the agreement between the Commission and the European Parliament, which has just been adopted, sets out a timetable for the year n-1 for us to work together to draft the work programme for the year n.
Such a timetable would be even more justified, and for three reasons: 1) the Council is the European institution with the deepest democratic roots because it is based on national parliaments; 2) theoretically, unlike the European Parliament, it already has real power to push forward and guide the work of the Commission, pursuant to Article 4 of the TEU; 3) finally, the Council has an overview of the work which needs to be done at European level across the three pillars of the Treaty, including the initiatives taken by Member States in the intergovernmental pillar.
In the absence of clarification on this point, the Malmström report appears more than anything to be a man?uvre by the two old connivers, the Commission and the European Parliament, to throw out the primordial rights of the Council.
It is the case, however, that this valuable report, which protects working people against noise in the workplace could have had unintended side effects on the music industry.
I think I am the only piper in this House, so I am particularly pleased about that!
These positions are contained in the relevant amendments tabled by the European Parliament, which is why I supported them, but are not included in the Council's common position.
We must also welcome the willingness of the Council to take on board many of the amendments proposed by Parliament in its first reading and we hope that the goodwill shown by the Parliament will be reciprocated in the future.
So that this directive is as effective as possible, we should work with existing tools and avoid duplication.
Mr President, I regret the vote that took place today.
Some Members of this House took a ridiculous approach in saying I should be recommending that people eat more oranges and vegetables.
What has happened here today has played right into the hands of the pharmaceutical industry, which will now have more customers because more people are going to fall ill.
Mr President, may I just say that the whole discussion on this directive shows that there is an urgent need to make laws and rules clearer.
Mr President, the European Parliament has decided against the right of European citizens to be able unrestrictedly to enjoy natural medicines, which are completely free from side effects.
In upholding the demands of a powerful lobby of the multinational drug companies, this directive therefore goes against a substantive right and the widespread interest of European consumers.
This is so obvious that, for example, the French employers' organisation in this sector sent a fax to all of the Members of the European Parliament with the openly cynical title: 'The French food supplements industry thanks in advance those who represent it in the European Parliament for voting in favour of the directive.' Well, those who 'represent' these people can vote for this report and the directive!
This recommendation meets these aspirations, in particular by proposing an adequate European legal framework which does not hinder the free movement of these products, while guaranteeing increased health protection for the consumer and accurate and appropriate information on the products available.
On the basis of the experience it gains in this field, I should like the Commission to present to the European Parliament and the Council additional proposals, accompanied by appropriate legal measures, on other nutriments and substances which can have comparable effects to food supplements.
Let us not forget that absorbing excessive quantities of some vitamins and minerals can have undesirable or harmful effects.
However, the economic interest of Mathias Rath, who dispatches products from the Netherlands to customers in Germany, where his products are banned, cannot justify an adaptation of the law.
I should like to make two essential remarks on the points which I advocated in the parliamentary committee.
The European Union's decisions must be consistent.
Consequently, to ensure consistency and the correct application of the rules, there is no reason to include these facilities in the scope of a second regulation with the same objectives.
In fact we already know that, because of treatment and disposal capacity (incineration or landfill), measures which have to be implemented at too short notice cannot be applied at Community level if they cover effluent - whether category 1 or category 2 - from wastewater treatment plants at slaughterhouses, which are often shared facilities.
These shortcomings mainly came to light when the ban on animal meal in animal feed was imposed, forcing the Member States to store large quantities of animal meal while waiting for it to be incinerated.
The BSE crisis of recent years must never again threaten European consumers, farmers and the beef industry.
I believe that great credit is due to the Commission for systematically putting forward a series of legislative proposals which aim to address each and every one of the issues surrounding the original crisis.
Many actions and measures taken have brought with them great sacrifice and we must remain conscious of that.
This particular proposal aims to establish a single legal framework to clarify conditions for treating animal by-products.
We have seen the damage that can be wreaked from a more lax approach.
This means awarding the prize of supplying electricity to more than 300 million Europeans to large private groups.
How many times have I already said and repeated that?
The provision of essential public services and its impact in terms of regional planning must also be taken into account.
In spite of all this, following the request made by the European Council at its Lisbon Summit for rapid progress towards the completion of the single market in gas and electricity, the Commission has presented a communication, a draft regulation and a draft directive designed to speed up the liberalisation of the gas and electricity market with a view to the establishment of an entirely open market in 2005.
The Commission wishes to speed up the opening of the electricity market so as to give non-residential customers a free choice of supplier by 1 January 2003 and to extend the same opportunity to all electricity consumers not later than the beginning of January 2005.
In the case of gas, free choice of supplier is to be available to non-residential customers by 1 January 2004 and to all consumers by the start of January 2005.
Given the balance of power in the European Parliament and in Europe, it will be an arduous struggle.
This is why I voted against the report in the final vote.
If the final directive contains many of the useful amendments proposed by the Industry Committee, European energy consumers will operate in a considerably more favourable climate than they do at present.
The proposal to withdraw the aforementioned Hushkits Regulation from 1 April onwards mainly aims to avoid a trade war with America.
Anti-EU campaigns in countries such as Ireland have clearly demonstrated the need for a positive communication strategy.
Moreover, the practical policy prescriptions outlined in this report show that the EU is serious about becoming closer to European citizens and countering the common perception that it is run by an elite bureaucracy.
Focusing on issues which affect people's daily lives, such as food safety, the euro and justice and home affairs, will ensure that citizens fully engage in the debate about Europe.
Since the European Parliament is the European institution closest to European citizens, it would make sense for it to become the institution around which this information campaign revolves.
Mr President, I voted against the report before us because it does not live up to the expectations created by the title.
The threats posed by fundamentalism are growing in a way that the events of 11 September suggest involve an enormous contempt for humanity.
Mr President, during the vote one of my Dutch colleagues remarked that part of the report did not make sense in Dutch.
That is a system that works very well indeed.
Unfortunately, the European Parliament ultimately shied away from naming the plague that besets us, namely floods of unassimilated immigrants, often from countries with an Islamic culture.
Faced with this predicament, Parliament has taken refuge in sanitised statements or, even worse, has issued sweeping condemnations which seem to apply to all Europeans without distinction and which imbue everyone with an unwarranted sense of guilt.
To crown it all, the European Parliament recommends that the forthcoming directives on the right of asylum, based on the Treaty of Amsterdam, provide for reception of women from all parts of the world who suffer from 'fundamentalist persecution'.
We voted in favour of the condemnatory paragraphs and of the measures to assist women who are forced to flee from countries where women are the victims of systematic barbarism.
Although the report rightly condemns Islamic fundamentalism, it is considerably more discreet about the other forms of fundamentalism, notably the role of Catholicism, of which women are victims both outside and inside the European Union, in countries such as Ireland and Portugal or in some of the German Länder.
And the good resolutions adopted by the European Union against misogynous practices and the excesses of Islamic regimes would be more credible if the Union first put its own house in order by prohibiting discriminatory practices against women in its own Member States.
This is confirmed by the massive floods of e-mails that have inundated Members of the European Parliament and in which we are being urged to reject this report on the grounds that it is 'a threat to the dignity of women and to the right to life of every human being until his or her natural death'.
The struggle for the recognition of women's rights should be an integral part of the foreign policy of the European Union.
I am therefore against fundamentalism as the expression of a way of thinking that denies a person - man or woman - their freedom and the right to choose their own destiny, and It is my view that the European Union must, with every means at its disposal, uphold and promote respect for human rights wherever they are violated.
I cannot, however, accept the implicit censure of religious values and actual religion that the Izquierdo report makes, under cover of its censure of fundamentalism - and not only in relation to Christianity.
It is one thing to support the separation of Church and State, a position I fully share because it is the basis of the democratic system, but quite another to deny the Church and religious communities their right to freedom of expression in the name of secularity - in other words their right to interpret, according to their way of thinking, the facts of public and political life that govern citizens' lives.
By adopting this report today, the European Parliament has done the cause of the freedoms we wish to promote no favours, because behind the censure of fundamentalism there is in fact a new form of fundamentalism that they are trying to impose on us: secular fundamentalism, which is just as deserving of censure as any other, in that they all deny the freedom of the individual to choose his or her own model in life.
Implicit in this report are western cultural values which make a presumption against the rights of women in Islam.
I would question the wisdom of this parliament in producing this report and in doing so pass judgement on other cultures and their values.
I believe this report was based on an external view and with very narrow and limited experience of Islamic lifestyle.
I am deeply committed to equal opportunities for women everywhere, however, I believe it is crucial that women in different parts of the world can establish their own concept of freedom which takes into account the variety of different cultures and values they hold.
But the report also contains bad things and some very bad things.
The report systematically equates religion with fundamentalism in utter disregard of reality.
In fact, by some sleight of hand, paragraphs 18, 19, 21 and 24 use the fight against fundamentalism as a pretext to demand greater flexibility for governments to grant asylum to women from countries where fundamentalism is rife as well as using the framework of a preventive policy to secure the rapid social integration of the immigrants, refugees and minorities who are resident in the territory of the European Union.
The report is unbalanced, contradictory and undifferentiated, and accordingly totally undermines the battle against discrimination against women.
Freedom of religion and protection against discrimination are key aspects of fundamental rights that cannot be played off against each other, and that is why I voted against this report.
We also nurtured the hope that this report might provide a valuable contribution that would push things in the right direction wherever a push was needed.
Regrettably, our rapporteur and those who followed her lead have squandered a great opportunity; this is illustrated, incidentally, by the fact that the report was adopted by only 15 votes to 7 in the Committee on Women's Rights, while the opinion of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs was adopted by 18 votes with 11 abstentions.
The two women rapporteurs are members of the Socialist Group in this Parliament.
The uncooperative approach of the rapporteur for the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, and indeed her obstinate determination not to listen to reason and to throw everything into the one pot, if I may say so, means that I cannot vote in favour of this report; for one thing, it indiscriminately accuses all religions for practising a pernicious form of fundamentalism, and another, more important reason is that it seeks to manipulate this resolution to define details of the asylum and immigration policies of the European Union.
It is indisputably the case that women in large parts of the world are at present denied their rights and suffer oppression in the name of what we call religious, political or ideological fundamentalism.
Almost six months to the day after the events of 11 September, one can only be extremely surprised that, in the progress report on transatlantic relations which has been drawn up by the Presidency of the European Union, such a relatively small part has been devoted to the lessons to be drawn from those events.
When it comes to analysing the significance of 11 September, on the other hand, a considerable gulf is developing between the two sides of the Atlantic, with one side regarding it as an isolated operation and the other as a manifestation of the new global terrorist scene, dominated by hyperterrorism.
The communication from the Council indicates this.
The effective measures to deal with the nature and scale of the common threat is not its main concern and a very minimalist response seems to be envisaged.
This, Mr President, is a strange and dangerous divergence which may well seriously encumber transatlantic relations and our own security.
This means, therefore, that we would have to pay the price for the lack of restructuring in the United States.
However, what matters is that we should also use Barcelona to launch a diplomatic offensive in order to make it clear to the United States that protectionist measures of this kind only lead to major disruption in free trade and with it, to a huge upset in the creation of jobs.
Mr President, the Socialists have always formed part of a movement for worldwide peace.
Nobody can regulate the world on their own.
Perhaps the one good thing that could come out of President Bush's unilateral introduction of tariffs on steel imports would be a much-needed serious debate about the flaws and weaknesses inherent in the free-trade model, because there is growing opposition to the global inequality inherent in its diktat that every country must put international competitiveness above all other domestic concerns.
The reaction against this ranges from Indian farmers calling for an increase in tariffs to protect themselves from cheap food imports, through to steel workers, including fully restructured UK steel workers, who find that they will now still be unable to compete with Romanian steel exports.
Or we might consider the issue of a complete ban on all imports of US-produced GM foods, since US pressure exerted under free-trade rules has prevented EU ministers from reflecting popular opinion by banning such foods from markets here.
Let us begin with the decision to tax steel imports at rates of up to 30% and to impose quotas.
As the main exporter to the United States, the Union is the primary target of these measures.
What is more, this latest decision by the Bush Administration testifies to a strengthened desire on the part of the US Government to adopt a unilateral approach in numerous domains: on the commercial and economic as well as the cultural and military fronts, and this last front is the focus of deep concern.
The New York Times has just published a report indicating the existence of a secret Pentagon plan targeting Iraq, Iran, Libya, Syria and North Korea and even Russia and China.
The plan apparently envisages the possibility of using nuclear arms for offensive purposes, for example in the framework of an Arab-Israeli conflict.
To quote John Isaac, a leading figure in the voluntary sector in the United States, Doctor Strangelove is alive and well and working in the Pentagon.
The United States is redefining its role in the world around one single obsession, namely its own security.
The fight against terrorism, on the other hand, involves identifying its roots and seeking real solutions.
We can no longer be silent on the death penalty, a crime perpetrated by the state, where it is administered by a superpower that seeks to impose its order and its values on the world.
Numerous people, including US citizens, reject that vision of the world and aspire to globalisation based on solidarity.
We have been able to resolve many trade conflicts in a professional way that satisfied both sides, but only because we have accepted binding rules for free and fair world trade within the framework of the WTO, and also because the WTO is the only international organisation that has a dispute resolution system that also provides for sanctions.
Over the past few years, the European steel industry has had great success in carrying out restructuring, but this has involved enormous job losses, making this a very painful process.
I believe it is now necessary for us to make that clear to the Unites States.
President Bush's decision to impose steel tariffs is irrational.
They will destroy American jobs in other sectors and they will damage world trade relations.
Knowing all this, why would President Bush take this irrational decision?
Our market is open.
I firmly support the Commission and the Council of Ministers and I believe that with EU backing and pressure, the World Trade Organization will act correctly and throw out the US position, and that President Bush will welcome this.
Mr President, the events of 11 September ought to have strengthened transatlantic relations by virtue of the emotions they unleashed and the solidarity displayed.
Effective intervention in the maintenance and restoration of peace in specific parts of the world depends on familiarity with the culture and history of the country in crisis.
As I said in Brussels in 1993, the primary mission of NATO is to intervene in European territory and on the fringes of Europe, particularly in the Mediterranean and the Middle East, in order to guarantee and develop peace and stability throughout these areas.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pick up on what was said this morning.
The President-in-Office of the Council has pointed out that our relations are historical ones and that we have many values in common, but that we need to shift from a crisis situation to a process of dialogue.
We need an update, as James Elles said this morning.
The Commission proposal is good, but it does not go far enough, and it does not cover all factors.
The cases are different: clementines affect just one country (the region, by the way, where Commissioner Solbes comes from) and steel affects us all.
Both cases go against the WTO rules without any justification at all and, what is more, they imply self-punishment by the United States.
There are several possibilities: one is to take action within the WTO, but that will take time and, in the long run, we shall all be dead; there is also the possibility of laissez-faire, of doing nothing, because the derived industries that import steel inputs will become less competitive and therefore we will be able to take over from them; but what I believe we must to is act immediately.
Mention has been made in this House of the ban on imports of hormone-treated meat; the banana war; the export aid declared illegal by a WTO panel; the discussions that took place when the competition policy and certain mergers were implemented by Commissioner Monti; and the aid for certain American products.
The Spanish government and my Parliamentary Group brought these events to the Commission's attention on 12 December and the Commission then took immediate action.
In addition, on 14 February the Spanish government requested that, in view of the breakdown of the talks that had been entered into, action should be started within the WTO.
This matter really does need to be taken to the WTO, but they will only reach a solution to this conflict, in the case of clementines, once several harvests have passed, and I therefore call for immediate compensation and reparations.
What we must do is make the United States sit round a negotiating table and work out a solution to the steel and clementines issues, by setting in motion the forceful measures to which my good friend and compatriot Mr Westendorp has referred.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, in the wake of 11 September the United States seemed to want to engage in a policy of broad partnership on an international scale.
This change of course appears to create the risk of serious aberrations, judging by the Pentagon report on the revision of US policy on the use of nuclear weapons, which could include the possibility of a first strike against Russia, China and many other countries.
This creates a difficult and disturbing atmosphere for transatlantic relations, which is compounded by the recent decisions on steel.
At the present time, it is important that Europe should reaffirm its role as a major partner whose friendship and solidarity depend on reciprocity.
This is essential if we want a balanced relationship between Europe and the United States, but it is even more essential for the stability of the world.
Europe must emphasise the impossibility of dealing with the instability, the dangers, the imbalance of today's world by merely wielding a big stick; it must emphasise that we also need to gain the upper hand in the struggle for peace, that we need to devote the same energy today to the fight against inequalities in the field of development and to defusing hotbeds of tension like the Middle East as has been applied to the struggle against terrorism.
In America's hour of need, after the 11 September attacks, Europe responded with unstinting support and solidarity, and rightly so.
Prior to 11 September, it was absent on the issue of Kyoto.
It is not putting it too strongly to say that, in a sense, we feel betrayed by it.
I do not link this to our support for the United States following the events of 11 September.
But for those of us who have been pointing to the United States as an example of a deregulated and liberalised economy, it has been a shattering blow to see the way in which President Bush, faced with the difficulties that his steel industry is encountering, has gone for protectionism.
The United States representatives watching this debate need to know that, while we may have heard from the usual suspects in terms of anti-Americanism, those of us who are friends of the United States feel very badly let down indeed.
Transatlantic relations are now in stormy waters.
The steel crisis is mainly political.
The Commission must now act swiftly within the WTO to overturn these tariffs.
Those measures must be implemented in respect of all non-EU sources of steel in the form of quotas based on 1998 import levels if we are to do a proper job in protecting our own industry.
Instead, we must dump a large cold bucket of logic, common sense and international law onto the head of the US Government and bring it to its senses.
As the Foreign Minister has already stated in his introductory speech as President-in-Office of the Council, our commercial policy is a common one, and the European Commission has full autonomy and authority to make whatever decisions are appropriate.
Accordingly, I believe the Commission has, on behalf of the European Union, taken a firm stand on the steel problem, a stand that was publicly expressed and unanimously adopted by the Council of Ministers last Monday.
The Presidency-in-Office of the Council believes that our most powerful option is to call on the United States to comply with the rules that all the founders of the World Trade Organisation have set for themselves.
It is therefore very important that the European Union should set the example that we are the first to comply with not only the procedures but also the rules of the World Trade Organisation.
In this respect, the Presidency-in-Office can only say that it is up to the Member State affected - in this case Spain - to submit its claim to the Article 133 Committee and the Commission will act in accordance with what the Committee decides.
I therefore believe that the forthcoming EU-US Summit to be held in Washington on 2 May will be a good opportunity for the Presidency of the Council and the Presidency of the Commission to remind the United States' President that the spirit of the Transatlantic Declaration, which, as has been mentioned, was signed in 1995, binds the parties to maintain a spirit of cooperation, to seek common ground and not to seek ground that separates us and, in the fine tradition of the intense relationship between the United States and Europe, it is in the interests of both parties, the United States and Europe, to seek points of agreement and not of disagreement.
I believe this debate has been highly fruitful; we shall incorporate many of the opinions we have heard here into the general corpus on which we shall reflect in order to prepare the forthcoming transatlantic summit, and so I should like to thank you, Mr President, and this Parliament for all the ideas that have been put forward in this debate.
Today's debate has drifted towards the existing conflicts between the United States and the European Union, particularly the steel dispute, although other matters have also been mentioned.
According to some of you, the best formula is to establish a link between the steel dispute and other trading problems with the Union.
We do not think it is a good solution and it is not the one that best serves the Union's long-term interests.
Others amongst you have suggested linking this issue to other matters; the Foreign Sales Act has been mentioned, as has the matter of hormones.
With regard to the clementines case - the President-in-Office of the Council has already referred to this matter - I shall only point out that we are negotiating with the United States in an attempt to find a solution to the problem before the next harvest.
Clearly, in this case too, just as in the last one, we are prepared to use all the legal resources established in the World Trade Organisation.
The Commission has been pleased to see the broad consensus among the European institutions regarding the need to make multilateral institutions work and to tackle the challenges of globalisation by seeking the best of solutions with our American counterparts and seeking to ensure that the unilateral option is not the one chosen.
I endorse Pascal Lamy's comments here this morning that it would be fundamental to seek an agreement, as we have seen here, among all those supporting a new and positive boost to transatlantic relations.
As you know, right now we are studying and working on various options, and any new contribution this House might make would be welcome.
Parliament has long been aware of the problems concerning the legal base for the inclusion of third country nationals on the same footing as European Union citizens under the proposed simplification of modernisation of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71.
As Members know, this regulation seeks to coordinate social security systems between Member States for people moving and working across borders.
Some of the reservations I have heard voiced about the extension of this regulation to third country nationals border, at times, on the xenophobic rather than the rational.
You will be aware that the legal opinion provided by Parliament's Legal Services felt that Articles 42 and 308 of the Amsterdam Treaty, as initially proposed by the Commission, formed the appropriate legal base for this extension as well as for the regulation as a whole.
The European Parliament agreed, as did the majority of the Member States, and that legal base provided for the equal treatment of third country nationals legally resident in the European Union and for the full involvement of Parliament through the codecision procedure.
Additionally, this parity of legal base seemed to many of us to provide a strong signal in terms of the recognition of the contribution from third country nationals to the life of the European Union and certainly met the twin aims of simplification of the process and natural justice.
The Khalil case, insofar as legal experts have explained it to me, involves people covered by Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 already, should they be allowed to legally reside in another Member State and thus cross borders.
The regulation does not grant freedom of movement.
It maintains certain rights for those who move through coordination of social security systems.
Council's statement last December and the Commission's new proposal do not explain the change in the legal base.
Has the European Court of Human Rights case of Gaygusuz v Austria providing for nationality being no barrier to equal treatment to nationals in relation to social security not led to a conclusion of equal treatment in relation to the regulation and thus the parallel legal base?
Hence our desire as well also to clarify the situation of workers in accession countries during any transition period when they will not be enjoying freedom of movement.
Council and Commission will also be aware of this House's concern for the complex situation facing cross-border workers.
The Belgian Presidency had put forward a number of proposals in this area, yet the agreement reached at present is only minimal, as parameter 8 concerning medical treatment shows.
We are all well aware of the desire of Council and Commission to see increased mobility within the workforce and, as a Member of Parliament's Committee on Petitions, I know as well that a number of those who work in other Member States find their situation made more difficult by the lack of effective information, but also by anomalies within the coordination system.
Mr President, on 6 February 2002 the Commission presented to the Council a proposal for a regulation to extend the provisions of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 to nationals of third countries who, solely as a result of their nationality, are not covered by those provisions.
The said proposal is based on paragraph 4 of Article 63 of the EC Treaty.
The Council has agreed on the possibility of using paragraph 4 of Article 63 as a legal basis, as the Commission proposed.
The Council considers that Article 42 of the EC Treaty, interpreted in the light of the judgements of the Court of Justice - in particular the judgement handed down in the Khalil case C-95/99 - does not seem to offer a sufficient legal basis for this extension.
In fact, Mr President, it can be deduced from the Khalil judgement that the Court has not criticised the inclusion of stateless persons and refugees in Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71, based on Article 51 - currently Article 42 - of the EC Treaty, solely insofar as it involves a small category of people, in relation to which the Member States have made international commitments.
In fact, the Court decided as follows: 'The Council cannot be criticised for having, in the exercise of the powers which have been conferred on it under Article 51 of the EEC Treaty, also included stateless persons and refugees resident on the territory of the Member States in order to take into account the abovementioned international obligations of those States.
As the Advocate General pointed out in paragraph 59 of his Opinion, 'coordination excluding stateless persons and refugees would have meant that the Member States, in order to ensure compliance with their international obligations, had to establish a second coordination regime designed solely for that very restricted category of persons'.
If the legal basis adopted for extending coordination to third-country nationals turns out to be paragraph 4 of Article 63, the Council will have to give its opinion in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 67.
In relation to border workers, the Council has reached an agreement in principle in the field of sickness and unemployment benefits according to which the situation of former border worker pensioners will have to be studied.
According to the provisions of the current Regulation, the border worker may receive healthcare in the territory of the competent State, but does not enjoy this right as a pensioner.
Finally, with regard to the unemployed worker, who during their last job resided in the territory of a Member State other than the competent State, the main objective is to incorporate them as best as possible into the labour markets.
Furthermore, it will be appropriate to guarantee the social protection of the unemployed while bearing in mind the financial aspects of the issue and guaranteeing effective control.
As regards the relationship between taxation and social security, this is an issue which essentially falls within the competence of the Member States and not the Union.
It should be stressed that, in a general sense, the guidelines for employment for 2002 draw attention to the need to adapt the tax and benefit structures in such a way that they do not have a negative effect on participation in active life, particularly in relation to women.
Nationals of candidate countries who become Community nationals purely as a result of accession will be included, by virtue of that accession, within the scope of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71.
With regard to the first point, the Commission believes that parameter 6 is acceptable, since this possibility is laid down in the current Regulation.
The Commission believes it positive that in the Regulation, unlike the current one, criteria are established to maintain these agreements, especially in cases which are more favourable to the person affected.
Secondly, with regard to unemployment benefits, the Commission regrets the lack of progress in relation to parameter 10, which does not provide any essential modification of the current provisions, above all because it does not offer any specific solution in the relation to the situation of border workers.
With regard to family benefits, parameter 11 does not correspond exactly to the Commission's proposal, but, in any event, the Commission considers it positive that that parameter intends to guarantee the beneficiary the maximum amount of benefits.
It is true that Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 refers to the coordination of social security systems in the Member States.
There are no explicit rules for the coordination of these tax systems and this issue is largely resolved by the bilateral agreements on double taxation which have been reached by almost all the Member States.
The agreements follow the model of the OECD, which means that, in most cases, the income from salaried work (and also freelance work) is only subject to the taxes of either the country in which the work is carried out or the country of residence.
Therefore, if they are subject to the taxes of the Member State in which they work, that country has competence both in terms of taxation and in terms of social security.
The Court of Justice confirmed that, in the absence of harmonisation at Community level, the Member States have the competence to establish the criteria for allocation of fiscal competence in order to eliminate double taxation, but, in doing so, it is logical that they should respect the principles of Community legislation and, amongst others, that of the prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of nationality.
My final comments relate to enlargement.
Firstly, the negotiations with the candidate countries, as the Presidency has said, on Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71, in its part relating to Chapter 2, have provisionally been concluded - or have been concluded - with all the countries apart from Estonia, and this Chapter 2 also includes the coordination of social security systems.
It has been entrusted to the administrative Committee for the social security of migrant workers, which will shortly present to the Council's working groups the results of its debates on entries, which the candidate countries have asked to be included in those annexes.
Finally, Regulation (EEC) No 1481/71 will be applied to nationals of candidate countries as soon as they accede to the European Union, since there is no provision for a transitional period in the field of the coordination of social security systems.
Studying these Council parameters - and, Mr Miguelez, I hold you in very high esteem - I note that what you have written in the Council parameters is diametrically opposed to what has been presented to us in recent jurisdiction by the European Court of Justice.
Clarification, because we Members of Parliament soon realised that the contributions made by Commissioner Solbes and the representative of the Council did not make it clear why the legal basis has been changed in Article 63(4).
Europe's institutions want more clarity and transparency without waiting for the Convention.
However, these new proposals are creating more confusion than before, because, if we have to deal with two different legal bases, that is certainly very confusing.
I would like to remind you once again that Regulation 1408 does not involve harmonising social systems, but is about coordinating the framework conditions, as it were, in order to encourage and support our citizens in making use of their scope for mobility in Europe.
I naturally agree with the critical comments made by Mrs Lambert and Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, and also with the criticism that you expressed on behalf of the Commission, Mr Solbes.
Mr President, I agree with the Commission's and the Council's interpretation of the Treaties.
Moreover, I have also in the past put forward the view that the actual legal basis was not perhaps the most important thing right now, for what is at issue is guaranteeing the rights of these people.
Mr President, I can only say that I have taken good note of the observations of the honourable Members in this debate and that, naturally, the Presidency will consider this issue.
Mr President, I will try to answer some of the questions raised very quickly.
The tax system is the responsibility of the Member States and it is decided in accordance with the place of residence.
The social security system is regulated at Community level by means of Regulation (EEC) No. 1408/71 and is defined in accordance with the place of work.
The second point raised relates to what our objective is in relation to social security.
Our objective is, clearly, to apply the same social security system and the same rights to all citizens of the Union, but also for all legal residents.
Finally, with regard to the nature of the new text, it is intended to be more modern than the previous one, with a simpler and more accessible definition for users of the current legal system.
The new text is intended to include both the conclusions arising from the judgements of the Court of Justice and the various amendments which have been introduced since 1971.
It is true that there is a debate on the legal basis, but we believe, of course, that the one used is the correct legal basis in accordance with the current system, and it has clearly never been the Commission's intention to affect Parliament's rights in any way.
The debate is closed.
Above all, the extent of the recovery already seems to vary greatly across the various sectors involved, and it is intertwined with restructuring and modernisation processes, which may be supported by heavy public investment and unacceptable protectionist measures, as is the case with steel in the United States.
For this reason, the report I am tabling highlights the urgent need to adopt a proactive policy - at the Barcelona summit, let us hope - which is, above all, in line with the Lisbon objectives, a policy mix that makes the social agenda adopted at Nice an integral part of a coordinated economic and social policy centred on the objective of increasing the active population and achieving full employment.
This seems even more essential if one bears in mind the need to abide by the constraints of the Stability and Growth Pact, particularly that of keeping budget deficits down to within 3 per cent of gross domestic product, which only leaves rather modest resources available for a counter-cyclical economic policy in the individual States.
We therefore stress that it is not a question of concentrating new powers in Brussels but rather of making very selective choices and coordinating state intervention in order to achieve a critical mass, creating positive synergies of public intervention and private investment at a European level.
In addition, Community projects need to be better coordinated with governments' economic and social policy guidelines, and not only coordinated better but in good time - by the summer, in this case - so that they can affect the decisions of the national parliaments, which must be informed of the initiatives of the competent European Parliament committees in due time and be involved in them.
Social dialogue must also be involved in this policy mix, based on the need to set out the guidelines and financing methods for the continuing education policy.
The participation of the social partners in defining a modern welfare state, turning it into a decisive factor in sustainable development leading to full employment, is one of the cornerstones of the European social model.
At Barcelona we must therefore reject any attempt to weaken collective bargaining and to remove from the Charter of Fundamental Rights a major part of its content.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by sincerely thanking the rapporteur for his excellent cooperation.
But I would also like to say a few additional words about the report.
A lot of things are now attributed to 11 September and to the economic downturn in the USA.
It is certain that the tragic events of 11 September had an additional negative impact, but negative economic trends had already set in before then in Europe.
In particular, from a German point of view we should not lose sight of the fact that Germany is the largest economy in the European Union and that countries that have far closer economic ties with the USA, such as the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, have far fewer problems than we do.
The discussions that have taken place in recent months about this have not only been damaging to the stability and growth market, but have also adversely affected Europe's reputation, its economy and the euro.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this own-initiative report has, first of all, the extraordinary merit of placing the European Parliament at the centre of the discussion of the broad economic policy guidelines for Europe in the years to come.
First of all, at political level, accentuating the need for the European Parliament and the national parliaments to play an active and regulatory role in laying down the broad economic policy options.
The rapporteur nevertheless acknowledges and recommends an appropriate degree of flexibility, which is necessary if we are to use public policies as instruments of economic recovery, without making the zero deficit in 2004 an obsession that is disproportionate to today's reality.
Similarly, at structural level, he suggests and endorses the use of instruments to improve the general economic climate, in particular in training, in access to public services, in the creation of a knowledge-based society or in the adaptation of the labour markets.
Finally, he takes up the objective of the Lisbon Extraordinary Summit and pursues this objective at the Barcelona Extraordinary Summit.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Liberal Group, I would firstly like to express our support for Mr Trentin's report.
We have been able to work together and the result will reflect the efforts we have made throughout its drawing up in committee.
This report could not have come at a more appropriate time: the day after tomorrow the Barcelona European Council will take place and it will deal with issues relating to the assessment to be made and the commitments to be assumed in relation to the Lisbon process, as well as, clearly, a series of issues which the Liberal Group has always insisted on and which the Commissioner is sufficiently aware of and which I am not going to repeat: the need to liberalise the most protected sectors; the opening up of the markets; the emphasis on training and education: the provision of more resources for scientific research and technological development; that is, the fulfilment of the Lisbon objectives.
Mr President, may I express my thanks to Bruno Trentin for the quality of his work and for being a good listener.
Accordingly, our Parliament should seize the present opportunity to take a historic initiative by formulating proposals for submission to the Convention on the Future of Europe.
Mr President, Mr Trentin's work deals very clearly with important matters for the future of the Union, and it does so by appropriately combining economic and social approaches, in a context of involvement and participation, in order to maintain a social security framework, and of innovation as well.
Each of these aspects taken alone supports the points raised in the report before us, but they also support the need for it to have a wholly European focus, which includes maintaining the Stability and Growth Pact, because another perplexing aspect in the USA is, paradoxically, the increase in floating capital, perhaps as an intentional inflationary nudge to level off the huge public investments that have been made.
The reference to greater participation by local players is explicit, as the second report on cohesion has shown, but from the standpoint of enlargement there is also a clear reference to wider enjoyment, or at least greater access to information regarding Community support, since the fact is that the EAGGF, for instance, has reported significantly low take-up rates in the Member States.
It is, in fact, extremely difficult to justify scientifically, as the Union demands, the inclusion of environmental sites on the Natura 2000 list before the Trans-European Networks are built.
In the latter respect, more and better participation by the countries of Central and Eastern Europe in Community plans and programmes would be welcome, as would their greater participation in transport policy, including attention to Community corridors.
And maybe the most important question: do we really want Europe to have a say in this?
In my view, these matters do not belong in a report on the situation of the European economy.
In this context, the Trentin report, which seeks to assist in preparing the broad economic policy guidelines for 2003, might have been expected to signal very vigorous reforms that could kick-start the European economy.
All we see in it are reform proposals that are already very familiar, such as lifelong learning, support for research, completion of the market in financial services and the opening of the energy and transport markets, measures which will bear little fruit in the immediate future.
For our part, we should like to take this opportunity to call first and foremost for a sharp reduction in taxes and other public charges, because these are the number-one problem in the countries where growth is slow.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to express my thanks for the positive atmosphere in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, because not only this report but also those that follow - especially the legislative reports in the area of financial services - require a high degree of willingness to cooperate and need to be seen in the context of attempts to strengthen economic and monetary union as the motor of the European Union.
I therefore view the Trentin report in conjunction with the report already adopted on the economic consequences of 11 September.
However, we will only achieve these objectives if we do our homework.
That applies not only to the European Parliament but also to the Council and the governments of the Member States.
For me, that means we need a properly functioning internal market, in other words we must do everything to implement in good time the directives that have already been adopted, to eliminate obstacles to the internal market, and to achieve greater coordination in the internal market despite the variations in competence, in order to remove distortion of competition.
When we talk about wanting to become the most dynamic economic region in the world, that means that we have to increase our economic power.
I therefore simply believe that the contrast that is constantly made between economic policy and social policy is simply wrong.
Mr Radwan, you said that the best economic policy is simultaneously also the best social policy.
We are talking now about the Trentin report, which we unanimously adopted in committee, and which relates to the broad economic policy guidelines and to a decision-making process which in the first place concerns the Commission.
Parliament wishes to influence this process of coordination and opinion forming at a relatively early stage, without presenting a wish list the size of a mail-order catalogue.
However, this is not just a question of keeping ourselves busy: Article 4 of the EC Treaty specifically provides for this common economic policy, this coordinated economic and finance policy.
That is our principle, and that is why - not because it is what my group wants, but because it is part of the Commission's programme - the completion of the internal market and the further liberalisation of public-sector services are a priority, as is the fact that we need to equip ourselves for competition at world level, and the fact that we need to dismantle obstacles in the Member States and to tackle the process of reform.
Even though it contains a clear endorsement of the stability policy, the report, as I interpret it, is characterised mainly by attempts to find new avenues, create openings, relax the rules and bring about greater freedom of manoeuvre.
What I see is something resembling a straightjacket, characterised by stability, rules and discipline.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Trentin report surely lays the initial bases for major future decisions on economic policy.
European leaders must apply themselves to rewriting the model for the social and market economy, bringing it up to date and rethinking it with greater emphasis on the social commitment.
The new bargaining framework may be a regional or territorial system, half way between centralisation and company-level bargaining, with the aim of strengthening pay flexibility at company level where productivity is created and the individual contribution is valued.
Mr President, I am going to try to quickly mention most of the issues raised and I would firstly like to thank Mr Trentin for his report.
The monetary authorities have taken advantage of the lower risk in the field of price stability in order to cut interest rates, and budgetary policies have supported the activity by means of the functioning of automatic stabilisers and tax reductions which have taken place during this period.
We are currently working on the round of forecasts for 2002 and I can point out that, according to those forecasts, growth has been gaining momentum throughout this year and we believe it will come close to potential growth and may even exceed it by the end of the year.
However, there are two elements of particular interest to us: firstly, the trend in salaries, which has been extremely helpful during this period - both in terms of stabilising prices and creating employment - and we hope the same trend will continue.
The difficulties we have had to face during recent months have basically stemmed from not having achieved a situation of budgetary balance or budgetary surplus during the previous improvement in our economic context.
And in this respect it should not be inferred from my comments - which some speakers have referred to - that I had any intention whatsoever of entering into an internal political debate, but that I simply wanted to point out something that I have said many times and that is that, in my opinion, any reduction in taxes to confront our budgetary obligations must be based on budgetary surpluses or must be counterbalanced by spending reductions.
It is true that Lisbon is a programme for ten years.
I believe we also have to consider that work must be worthwhile; we must have a system which provides incentives for participation in work and, to this end, it is essential to modernise the tax systems and also the social construction systems, as well as the legislation on work protection in order to favour employment.
Safety in employment must be based on training and qualification, and this is a fundamental active element for everybody.
Safety in work based solely and exclusively on rigid protection legislation may be an advantage in the short term, but there is no doubt whatsoever that it hinders modernisation and greater economic efficiency.
As the Resolution stresses, employment is not just a problem of wage costs, but it is also a problem of wage structures which are well suited to the productivity differentials in each sector of activity.
In our report we also refer to goods and services, and your Resolution also stresses the importance of integrated networks of transport and services infrastructures, as well as the need for rigorous competition policy and proposes that consumers be offered the possibility of choosing between different networks of services.
The Commission absolutely agrees with these contributions and we also point to the need to make progress in investment in priority infrastructure projects, an issue which we consider to be fundamental in order to stimulate our capacity for long-term growth.
In our recent report on the application of the broad economic policy guidelines for 2001, we point out that in some network industries, the older operators still maintain high market quotas, an indicator that the opening up of the market is still not as desired.
It is true that R+D is an essential factor for a sustainable increase in productivity and competitiveness, which are essential elements if we want to achieve the Lisbon objective of making our economy the most competitive economy in the world.
And it is true that progress has been made with R+D, but it is also true that progress in the financial contribution is taking place essentially in the public sector, although the greatest differences in terms of investment in this type of activity arise in the private sector.
Mr Trentin has mentioned other elements connected to the participation of national parliaments.
Nothing would please the Commission more than greater participation by national parliaments in this type of debate and you as a Parliament, and in particular the IMAC, have played an important role in the past in support of certain initiatives of this type, which have undoubtedly been enormously useful.
I will end by saying that the Commission considers at this time that the broad economic policy guidelines, the basic document on guidelines, must continue to function in accordance with what was agreed in Lisbon, and in this regard it is absolutely essential to accept any contribution that the European Parliament may present in order to improve these guidelines.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, nine months have now elapsed since the proposal for a European Commission directive on this ultra-technical but extremely topical subject was referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
I will not conceal the fact that, at the start of our debates, some of my honourable colleagues were loath to impose new prudential constraints on the financial sector.
There were discussions, and some questioned whether it was expedient for Europe to set out its own rules before the completion of the Basle negotiations on the same subject in 2004.
No, it must not be watered down, either in its scope or in the rigour and transparency of the prudential rules that the authorities will have to oversee.
I refer in particular to two groups of amendments, namely those that relate to the choice of calculation method and those designed to instil a degree of flexibility into capital-adequacy requirements in terms of companies' own funds in the case of groups which are not yet conglomerates.
In these circumstances, I believe that one reading, or one reading and a half, if you like, will suffice for us to ratify this directive, and I shall be absolutely delighted at such an outcome.
Nevertheless, since the financial markets remain vulnerable, there is a need to create, parallel to the establishment of this large market, regulatory authorities vested with wide powers, not to intervene on a routine basis but to take action when the rules of common sense have been breached by players in the field.
These principles are applied in the draft directive on market abuse.
The Commission proposal has been a welcome development in the light of the attacks of 11 September.
Allow me now, Mr President, to comment briefly on the main objectives of this directive.
The risk of fraudulent use of confidential information increases if information is not properly disseminated.
In accordance with this pragmatic approach, we have amended some of the provisions proposed by the Commission.
We also turned our attention to the conditions for the implementation of the directive.
The current procedures are glaringly inefficient.
Only thirteen criminal penalties were imposed for market manipulation in the 17 countries of the European Economic Area between 1995 and 2000.
The subsidiarity principle prevents us from harmonising criminal and administrative penalties throughout Europe.
In the United States, a debate has been taking place in the wake of the Enron affair on the need to increase the resources allocated to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
But are we aware that the SEC budget is already almost fifty times higher than that of the German regulator?
In conclusion, may I remind the House that modernising financial markets implies not only greater efficiency but also a more level playing field.
The modernisation of financial systems requires the involvement of all players.
An active Parliament must engage in dialogue with all interested parties and listen to all the lobbies.
But the latter do not always seek to serve the general interest.
I have the feeling, Mr President, that the proposed text serves the general interest, whilst respecting the legitimate interests of the financial world.
We all very much hope that this new way of dealing with financial regulations will prove to be a step change in creating a single market, the foundations of which have been put in place by the creation of the euro and its successful introduction.
It means separate markets in new issues, higher regulatory costs, higher costs of capital for business and less choice for investors.
I have no doubt, therefore, that a single regime for prospectuses can create benefits for all, greater choice and higher returns for investors, lower costs of capital and funding opportunities for companies.
We tried to make a break in this proposal with in-depth hearings to understand the issues and I hope that we have a substantial measures of consensus within Parliament on many of the key problems and how to solve them.
We shall deal with the consultation in that area in due course.
This leads me to a further compromise amendment, which would allow a national authority, if it wanted, to exempt companies with a market capitalisation of less than EUR 350 million from the EU requirement, so long as they are not marketing outside that Member State.
For example, the British Technology Group employs just 182 people and has a turnover of EUR 22 million and a balance sheet of EUR 32 million.
Small companies can have vast values, and it only takes one or two Nobel scientists on board to ensure that that happens.
Mr President, I represent the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market as rapporteur for the Directive on market abuse.
If that approach were to be adopted, it would fly in the face of all the fundamental rights provisions that have become part of the traditional order in our Member States, and it would also be counter to the Charter of Fundamental Rights adopted in Nice.
It is our opinion that market abuse is an offence very similar to other offences against property, such as fraud.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank the rapporteur and in particular the Commission.
It is our job as the European Parliament to make sure that the public is protected, but also that our companies remain competitive in this global competitive struggle.
I believe that we have considered these measures here in Parliament as part of a calm dialogue, and that we have been able to eliminate many problems, and I believe that could set a good precedent for how we deal with these topics.
Mr President, I would like to sincerely congratulate the three rapporteurs, and I believe that this cooperation between the Commission and the Council should set the pattern for future discussions.
I believe it is very important for the Commission and the Council to work towards strengthening the way the European Parliament functions in this area, as provided for in the Lamfalussy report, so that we can also exercise our democratic rights in the monitoring committee while preserving complete neutrality.
The three directives that we are discussing today and voting on tomorrow aim to overcome the fragmentation of Europe's financial markets, to enhance their attractiveness and competitiveness, and at the same time also to strengthen financial stability and consumer protection.
The elimination of obstacles to market access and bureaucratic regulations, the removal of antiquated and rigid supervisory structures and their replacement by flexible and market-oriented supervisory rules and instruments are indispensable requirements for the creation of an integrated financial market and for ensuring the competitiveness of Europe's financial service providers.
If they are to remain competitive in the face of the globalisation and internationalisation of the finance markets, Europe's financial companies need to reposition themselves in the market, and the growing number of takeovers and mergers in this context demonstrates that this process is in full swing.
Last but not least, I should also like to thank Commissioner Bolkestein for his work on bringing about a genuine internal market for financial services.
The background to the practical proposal is that we wish to secure stable financial markets in Europe.
We have found those solutions here in Parliament, and so it is merely up to the Council to deliver the rest.
I regret to inform the Members and Commissioner Bolkestein that this debate is suspended and will resume at 9.00 p.m.
The next item is Question Time (B5-0008/2002).
Mr President, the situation in Chechnya is still very worrying for the European Union.
Recent reports by the OSCE Assistance Group in Chechnya, by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and by two NGOs (Memorial and Médecins sans Frontières) demonstrate that the situation in this part of Russia is still dramatic.
This is no surprise, since the European Union has repeatedly spoken out clearly against any violation of human rights and on the situation of the refugees and internally displaced people in Chechnya.
Consequently, the Union has adopted a coherent position in principle which makes it very clear to Russia that, while the upheaval in Chechnya continues, the Union will continue to apply firm pressure for a change to come about, taking every possible opportunity and also turning to the relevant international organisations.
The question refers to Resolution 1270 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe which says that, while it has been frustratingly slow, some progress has been made thanks to positive changes of attitude now visible within the Russian Federation in relation to dealing with the conflict.
At the same time, it is clearly necessary to maintain stability in the region.
The Council absolutely agrees that only a political solution can resolve the Chechen conflict.
It understands that the Russian authorities have tried to reach an agreement with representatives of Maskhadov, but that unfortunately these efforts have not been successful.
The European Union will not miss any opportunity to insist on a political solution and, for its part, the OSCE is still playing a useful role through the presence of its Assistance Group.
The security and independence of journalists are issues of great concern to the European Union, which has recently reiterated its views on the situation of the media in Russia.
The Union has periodically dealt with the problem of security with the Russian authorities and recently a Commission official travelled to Chechnya to assess the current situation on the ground and the Union's troika is planning another visit to the region on a Head of Mission level.
Finally, in relation to the prosecution of those people who have violated human rights, the European Union would point out that the Court of Human Rights in the Hague is now involved in several cases.
I have taken note of the Council's statement that it will continue to discuss the situation in Chechnya during all meetings with Russian authorities.
Mr President, the Council and the Commission are working actively together in preparation for the summit between the European Union and Russia, which will take place in Moscow on 28 May, and within the framework of this bilateral dialogue we intend to raise all the issues relating to the situation in Chechnya.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is now two years and six months since the second war in Chechnya began.
Commissioner Poul Nielson has not yet been to Chechnya.
Major reports have appeared in our newspapers which indicate that Russian military death squads are operating in Chechnya and that one village turned to the United Nations for help as it had been visited a total of 33 times for "cleansing operations".
As long as there has been a Council of Europe presence in Chechnya, there has not so far been an EU presence.
The Union has no right to interfere in the internal affairs of a sovereign country such as the Russian Federation.
Mr Dupuis, on a point of order.
Mr Dupuis, the President-in-Office of the Council has the right to respond to you in that way.
I think that Mr De Miguel can say that he is going to refer to the Council on the matter and will give a more detailed answer later, as he is not in a position to do so at present.
But I do think that, as a general rule, the Council should answer all questions.
I believe that by definition and out of the respect the Council has for the Members of this House, any question asked here, in Parliament and during Question Time, is a question to the Council, and not to the Presidency and that, therefore, the Presidency communicates it to the Council, on principle.
Question No 3 by Mihail Papayannakis (H-0108/02): Subject: Position of the Spanish Presidency on demonstrations A memorandum of 29.1.2002 from the Spanish Presidency to the Council's Working Party on Terrorism proposes drawing up, on the basis of a Council Decision, a standard form for the exchange of information concerning acts of terrorism committed during EU summits or other events convened by international or Community organisations.
Mr President, the Council would like to draw your attention to the reply to Oral Question No 0967/01, which refers to Article 33 of the European Union Treaty which states: 'This Title (Title VI, Provisions on police and judicial cooperation on criminal matters) shall not affect the exercise of the responsibilities incumbent upon Member States with regard to the maintenance of law and order and the safeguarding of internal security?.
In relation to data protection, the 1981 Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data has been ratified by all the Member States of the Union.
In relation to Mr Papayannakis, I will say that the preparatory bodies who are examining his question met in January and in February and worked as laid down in the Treaty, that is, respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms.
It seems to me that the President-in-Office of the Council endeavoured to give a very general reply with references to a few interesting principles, such as data protection agreements.
I should like to ask if the Spanish Presidency is making practical arrangements and, rather than following the Berlusconi line, which caused a great many problems and violated the fundamental rights of the citizens of the European Union by refusing to allow peace-loving Greek and other nationals to land in Italy, is making arrangements to follow the Porto Alegre approach in an effort to create a framework within which the protestors can express their views and their claims legally and peacefully.
In any event, I can guarantee that we have no intention of denying one of the fundamental freedoms laid down in the Treaty (the freedom of movement of citizens), but I must warn you that the Spanish Government is prepared to take all the necessary measures to prevent people who intend to turn peaceful demonstrations into a field of battle, violence, destruction of property and aggression against people and objects, from achieving their aims in Barcelona.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that disruptions at meetings of this kind are above all the result of a failure to educate the public.
Hence the European Parliament's initiative to endow the WTO with a parliamentary assembly, so that in future discussions can be held with non-governmental organisations and interest groups, thus strengthening communication with the public at parliamentary level.
I would now like to put this question to you, Mr President-in-Office: what initiatives does the Spanish Presidency intend to take in order to implement this plan as quickly as possible?
The Council of the Union has expressed its willingness to hold dialogue on several occasions.
The Spanish Government is currently holding talks with all the groups that want to peacefully express their ideas in Barcelona and anybody who demonstrates peacefully will have the right to be heard and to demonstrate, since that is an inalienable right of any European citizen.
In any event, the honourable Member's initiative is always good.
If there were a parliamentary assembly, if a new possibility for dialogue were offered, that may help to create more fora, but I do not think that multiplying fora can resolve the most serious problem of this type of public demonstration being organised and used by violent groups and factions who have no intention of dialogue, since all they want is to take the opportunity to spread confusion and violence.
Furthermore, it stresses that the issue raised is not within its competence, but that of the Intergovernmental Review Conference, which is currently preparing the Convention created by the Laeken European Council on 14 and 15 December 2001.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the President of the Government of the Spanish State refuses, in a way which is arbitrary and quite contrary to the winds of history, to allow the Union's constituent nationalities and regions to play a role in the Union, not least in the Council of Ministers, and is trying to ignore the practices already in place in Germany, Belgium, the United Kingdom and Austria.
Secondly, I would like you to tell me whether or not it is true that the Treaty on European Union indicates that Ministers of the regional governments can participate in European Councils of Ministers.
With regard to the second question, I can say that the Treaty gives Member States the power to decide who their representatives in the Council are to be.
Firstly, in relation to the Action Plan, the Council would remind the honourable Member that in the Resolution which it adopted on 14 May 2001 on the programme for action and the speeding up of the fight against HIV (AIDS), malaria and tuberculosis in the context of a reduction in poverty (document 8495/01), the Council explained the actions it considers essential in the fight against these three diseases.
The actions include, firstly, access to pharmaceutical products and, in particular, the flexible application of the ADPIC (Trips) agreement in relation to intellectual property, which allows us to confront public health problems, amongst other things, through the discretionary power to grant obligatory licences in certain exceptional circumstances, including those involving the protection of public health.
Secondly, it is a question of strengthening and increasing the financial contributions in the field of research and development.
It is particularly important both to increase the capacity of the developing countries and to offer incentives for the development of specific universal public services, such as new treatments and vaccines.
The objective consists of strengthening the cooperation agreements amongst the Member States with the WHO, the UNO (AIDS), the World Bank and other international actors in both the private and the public sectors, for example, the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (GAVI).
The Council wishes to stress that that Resolution was presented at the 26th Special Sitting of the General Assembly of the United Nations which took place in New York on 25 to 27 June 2001, during which the European Union actively participated in the drawing up of the final declaration.
Secondly, with regard to the World Fund for Fighting AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, the Council would remind the honourable Member of the European Parliament and Council Decision adopted on 6 December 2001, on the European Community contribution to the World Fund for Fighting HIV (AIDS), Tuberculosis and Malaria.
In accordance with that decision, the Commission will contribute EUR 600 million to that world fund for 2001, which will be paid within the framework of a funding agreement to be reached between the Commission and the World Bank.
That Decision also stipulates that in 2002 the Commission must present the European Parliament and the Council with a first report on the management and working methods of the World Fund.
With regard to the activities so far carried out by the Fund, the Council wishes to tell the honourable Member that on 29 January 2002 the management board meeting in Geneva approved its first presentation of proposals for funding of associations in countries seriously affected by epidemics.
The initial series of subsidies, which will be awarded in April, will be the first granted by the Fund.
The second meeting of the Fund's board must take place in New York at the end of April.
The Council would urge the honourable Member to approach the Commission directly, since it is represented on the management board of the World Fund, in order to obtain more precise information on the Fund's activities.
In fact, the concern of this Parliament, and in particular the Committee on Development and Cooperation, is - given the current situation in Africa, essentially in its central regions (Uganda, Burundi, Rwanda, etc.), in terms of AIDS - how the Council, and of course the Commission, is going to control the fund of EUR 120 million which we approved in this House.
Since you have told me that EUR 60 million has already been provided and that the first report is going to be carried out now, in April, from then on we will be very attentive to that control.
Question No 7 by Josu Ortuondo Larrea (H-0076/02): Subject: Languages used by the Spanish Presidency At the start of the current year, Spain took over the revolving presidency of the European Union.
Mr President, the Presidency of the Council wishes to remind the honourable Member that, according to the provisions of Article 290 of the EC Treaty, the linguistic system of the Community's institutions will be set by the Council, which will decide unanimously.
The Council's position on this particular issue is laid down in its Regulation (EC) No 1 of 1958, successively amended for the purposes of the accessions of new Member States, which lays down that there are currently eleven official working languages in the European Union.
The Government of the Spanish State did not allow any of these languages to be promoted or cared for.
I believe that your parliamentary group would do better to raise this question in the Spanish Parliament.
Therefore, since I am appearing here in the European Parliament as a representative of the Council of the Union, and not of the Spanish Government, I cannot answer your question.
You are aware that some Members, including the President, would very much like to speak in these debates; but in the case of the President of the sitting, it is impossible, although there has been mention of bable, the Asturian dialect, which is a form of expression in the region I was born.
Mr President, the European Union has systematically given priority to the issue of human rights and the protection of minorities within its relations with the candidate countries.
This issue is a key element of the pre-accession strategy for each of these countries, in accordance with the political requirements for accession established by the Copenhagen European Council in 1993.
In the case of Romania, one of the specific areas included in the pre-accession strategy is childcare.
In the Commission's periodic report for 2000 on Romania's progress towards accession, the Commission expressed its concern in relation to the adoption legislation and practices in the various countries, which allow different considerations of the greater interest of the child influence decisions on adoption.
In the revised Association for the accession of Romania, adopted by the Council on 28 January 2002, amongst the intermediate priorities and objectives, it is stipulated that Romania must maintain the moratorium on international adoption until new legislation is adopted which is compatible with interests of the children and with Romania's international obligations, and the necessary administrative capacity to apply the new legislation is guaranteed.
As well as maintaining the general moratorium, the Romanian Government adopted measures in December 2001 to allow for the completion of adoption procedures in those cases which were already before the courts at the time of the suspension of international adoptions.
The Presidency of the Council believes that the adoptions of those children whose adoption procedures have already begun in the Member States, with all legal guarantees, should be completed within a reasonable time period.
Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union will closely monitor the situation in Romania in this regard, especially within the bodies created within the framework of European agreement, such as the Association Council and the Association Committee.
Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, not only for the accuracy of his answer, but also for what he has been doing, both during the Belgian Presidency and during the Spanish Presidency, with a view to resolving 'within a reasonable time period' - to use his own words - these two problems: that of resolving the Romanian adoption system, in order to make it compatible with international agreements and, secondly, that of resolving the problems of those families who, since the procedures were begun under the former Romanian legislation, have seen no progress.
It is a question of moving forward with what has already been started, of satisfying the expectations created within many families which had already started the process and then, naturally, begin a new system under the new legislation.
He may put in all only one supplementary question to the Council and two supplementary questions to the Commission?.
Alright, then I will do so as a point of order, because, if I have not misunderstood you, you have just said that all Members can ask one supplementary question for each question.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
During Questions to the Commission, Members can ask two supplementary questions, in addition to those which correspond to them, and during Questions to the Council they can ask one supplementary question.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in a democratic system such as the European Union, no religious or non-religious body is above the standards and fundamental values that guarantee the peaceful coexistence of citizens on a daily basis.
Mr President, all European institutions are naturally obliged to abide by the fundamental principles of respect for the person and to be against discrimination for whatever reason.
The Council does not intend to take any action in this regard.
Question No 11 by María Izquierdo Rojo (H-0084/02): Subject: Spanish Presidency and relations with Morocco What action will the Spanish Presidency take with regard to relations with Morocco?
It will also provide the opportunity to analyse the ways and means of strengthening relations between the European Union and Morocco with a view to preparing for the third meeting of the European Union-Morocco Association Council, which, in principle, will take place under the Danish Presidency during the second half of this year, given that the last meeting took place in October 2001.
On the other hand, the objective of the agricultural negotiations the Commission is holding with Morocco, which started in January, is to widely liberalise agricultural trade between the European Union and Morocco.
In accordance with the Association Agreement, negotiations will resume in parallel with the Association Committee on 14 March and, in principle, will be concluded by the end of 2002 at the latest.
Finally, the Presidency is pursuing dialogue and cooperation with Morocco on migration policy, including illegal immigration, with the aim, amongst others, of jointly implementing the action plan for Morocco adopted by the Council in October 1999.
This plan paves the way for socio-economic development, the integration of Moroccan nationals legally residing in Member States, the management of migratory flows and respect for the right of asylum.
A meeting of the working group on social affairs and migration was held yesterday in Rabat, and there will be consultations with regard to negotiations for a readmission agreement between the European Union and Morocco during this current six-month period.
With regard more specifically to fisheries, the Council recognises the ever-important relationship between the EU and the Kingdom of Morocco in this area.
Today, the Association Committee is meeting to deal with all the political issues relating to cooperation with Morocco, not only in the economic but also in the political fields, as well as all the projects existing within the association framework and the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, which is the fundamental instrument in the relationship between the European Union and Morocco.
And, tomorrow, the Committee which is looking at all the agricultural exports from Morocco to the European Union will be meeting in Brussels, which is Morocco's top priority: to be able to export its agricultural produce to the European Union.
Question No 12 by Jonas Sjöstedt (H-0085/02): Subject: EU export subsidies for agricultural produce The EU spends nearly five billion euro each year on subsidies of exports of its own agricultural produce.
These subsidies seriously damage the prospects of other countries, particularly developing ones, of maintaining a viable position on the market in agricultural produce.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to commercial dealings with developing countries, the Council would like to point out that the European Union is the second largest exporter and the main importer of agricultural products in the world and, in particular, that it is more or less the main importer of agricultural products from developing countries.
The European Union imports more agricultural products from developing countries than the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia and New Zealand put together.
Between 1997 and 1999, the European Union imported more than EUR 35 000 million worth of agricultural products every year from developing countries, with no import duty in the majority of cases, or at a very low level in exceptional cases.
In fact, the European Union has a very active policy of supporting these countries, particularly through two main programmes aimed at encouraging exports from developing countries to the European Union.
Furthermore, the Council would like to remind you that, within the framework of the World Trade Organisation - comprising 144 member countries, the majority of which are developing countries - an agreement on agriculture was made by virtue of the 1994 Marrakech Agreements with the aim, amongst other things, of reducing the subsidies that cause distortions to competition in world markets.
Recently, in November 2001, the development cycle initiated by the Doha Declaration set the objective of reducing these trade distortions further, helping, at the same time, developing countries to take fair advantage of world exchanges.
Within the framework of these new multilateral trade negotiations, the European Union has committed itself to contributing to the conclusion, before 1 January 2005, of a balanced multilateral agreement that will be advantageous to all parties.
The Community position consists of setting up additional reductions to export subsidies, such as export credits, state trading enterprises or other kinds of export monopolies that use one market to subsidise another; or even specific practices regarding food, whose true objective is to eliminate surpluses and open markets or suppress competition in the markets.
There is no risk therefore of there being any difficulty between the Council and the Commission in terms of achieving the objective of giving more advantages to developing countries so that they can export to Union markets.
I would thank the President-in-Office of the Council for that detailed answer.
With regard to the elimination of export subsidies, I cannot give you an answer on behalf of the Presidency-in-Office, because this will be the response of the Council as a whole.
I can tell you that Spain is opposed to import subsidies, but the Presidency-in-Office of the Council will, naturally, have to reflect upon the position of the Council as a whole, and I cannot say any more at this time, because we have still received no proposal from the Commission and the Member States have still not given their opinion on this issue.
It is very difficult for the President-in-Office of the Council to provide any further details on the debate that is going to take place on no more and no less than the reform of the common agricultural policy - which is certainly going to be one of the hottest debates in the European Union over the next few months - because at the heart of this reform is the very issue of agricultural subsidies.
The Commission will therefore put forward its proposal at this time, the debate will begin in the Council and I do not have the slightest doubt that the European Parliament will very quickly take up all the issues raised and will be closely involved with this great movement for the reform of the common agricultural policy.
On 12 February 2002, the Ecofin Council studied the updated stability programmes put forward by Germany and Portugal.
With regard to the concerns expressed in the Commission's recommendations on the worsening of this deficit, both the German and the Portuguese Governments committed themselves to ensuring that the reference value of 3% of GDP for public deficit would not rise again in 2002.
They also committed themselves to the very strict control of budgetary development in 2002 and to avoid any measure that could worsen the budget deficit and, naturally, to taking all the steps necessary to return, by 2004 at the latest, to a budgetary position closer to a balance, in the case of Germany, or an actual balance, in the case of Portugal.
The Council and the Commission considered that such commitments from the German and Portuguese Governments responded to the basis of the concerns expressed in the Commission's recommendations for which they would be forewarned.
The Council's motives were given in two declarations on the budgetary situation of these two Member States, which were made public.
The Council would never take a decision that would cause harm either consciously or voluntarily.
The Council only takes decisions when it believes they are in the best interests of the Union and its Member States.
In the case of Ireland, the Council took the decision it deemed appropriate - I imagine it took specific considerations into account - and then, in the case of Portugal and Germany, it took another decision it also deemed appropriate.
I have to tell you that several Members have requested to ask supplementary questions, but I can only give the floor to two more Members in the order in which they asked to speak.
Mr President, this issue does not fall within the competence of the President-in-Office of the Council and, therefore, I cannot answer.
Question No 14 by Raimon Obiols i Germà (H-0090/02): Subject: Prospects for the Barcelona Process On 24 January, speaking before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Presidency-in-Office of the Council expressed concern about the economic and political progress being made in the Barcelona Process.
Mr President, the Presidency has supported efforts to develop the Barcelona Process from the start.
In the new international climate following the events of 11 September, the Ghent European Council of 19 and 20 October 2001 considered it fundamentally important to encourage dialogue on equal terms between our communities and those from the Arab and Muslim world, particularly within the framework of the Barcelona Process.
Taking this into account, the strengthening of activities within the Barcelona process is, in fact, one of the Spanish Presidency's priorities, with the intention that the Euro-Mediterranean Conference of Foreign Affairs Ministers in Valencia on 22 and 23 April should be a success.
I should also like to say that, up to now, we have received more or less the same response from all countries in the Barcelona process guaranteeing their presence at the Valencia Conference.
I believe that, in view of the difficult circumstances we are facing with regard to the Middle East peace process, the fact that all delegations have announced their willingness to participate in the Valencia Conference is already proof of a spirit of cooperation and a desire to use the framework of the Barcelona Council to overcome the difficulties faced by the Arab and Israeli parties in the Middle East peace process.
Therefore, in light of the response he has given me, I would like to reformulate my question and ask two that are very specific.
Frankly, I believe that it is very possible that we will find a solution to this issue in Barcelona, because we would very much like to be able to put this plan forward in the ministerial meeting that will take place in Valencia with regard to the Barcelona process.
A5-0069/2002 by Mr Goebbels on insider dealing and market manipulation (market abuse) (COM(2001) 281 - C5-0262/2001 - 2001/0118(COD)).
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the reports we are examining today show that the sacrosanct objective of ensuring transparency and a high level of disclosure in the financial markets may conflict with other equally important requirements, such as not overwhelming small enterprises with excessive administrative burdens.
It is a mechanism that may prompt useful comparisons between the practices of the authorities in the Member States.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs unanimously supports the comitology arrangements, reflecting the Lamfalussy report and its parliamentary counterpart, the von Wogau report.
We have drawn up a list of financial instruments to ensure that new products fall within the scope of the directive.
I regard the agreement between Parliament, Commission and Council on most of the proposals as a great success.
Madam President, Mr Huhne, although we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs voted for your report - I am speaking of the Huhne report - that certainly does not mean that we supported it wholeheartedly.
Unfortunately, for the time being we have only been able to agree on a market capitalisation of EUR 350 million.
The Commission's proposal is in many respects an invaluable step forward.
Within the limitations of my speaking time I can mention just the major necessary amendments we adopted in committee.
Companies that wish to remain in their home country will obviously not benefit from this sort of single market and so will have no need for a securities prospectus of this kind.
This would make the work of SMEs, in particular, easier, but would of course also offer them the opportunity, if they so wished, to acquire such a single market prospectus, thereby enjoying the advantages of the single market.
Madam President, I would first like to congratulate the Commission on its proposal on the prospectus that it initially forwarded to us.
I think we can improve the text but I am afraid that Parliament will ruin it if it supports the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and I hope that the vote tomorrow will enable us to make the necessary adjustments.
We are all in favour of the unification of the financial markets.
We need a financial market that is open, accessible to all, mature, transparent, safe and sound, with no distortion of competition and with protection for all, which means access to cheap financial services for companies but also protection of savers, which means all savers, including small-time savers.
In order to do that, I think that there are two fundamental principles that we need to restore in the text that we have received from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
First of all, we need a simple rule regarding the authority responsible for monitoring the prospectus, which is the rule of the country where the issuer has its headquarters.
We need just as much information on SMEs as we do on large companies.
Madam President, regarding conglomerates I would like to support a number of the amendments adopted in committee.
This House has made it very clear that it wishes that investors be given access to a wide range of different equities.
As regards Article 14 I hope that the Council and Commission will progress the discussions.
The Commission's proposal applies a "one size fits all" framework designed for large equity issues to the diverse range of European financial markets.
Parliament should amend the proposal in order to reflect the diversity of those markets.
As recent events have shown only too clearly, the American regulatory system is not always a good one.
We should exempt smaller businesses from part of the proposals, as proposed by the committee, and it is especially important that we recognise that there are particular concerns related to smaller businesses, particularly those which are only raising capital and doing business in one part of the European Union.
Where there are very sophisticated markets - indeed one of the most successfully integrated markets in the European Union - it makes no sense to apply protections designed for retail investors in equities.
I would also like to congratulate him on his report on financial conglomerates.
This structure will need to become more efficient, more transparent and less decentralised in order to be truly effective.
Madam President, the regulation of the stock market must be able to reconcile two objectives: firstly, to give European companies more opportunities to obtain money more cheaply, and secondly, to protect the investor.
I believe that this reconciliation has been achieved in the report on market abuse and also thanks to several compromise amendments in the Directive regulating the audit or control of financial conglomerates.
I believe that the formula proposed by the Commission is more coherent and gives greater respect to the previous Directives, and shows a greater degree of common sense - that it is the national authority which has the best knowledge of the applicable national law, of which it should inform the investor - and that, above all, it presents the least risks, because the absolute freedom formula, in my opinion, opens up a competition, a race between the supervisory authorities to make things too easy and attract investors who would be a threat to legal certainty.
I cannot agree with the rapporteur on the last point with regard to the exclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises, even more so when we bear in mind that small and medium-sized enterprises have a capital of ESP 350 million, which would mean the exclusion of 80% of companies quoted on the stock exchange.
I can therefore accept the following amendments without reservation: Amendments Nos 2, 3, 7 to 10; Amendment No 9 as corrected by Amendment No 50; Nos 18 to 30, 35, 36, 40 and 42.
In the same way there are a number of amendments which I can accept in spirit.
Amendment No 6 could be improved by combining the elements in Amendment No 9 to give a good set of macro-economic criteria to determine which groups are covered by the directive.
That is also a welcome clarification but the wording could be tightened up.
Amendment No 31 requires the Commission to consult industry.
The Commission is in favour of as wide and as representative a consultation as possible.
Amendments Nos 32 to 34, 44, 46 and 48 seek to amend what should be deducted from capital to prevent the so-called double-gearing of capital and artificially inflate a company's capital base.
The 20% threshold for insurance deductions appears to be a good compromise.
The proposed wording just needs some improvement to ensure the overall coherence of the text.
But Amendments Nos 43, 45 and 47, which completely contradict Amendments Nos 44, 46 and 48, are then not acceptable.
Firstly, amendments that significantly narrow the scope of the directive: namely Amendments Nos 4, 5, 11, 12 and 49.
They will limit the measures to groups with a parent/subsidiary relationship only.
There are groups that are organised on a different basis which would then escape supervision, for example, horizontal cooperatives or mutual groups such as Rabo Bank in the Netherlands or the DG Bank in Germany.
After the Spanish BANESTO case we all know how important it is to include such cases in our supervision, in particular for intra-group transactions.
A second group of amendments which I unfortunately cannot support concern the calculation of capital adequacy.
They are Amendments Nos 15, 16, 37 and 39.
I can accept moving the substance from the annex to the articles of the directive but I cannot support the additional substantive changes on the definition of capital.
Firstly, the English text of Amendment No 16 changes one word in the original proposal and consequently opens the door to acceptance of all types of capital to cover risks, irrespective of the quality of that capital.
Secondly, I cannot accept including minority interests in group capital - that is, the last sentence of Amendment No 15 - if all the risks in the group are not also covered.
The third group of amendments which I cannot support are those that give our financial groups the freedom to choose the way in which they calculate their capital adequacy.
This concerns Amendments Nos 1, 13, 14, 38 and 51.
They cannot abdicate this to the industry through self-regulation, and I agree that the authorities should discuss and agree with each group how its capital adequacy should be calculated.
With a few exceptions which I have mentioned, it really contributes to a rapid agreement and I am confident that it will be possible to work out acceptable compromises on the following amendments: Nos 1, 4, 5, 11 to 16, 37 to 39, 49 and 51.
This directive must contribute to increasing investor protection and to making European financial markets surer and more attractive in future.
I am certain all Members are aware that recent events have shown how important those issues are.
It is not only the attacks of 11 September that have proven the necessity of high market protection.
The smooth functioning of financial markets and public confidence in them are the conditions for sustained economic growth and wealth.
With this directive, we ensure high market integrity, and establish common standards against market abuse throughout Europe, making European financial markets more attractive in future.
Furthermore, during the debate on the report by Lord Inglewood concerning international accounting standards last Monday, I once again underlined our full commitment to this important declaration regarding the implementation of financial services legislation.
Secondly, the amendment does not reflect all the elements that have been agreed between our institutions, and there are some differences between the wording of the declaration of President Prodi and the wording of Amendment No 2 which might result in misinterpretations.
That would be a major achievement for the integration of European financial markets by the year 2005 to which we all aspire, as well as a sign of confidence for the Barcelona European Council.
Many amendments have been proposed and they result in clarification of our proposal.
We can accept 46 amendments: Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 7 to 9, 13, 18, 19, 22 to 26, 29, 30, 38, 39, 41, 43, 44 to 56, 58 to 61, 63, 64, 66 to 72 and 75, but we may have to redraft some of them to ensure the overall coherence of the text.
For the Commission, the prospectus proposal has two aims: to facilitate fundraising for European issuers, and to ensure an adequate level of investor protection.
Investor protection has been neglected too often in the discussion.
The second cause for worry is that some of the amendments proposed will result in more fragmentation, not less.
Let me be clear on this point, and let me be clear to this House, that my colleagues and I will spare no effort to reach an agreement with Parliament on this crucial text for a single capital market, but we must resolve those problems.
Let me now briefly address possible solutions to some of the most important political issues.
As regards the annual updating of the prospectus, we might contemplate exempting SMEs but we shall certainly stay firm as regards big companies, not least because 300 of our largest companies listed in the United States already comply with this obligation.
Our investors should have the same disclosure as United States investors.
To sum up, the Commission rejects 29 amendments.
Regarding Amendment No 10, we accept the amendments on comitology because they reflect our agreement on that matter, but we consider that Amendment No 10 is redundant.
We consider Amendment No 10 to be redundant given Amendment No 1, which refers to the resolution of Parliament and my letter to Mrs Randzio-Plath.
Thank you, Mr Bolkestein.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
A5-0048/2002 by Mr Della Vedova on tax policy in the European Union - Priorities for the years ahead (COM(2001) 260 - C5-0597/2001 - 2001/2248(COS)).
The authors of this directive were aware of the opportunities arising for the evasion of national capital gains tax as a result of this liberalisation, by investing in a country other than the investor's country of residence; to summarise this situation, we can say that the risk was, and continues to be, that each Member State, each member of the single market that was being set up at that time and is now up and running, would act as a tax haven for the other Member States.
In 1997, the Commission made a new proposal, within the so-called Monti package, based on the coexistence model, on which Parliament was able to draw up a report, but at the end of the day this did not receive unanimous support from the Council either.
Firstly, the Member States would be committed to setting up a system for information exchange with regard to the payment of interest to a resident of another Member State, that is to say, this would involve the lifting of banking secrecy.
Secondly, and as an exceptional and transitional system, it has been stated that certain States, Belgium, Austria and Luxembourg to be precise, should apply, in place of this information exchange - in other words, instead of the lifting of banking secrecy - a system for deduction at source.
Finally, the implementation of the whole of this legal framework was dependent and still is dependent on negotiations with third countries, such as Switzerland, the United States and Andorra, for the application of equivalent measures, and the application of the same measures by the Member States in territories dependent on those Member States, such as the Channel Islands.
Our opinion on the proposal for a Directive applying these Feira guidelines is entirely positive.
The main problem with this scheme, and I will conclude on this note, Madam President - and this cannot escape anyone's attention - are the negotiations with third countries.
I should specifically like to draw your attention to the following fact; the United States has been able, by means of an internal regulation, to implement a regulation, the so-called Qualified Intermediary Agreement, by virtue of which the Swiss banks and those from other countries are obliged to communicate to the Internal Revenue Service profits made by an American client - a US person - from assets which are also American, to lift banking secrecy with regard to these payments or even to apply a deduction at source of 30%.
For this reason, I must emphasise the positive contribution a joint action by the European Union and the United States could make in this area.
The first part of the report stresses that the constant growth of the tax burden over the last twenty years - something that has only slowed down slightly and has not stopped completely in the last couple of years - may well be one of the reasons for the poor growth in the European Union.
By stressing that a certain level of tax competition might be inevitable and might help to reduce tax pressure, the Commission communications appropriately recognise that it has a useful role in the context of rules preventing improper conduct.
The report takes up the principle of tax competition and emphasises it, pointing out that it is compatible - as the experience of recent years has shown - with constant coordination of fiscal regulations aimed at eliminating barriers to the internal market.
Tax competition is compatible with the completion of the internal market, which does not imply the absolute levelling-out of competitive conditions, and tax competition is just one of the many variables that determine the competitive regime within each country and between different countries.
As regards VAT, the report stresses the need to set up a system that applies in full the country-of-origin principle - prioritising the definitive system - on which the Commission documents are, in our view, still evasive.
As regards excise duties, particularly on alcohol and tobacco, the report reiterates Parliament's position as already expressed in the Katiforis report.
As regards energy taxation, I must stress that, in actual fact, the current competitive distortions and asymmetries in the energy market make it inappropriate now, at least, to propose tax harmonisation for energy products.
On the subject of direct taxes, Commissioner, the report hopes that progress towards full implementation of the measures contained in the tax package will be completed as soon as possible and, in particular, that any rules discriminating between residents and non-residents, which leave loopholes for fraud and are incompatible with the single market, will be removed.
The Commission and the Council have considered at least three hypothetical paths to take in their time, often changing their minds and their strategies.
In the end, they opted for the exchange of information and, after a heated debate in the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs, this was limited to natural persons.
Should any of them fail to accept the mechanism, it would undermine the whole directive because, if at the time of implementation the conditions in the Member States and third countries were not uniform, it would be highly feasible for substantial amounts of savings to be transferred in real time.
The conclusions of the Feira European Council unequivocally state that sufficient reassurances must be obtained from third countries regarding these or equivalent measures so that the adoption and implementation of the directive may be decided upon no later than 31 December 2002, by unanimity.
These States, however, as laid down in Amendment No 14 to Article 10 paragraph 1, will be required at the end of the transitional period to fully participate in the automatic exchange of information.
From this perspective, my Amendment No 6 to Article 3 paragraph 2 (b) also seeks to establish the full personal identity of all contractual relations made prior to the directive as soon as they show any kind of activity.
In this regard, it would be desirable to have a European personal data centre to check all major movements of money that may have - or are just suspected of having - connections with international terrorism.
Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Pérez Royo, very warmly for his report, which makes it very clear what progress still needs to be made in this field.
We all know what a difficult area EU tax coordination is.
At the same time, we also know that tax competition can have very harmful effects on Europe's economies and on the choice of locations for investment in the European Union.
I would specifically like to thank Mr Della Vedova for having highlighted the issue of codecision by the European Parliament again in his role as rapporteur, since I believe that in the context of treaty reform and the discussions on a European constitution we also need to consider where the boundaries of national sovereignty lie when it comes to taxation policy.
I believe that in the case of company taxation we are still a long way from achieving what the Monti Package was at one point attempting to do.
In any case, we need to make sure that tax havens are finally abolished and that favourable tax treatment for non-resident legal or natural persons, which distort competition, is finally eliminated.
Madam President, I am only going to discuss the Pérez Royo report, and I wish to say that I am far from happy with the compromise reached in Feira on the taxation of savings.
The result is a compromise.
The proposal is therefore no longer the result of the right of initiative that is reserved for the Commission.
Our Socialist rapporteur had tried to radicalise this proposal for a directive by moving away from the Feira agreement.
I remain convinced that the automatic exchange of information between Member States on interest payments is a means and not an essential condition for ensuring effective taxation of cross-border interest payments.
It would also be a model that could be adopted by the third countries that are our competitors and with which we need to have reached an agreement in order for them to introduce genuinely equivalent measures before the Directive is applied in the European Union.
Clearly, if Switzerland, for example, rejects the exchange of information due to its legitimate commitment to banking secrecy, there can be no question of my country, for example, which clearly declared its support at Feira for the exchange of information, implementing it.
I am convinced that the exchange of information will not be the solution that is ultimately chosen.
The most effective and least bureaucratic solution would be full withholding tax, which, with a reasonable rate, could even become an own resource of the European Union.
When I read the Commission proposal, it once again fails to state this in the text which normally should reflect the agreement of Feira.
This is why I should like to ask the Commissioner once more what, in his opinion, are the advantages and disadvantages of including this stipulation, and I should also like to ask him if he could once again inform us of the current state of affairs in the negotiations involving third countries.
Madam President, I should also like to thank Mr Della Vedova for his report on the Commission's communications, on our general tax policy and on company taxation in the internal market.
Such taxes can create an immediate obstacle to the free movement of goods and the free supply of services within the internal market.
Indeed a certain degree of harmonisation in that area has already taken place.
But there is an intermediate zone of direct taxation of mobile tax bases - in particular the taxation of companies and capital - where the situation is less clear-cut and which may have direct effects on the internal market.
This is where our communication devoted to company taxation comes in.
I now turn to the proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings.
Firstly, I am pleased to note that a substantial number of the proposed amendments correspond to changes agreed by of the ECOFIN Council in the draft directive approved on 13 December 2001, for the purpose of negotiations with third countries.
The large measure of agreement between the Council and Parliament on the text of the proposal cannot but strengthen the Community's negotiating position in the discussion with third countries.
The Commission takes the view that the amendments agreed by the Council on 13 December improve and clarify the legal texts, but that they do not substantially change the proposal for a directive.
A number of the amendments proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs related to the negotiations with third countries and Member States' dependent and associated territories, and more particularly to Parliament's role in these discussions.
This is exactly why the Commission asked for and obtained authorisation from the Council to enter into negotiations with the six third countries mentioned in the Faro European Council conclusions.
The discussions with third countries and dependent territories should hopefully be finalised before the summer.
I must emphasise that the Faro Agreement provides that these negotiations with third countries and dependent and associated territories should precede the adoption of the directive.
The Commission cannot therefore accept amendments that would make the application of the directive, once adopted, dependent on the outcome of such negotiations.
There is a risk that such amendments might undermine our negotiating position vis-à-vis the third countries who quite rightly want to be sure that Member States will implement the directive if they agree to apply equivalent measures.
Those agreements are a political condition for adoption of the directive.
Thank you, Mr Bolkestein.
I only referred to the people of my own country.
Since I was shadow rapporteur for my group during a previous round - dealing with the second proposal by the Commission on this subject - I did follow this issue to some extent, Mrs Lulling.
Thank you, Mrs Thyssen.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Madam President, at this late hour, anyone can make a mistake.
They would most certainly be mistaken, but this error would demonstrate at least three things: firstly, the current lack of transparency in the European Union's institutional architecture; secondly, the lack of information for citizens from their governments in areas such as those we are dealing with and, without a doubt, the most important thing, that reality is way ahead of the decisions taken at Intergovernmental Conferences to date.
The citizens believe that the European Union has its own personality, yet the governments in these Conferences have had no desire to provide it with one.
The European Union has existed since the Treaty of Maastricht, which is some time ago now, but neither at that time nor since has it wanted to expressly take on a legal personality; the latest example of this was the Treaty of Nice.
The question I would like to ask is the following: can we really uphold this contradictory and barely understandable situation for much longer?
The answer to this question is becoming more and more clear - 'no? - because the current situation causes legal confusion, political confusion, international and internal confusion, institutional confusion and, above all, as I said at the beginning of my speech, confusion amongst the citizens.
Furthermore, this report has been produced at the same time as the start of the Convention on the future of Europe, which this Parliament hopes will produce a constitution.
This will therefore be our first contribution to the Convention after it has been set up.
It is logical that this issue should also be dealt with.
In fact, this is a necessary prerequisite to achieving these objectives in a coherent way.
And this House also needs to be aware that agreements are entered into at present without Parliament having a chance to approve them beforehand.
Budgetary commitments are made in international agreements which then have to be honoured by Parliament at a later stage because of our particular role.
Mr President, the resolution on the legal personality of the European Union is one of Parliament's contributions to the Convention charged with drawing up the European Constitution.
In reality, Europe is not a threat to national identities, and national identities are not a threat to Europe.
In the past the Treaty has attributed legal personality to the European Communities, but with the birth of the Union there is a legal void to fill.
Public opinion and all countries that have relations with Europe are convinced that their relations are with an autonomous and unitary system.
Moreover, in the sphere of foreign policy, defence and security, the European Council can deliberate on procedures that represent the beginnings of a legal personality.
Construction by pillars reveals a problem, which Mr Carnero's proposal remedies by taking up a 1997 Parliamentary resolution on international law, Community law and the constitutions of the individual Member States.
This resolution made express reference back then to the need to give the Union a legal personality.
Mr President, the Carnero González report raises a fundamental and timely issue, an important aspect of which is the problem of the Union's legal personality.
It is easy to say what the issue is: the European Union needs at last to be given a face, a clear profile.
Thus for decades there was a succession of partial achievements and de facto solidarity, to borrow an expression dear to Jean Monnet and enshrined in the Schuman Declaration of 9 May 1950.
Things went forward like that, without too much definition of the political and institutional individual that was growing up, without too much pretence at coherence in the building of Europe.
We must respond to the citizens' legitimate questions and present ourselves as a union that has its own plan, that equips itself with clear institutional checks and balances, that recognises itself through a Constitution, that wants to play a strong international role, and therefore endows itself with a legal personality.
This evening, in the splendid Carnero González report, we have part of the answer.
The acquisition of an international legal personality would be a powerful instrument for the Union.
But international legal personality cannot simply be asserted unilaterally.
What will assist us in winning this acceptance is for the Union itself to become a contracting party to the Council of Europe's Convention - a move that will complement the development of our own fundamental rights regime funded on the Charter.
This is why the report is right, in a sense, in saying that this reform would not in itself imply transfers of powers to the Union.
It is true that a simple association of States making unanimous decisions could have legal personality.
I am happy to accept the legal personality of the Union if, in exchange, Mr Carnero González agrees to say that, if a European constitution came into being, it should first and foremost acknowledge the superiority of the national constitutions, the freedom of choice of the Member States on the world stage and unanimous decision-making or variable geometry in the third pillar.
If you agree to say all of that, Mr Carnero González, I would perhaps vote for your report, but you will not say this because your report is in fact hiding something other than what it claims.
Mr President, on this report the British Conservatives will abstain.
The Convention is an excellent opportunity to do this work.
That is a good thing, because we want Europol to function, but the funding cannot be accepted, because Europol cannot accept money from the Community budget, but only from the Member States.
This demonstrates the absurdity of this situation, and I hope that our representatives and others involved in the Convention will take a step forward as regards legal personality and that the rights of our citizens will finally become binding, so that they can take the Union to court.
It is very important that those who will be taking a position in the Convention and during the next IGC should be aware of the importance of this question for the effectiveness and the credibility of the Union and of the need to find an appropriate solution.
We know the weaknesses of the current system and how difficult it is for outsiders to understand - just like the other solutions resisted by the Commission in the past, such as the addition of yet another legal personality to the current set-up.
The European Parliament can count on the Commission to support the terms of this resolution in the forthcoming debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Since 2000, however, the Cotonou Agreement has brought about a new context that profoundly changes the very nature of this report.
After 2000, which had raised great hopes of a new era in relations between the EU and ACP States, 2001 did not fulfil all its promise.
Only three countries have ratified the agreement: Denmark, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and us, the European Union.
Although we are aware that the procedures are long in many European countries, this sends out a political message and a negative signal to the ACP countries.
The question of voting rights is fundamental, and the debate over Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure has led to numerous controversies.
The principle of representation by parliamentarians alone must be forcefully reaffirmed, and the compromise drawn up by the Working Group, which specifies limited cases of difficulty in which voting by non-parliamentarians is permitted, is the final position that we can accept here.
I will only mention some of them, such as a specific instrument to contribute to democracy: the democratic bonus, financial or material aid to improve the functioning of democratically elected parliaments and a better representation of the opposition.
In fact, each country speaks with just one voice.
For now, the proposal of three delegates per country, put forward by my fellow Member Mr Martinez last year, is heading in the right direction.
Following a rigorous financial assessment by the Commission, a special fund would be reserved to cover the travel costs of ACP parliamentary representatives only and for the organisation of sessions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Carlotti for her excellent report.
Mrs Carlotti has already gone into many of the recommendations contained in the report just now.
The Cotonou Agreement led to a fundamental reformulation of the goals of cooperation between the EU and the ACP States.
The result is an ambitious agreement that opens up new horizons for cooperation.
The report calls for enhanced cooperation with civil society and non-governmental organisations.
It is very regrettable that ratification of the agreement in the EU Member States is moving forward at such a sluggish pace.
The report underlines that Cotonou is a major step forward in the process set out some decades ago for cooperation between the European Union and a growing number of African, Caribbean and Pacific States, with the aim of aiding their development.
Europeans have not granted this new agreement to our partners, but have fully and rigorously negotiated it with them.
It is an agreement which, in addition to its economic and commercial component, introduces an innovative political dimension that should allow the ACP-EU Community, united in its proclaimed democratic values with a great capacity for influence in its pursuit of a just, balanced, free, lawful, peaceful world where prosperity is reasonably divided and shared, to burst onto the world stage.
Hence the appeals of the rapporteur, first of all, to those Member States who do not consider the ratification of the Cotonou agreement a priority.
The report also highlights our ACP partners' responsibilities to achieve what is set out in the agreement so that the Joint Assembly can be set up once and for all.
They will then need to adjust themselves to democratic standards, the respect for human rights and the Rule of Law, as guarantees for their own progress and to effectively contribute to a world of stability and peace which is the objective of the Cotonou agreement.
The situation is a little better where the ACP countries are concerned, but the overall number of signatories is, of course, still by no means large enough.
I am struck, in particular, by how strongly the theme of genuine partnership shines through; how the EU/ACP Joint Parliamentary Assembly is a unique relationship in modern political life and - imperfect as it is - it can stand as a model for new and innovative relations between North and South, which are perhaps today needed more urgently than ever before to build a more peaceful and sustainable world.
These have the potential to have damaging effects on some of the poorest ACP countries who are simply not ready to open their markets to the EU and who do not have the negotiating capacity to engage not only in this process and the WTO process but also in the process of their own regional cooperation agreements.
ACP-EU cooperation has gained a new democratic aspect, and that means that we also need to provide a new democratic dimension in shaping this cooperation.
They will also give a voice to other people involved in ACP cooperation who have not so far had an opportunity to have their views heard.
The Joint Parliamentary Assembly has adapted its work according to the new role that it has been given, in particular to promote democratic processes.
But its powers are limited.
It remains just a platform for political expression, without any decision-making or executive powers.
It should therefore be given new powers, both political as well as financial and operational, and the logistical resources to go with them.
A working group responsible for evaluating the involvement of civil society in the partnership should therefore be created.
In the same way, parliamentarians should be involved in the forthcoming negotiations on the future ACP-EU trade regime.
Our current partnerships with 77 countries in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific should set an example for relations between the European Union and the United States, and also EU candidate countries, which we have been very enthusiastically debating in the recent past.
If EU Member States do not show much interest in these partnerships, which is borne out by the aforementioned fact that only four Member States have ratified the Cotonou Agreement, Parliament should do so, particularly because relations with these countries are based, according to the new agreement, on political dialogue, of which the Parliamentary Assembly is a fundamental pillar.
The Joint Assembly, like this Parliament, is deeply involved in a process where its Rules of Procedure are being reformed, having, as its aim, the true democratisation of ACP-EU relations.
At the moment it is not balanced because, whilst on the European side the range of ideologies and political sensitivities that make up the European Parliament are represented, the ACP countries have only one vote per country; a vote which obviously represents the authorities' opinions; it is not balanced in terms of equality between the sexes either.
I would ask the Commission and the Council to make resources available to ACP countries to improve their institutional capacity, especially with regard to representative institutions, and to promote the organisation of civil society and their participation in cooperation programming.
I have noted what has been said by a number of people about the need to broaden participation to allow for a more representative reflection of views.
Another important point concerns a revision of the rules on financing to ensure the full participation of ACP parliamentarians in the Assembly's sessions and other meetings.
We are prepared to look into a possible revision of the agreement governing our contribution to the fund for the participation of ACP members.
For that reason, it is even more relevant and natural to engage the parliamentarians closely in specific discussions about the overall functioning of cooperation.
Finally, Mr President, it is true - several Members have pointed out - that we are lagging behind in the ratification process.
I would not like to see a situation emerging where we have a slowdown in the real disbursement and real level of planning activity because of a failure of one or more Member States to ratify.
I very much appreciate what has been said tonight and urge Members of the European Parliament to encourage completion of this process in their own countries.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, I think it has become increasingly clear that issues of cooperation and of development today lie at the heart of international policy.
It is crucial that we achieve more effective cooperation and are more successful in the objective of the sustainable development of various parts of the world as the essential condition for a more secure and more peaceful future.
It is within this strategy that the Union European must put its strengths to advantage in the field of external policy, not least because it is the only area in which the European Union can come out on top without necessarily causing victims.
It is, therefore, appropriate that this should be included in the Commission communication on civil society and development, which Commissioner Nielson promised us for the autumn.
Nevertheless, the Cotonou agreement also emphasises the importance of the contribution of civil society to development and suggests that 'it can be enhanced by strengthening community organisations and non-profit non-governmental organisations in all spheres of cooperation'.
Our contribution as the European Parliament focused on providing the regulation with greater coherence and cohesion.
Consequently, if the proposals before us are adopted, we will have a regulation on decentralised cooperation that guarantees us the following: firstly, an instrument that is extended to 2003 with a financial framework of EUR 24 million; secondly, the commitment to consolidate decentralised cooperation as a guide for cooperation policy, which gives a more significant role to local players, thereby giving them an incentive to take greater responsibility in the process of developing the very societies in which they live and in their relationship with their Europeans partners; thirdly and lastly, the commitment to the future existence of decentralised cooperation as a method for strengthening the objectives stated by the Commission itself for the 'appropriation by the partner countries of their own development strategies and of the widest possible participation by all sectors of society?.
First of all, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, and thank her for the efforts she has made in this field.
I should now like to turn to the report on decentralised cooperation.
Personally, I am convinced that development from the bottom up, which directly involves small groups of citizens, has a far more positive effect with an eye to the fair, democratic and self-sufficient society which we hope to build.
Mr President, the European Parliament was behind the creation of a budget heading for decentralised cooperation in the 1990s.
The Lomé Convention Section 4a also incorporated this idea, thus departing from the principle of cooperation between States.
In the same way, the Cotonou Agreement dedicates the participation of civil society in the ACP countries to the partnership, at the expense of decentralised cooperation, which seems to have disappeared.
The communication on civil society in developing countries promised by the Commission several months ago should have clarified these notions and set out a coordinated approach for the European Union in this area, but we are still awaiting it.
The Commission appears to have realised this, as it plans to merge these two budget headings, but the limited adjustments that are being made, without consulting the European Parliament, are not sufficient.
The transfers of funds from one budgetary heading to another demonstrate a lack of an overall perspective and show little consideration for the budgetary authority.
These two extra years should therefore be used for in-depth discussion on the European Union's cooperation with local players in developing countries and their contribution to sustainable development.
This question is becoming increasingly urgent with the implementation of the Cotonou Agreement.
In this respect, support for elections and increasing institutional capacity at the different levels of decision-making and administration are essential.
They can also take an economic and social role in companies or associations.
Direct aid to NGOs and SMEs is therefore equally important.
These two aspects are not contradictory but do in fact complement each other.
The objective of our proposal was simply to extend the legal basis for the decentralised cooperation budget line for an additional period of two years.
This will ensure the continuity of the budget line and give time for a thorough discussion with all the partners concerned on the role the budget line should play in the strengthening of local actors in the South.
The outcome of this discussion should then provide the basis for a revision of the strategic guidelines for the decentralised cooperation instrument.
I understand Parliament's concern that the various instruments to strengthen local actors should be integrated into a coherent strategy on the involvement of civil society in the South in development cooperation.
A communication on a strategy to support civil society in developing countries is planned for the second half of this year.
And has been said here, we have systems which vary quite a lot among the ACP countries and the rest of our partner countries.
We expect the debate on civil society involvement to feed into the discussion on the continued promotion of decentralised cooperation and the future of a specific budget line in this area.
I would like to make one more comment on this: the support we can give to NGOs and non-governmental actors in the future in ACP countries is something that goes far beyond the power and potential of this budget line.
For countries outside the ACP, the situation is different and much more dependent on the individual strategy that we agree with each country.
The proposed amendments are mainly intended to ensure compliance with the latest comitology procedures and coherence with other recently adopted regulations in the area of development cooperation.
I hope that the Council will also agree to all Parliament's amendments and that the regulation can thus be adopted as soon as possible in terms reflecting this first reading.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
We now have before us the question on parental responsibility that we have tabled.
Peace has reigned between very different societies, but within families there is often conflict when love is shattered.
The Tampere European Council identified visiting rights as a priority in the creation of a single judicial area where decisions can circulate freely from one Member State to another.
This means going beyond the balance struck in the Hague Conventions while, at the same time, recognising their value in addressing international situations.
To this end, in November 2001, the Commission presented a proposal on the signature of the 1996 Hague Convention.
This now appears possible, especially in the light of the recognition during the informal meeting of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers in Santiago de Compostela in February 2002 of the need for a Community-specific solution giving the final say in cases of child abduction to the Member State of the child's habitual residence with the Member State to which the child has been abducted being able to take provisional measures only.
Honourable Members are perfectly correct in pointing out the importance of mutual trust between national judges for the execution of decisions issued in another Member State.
For several years the Commission has, through the Grotius and Grotius-civil programmes, continuously supported projects aimed at bringing together judges from different countries to improve mutual understanding of legal systems between Member States.
Support for such projects will continue to be available through the new framework programme for judicial cooperation in civil matters, to be adopted by the end of March.
You may wish to know that, as concerns the implementation of the new programme in 2002, the Commission is considering giving priority to training for legal practitioners on Community instruments in the area of judicial cooperation in civil matters, including, for example, the Brussels II Regulation.
The network will also facilitate mutual understanding of the legal systems of the Member States, as well as providing a means of identifying and solving problems related to judicial cooperation in civil matters.
Consequently, the Commission considers that the necessary instruments - as concerns judicial cooperation in civil matters, including the family law area - are already in place to reach the objectives the Members refer to.
Mr President, Commissioner, you have listed a lot of very worthy projects.
The problem is that there are quite a number of serious practical problems that we have to deal with.
In Sweden we have two cases of fathers seeking visiting rights to their children: Philippe Paquay and Kevin Willoughby.
The problem is that particularly in Germany, social workers seem to be able, under German law, to make decisions about access and custody which, in some cases, take no note of decisions made in courts in other countries.
Commissioner, you mentioned the Hague Convention of 1996 which, thankfully, was recognised last November.
This is causing serious problems because at the heart of that legislation is the recognition of the right of every child to know and have access to both its parents.
This is an inviolable right if we wish to face up to the reality and resolve conflicts in a harmonious manner.
But as it is the details that cause the problem, it is essential that the conditions for the return of children be respected.
Finally, I would just like to ask you for clarification on the third part of our question: what do you think of the idea that the Commission could launch a working group in order to have a discussion between Europeans of the tricky notion, which pollutes many of the judgments, that of the interests of the child, which we have included in the Charter of Fundamental Rights?
I believe he has been denied and is still being denied the fundamental right to see this child and has been denied access to justice.
Mrs Gebhardt referred to two key words: help and enable.
Indeed, security was the raison d'être for what has become the European Union today.
Nowadays, we are at peace and people expect to be safe, but too often the European Union is accused of meddling in things that are not important and too much of what the European Parliament appears to do is irrelevant to ordinary peoples' lives.
President, Commissioner, over the years Parliament, the Council and the Commission have all worked to secure a common market for goods and capital, fair trade and free trade for those with money.
I have noted with great care and interest the different contributions in this discussion and we have moved it another step forward this evening.
Thank you, Commissioner, on behalf of all the Members present, for your answer. (The sitting was closed at 12. 05 a.m.) My vote and the votes of my fellow Members on the Rapkay-Turmes report can be explained as follows: 1.
It concerns the daily lives of millions of citizens who, in future, will not be able to count on having a uninterrupted gas and electricity supply, which are some of the public services that each State, and now Europe, made a commitment to provide. 3.
The Commission's resistance to the single tariff regardless of place of residence and the meaning of this vote express a fear of the harmful effects of liberalisation. 6.
This also means that we are and will remain vigilant so that the right to energy for all and the protection of citizens' public services are guaranteed.
