At the same time, we must make it clear that, when we negotiate with countries and promise them further negotiations, we keep those promises and that, when we bestow candidate status on a country, it is actually treated as a candidate country.
We must also consider whether, with our membership having risen to 27 countries - and perhaps Croatia will shortly become the 28th member - we do not now need a consolidation phase so as to ensure that everything in the European Union is actually put into proper working order.
For this reason we need new instruments in the area between full membership and the neighbourhood policy, so that these countries' European perspective does not merely give them hope but is actually associated with real progress in areas such as free trade and the Schengen system.
In other words, we can develop very close relations, and then a decision can be taken in each case as to whether both sides want this close cooperation to continue on a permanent basis or whether they want it to be a transitional stage on the way to full membership.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, the Council would like to thank the European Parliament and in particular Mr Brok, for his report on the Commission's 2007 enlargement strategy paper, and to take advantage of this opportunity to applaud the active part played by Parliament, and its invaluable contribution to the enlargement process.
Mr Brok's report shows that the latest enlargement has been a success both for the European Union and for the Member States that have acceded to it.
In December 2007, the Union agreed that future enlargement strategy would be based on consolidation of commitments, on equitable and rigorous conditionality, and on improved communication.
With regard to Turkey, the screening, that is to say the first formal stage for each chapter, has been completed for 23 chapters, in eight of which negotiations have been opened.
With regard to Croatia, negotiations have been opened in 20 chapters, and have been provisionally closed in two of them.
On 17 June, intergovernmental conferences were held at ministerial level with Turkey and Croatia to open negotiations with Turkey in Chapter 6, 'Company law', and Chapter 7, 'Intellectual property law', and with Croatia in Chapter 2, 'Freedom of movement for workers', and Chapter 19, 'Social policy and employment'.
Thus the European Union is encouraging Croatia to continue its efforts to establish good relations with neighbouring countries, including work designed to find definitive solutions that are acceptable to both parties, and, of course, to resolve the remaining bilateral issues with its neighbours.
Yet for the Western Balkans and Turkey, which have a clear membership perspective, the EU must not impose new intermediate stages before candidacy or accession.
I would like to use this opportunity to add a few words concerning today's events in Turkey and join Minister Jean-Pierre Jouyet in this matter.
I trust I can count on your support in this regard.
Previous enlargements have brought benefits both to the Union and the Member States.
Our existing European Neighbourhood Policy is not enough.
That is true of our neighbours to the south, and the EU has put forward a proposal for a Mediterranean Union, but it is truer still of our neighbours to the east.
I was very pleased to hear Commissioner Rehn say that we should not create any new ante-rooms for countries that wish to join the European Union, but should allow them to apply for direct access to the sitting room.
This is an essential part of the EU's ability to accept new Member States, and also a factor in increasing trust in Europe among its citizens.
However, the document we are now discussing is more likely to ring alarm bells in those countries thinking about joining the European Union, especially our closest neighbour, Ukraine.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, let me also thank Elmar Brok, who has taken the process concept on board in this report.
Croatia has to wait until 2011, Macedonia will not be in before 2014 at the earliest and for the other five countries of the Western Balkans the wait will be even longer.
Behind the debate on enlargement and neighbourhood policy there are two different kinds of thinking.
Enlargement by 10 new Member States in 2004 and by a further two in 2007 was undoubtedly a success for both the European Union and the above-mentioned countries that joined it.
However, I can safely say that, in spite of this fact, the 12 new Member States still perceive, on an ongoing basis, the differences between them and the 15 old Member States.
It has lost its purpose of acting as a contract between the 15 old Member States.
Today there are 27 of us and therefore the Lisbon Treaty must be ratified, but not because of enlargement.
Mr President, Britain, my country, was one of three countries to join in the first wave of enlargement back in 1973.
For those who question the EU's movement towards ever-closer Union, enlargement should theoretically produce a wider, looser and more flexible Europe and more debate about the EU's future direction.
I am convinced that a way can be found for Croatia to join the EU without the Lisbon Treaty.
Thank you. (PL) Mr President, academic jargon has started to loom larger than policy in our enlargement strategy.
Especially at this point in time, following the initiative of the newly elected President, Demetris Christofias, and the efforts being made by the leaders of the two communities, Turkey ought to comply and to refrain from placing any obstacle in the way of this new phase in the Cyprus issue.
The solution for Britain is to leave the European Union and regain control of its borders. (NL) Commissioner Rehn again said just now that Turkey has a clear perspective for full membership and that no new requirements should be imposed.
The reform process in Turkey has effectively ground to a halt and yet two weeks ago it was decided to open two new chapters in the negotiations.
The situation is different, however, in the countries of the Western Balkans, which have had a clear prospect of accession for some time.
Our political action there is the litmus test of our credibility in the field of foreign policy and the guarantor of lasting peace and stability in the EU.
Croatia is the first of the Western Balkan countries whose accession negotiations could be completed in 2009.
Personally, I am a not too optimistic about new accessions and about a new enlargement, at least in the immediate future, with the exception of Croatia.
A tool to aid us in that direction, as Mr Brok also admits, is the European Neighbourhood Policy.
Mr President, there can be no strategy without a scope of purpose.
Our duty and our ultimate scope is to grant security to our citizens.
I am particularly grateful to the Commissioner for that. (DE) Mr President, in my view the European enlargement policy has been a great success story.
As paragraph 19 of the report indicates, such an area or zone would be based on common policies in various areas, from the rule of law and democracy to education and migration.
The European Neighbourhood Policy and the so-called Barcelona Process - now the Mediterranean Union - need to ensure that countries on the southern shore do not feel as though they are being treated as second class citizens. (ES) Mr President, just a warning: in one minute there is no time for subtleties and so I am speaking solely on my own behalf.
The political elites of four or five countries in the latest 2004 enlargement have not, in my view, either understood or taken on board European policy or the Community acquis.
There can be no more enlargements until the Lisbon Treaty comes into force.
Finally, we should not prevent those countries which want to progress further from being impeded by the more Eurosceptic, nationalist or sovereignty-seeking countries. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Brok report the European Parliament demonstrates very clearly that it has learned the lessons of the last major wave of enlargement which saw the accession of twelve new Member States and that it has been able to catalogue all the resulting problems while effectively highlighting all the benefits that enlargement has brought to both the new and the old Member States.
By this I mean that the Union's development impetus and the pursuit of its aims must be boosted, not deflected, by the admission of new Member States.
Subsequent accessions of additional countries should not be excluded, but everything must be done in accordance with rules and conditions. (RO) The strengthening of the European Union's role as an actor on the international scene is impossible without continuous adjustment to the 21st century global context.
Of course, in strict legal terms, this is true at the moment, but, at the same time, we should make a clear distinction between the Lisbon Treaty and enlargement.
Therefore, strategic planning, actual negotiations and new initiatives in relation to further enlargement should continue in parallel to the efforts to ratify the Lisbon Treaty.
However, in order to continue the enlargement, we need a viable solution for the coming into force of the Lisbon Treaty. (SK) We have heard words such as enlargement fatigue, crisis or the need for consolidation.
I understand that the carrot-and-stick policy must be used in the case of a country where democracy is constantly under attack by its military, but there are limits to our patience and to our tolerance.
