Expenditure in the veterinary field (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Figueiredo, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council decision amending Decision 90/424/EEC on expenditure in the veterinary field C6-0199/2006.
It is interesting to note that we currently have a legal base for communication activities in animal welfare but not for animal health, and this is going to be corrected in the proposal.
We therefore wish to highlight 12 amendments aimed at achieving five key objectives, which are as follows: in view of the lack of knowledge of what has occurred with programmes for the eradication, control and monitoring of certain animal diseases in the various Member States, the first of the objectives is to call on the Commission to submit a report every four years to Parliament and the Council on the animal health situation and on the cost-effectiveness of implementing the programmes in the Member States, including an explanation of the criteria adopted.
In Portugal, where I am most familiar with the situation, bovine leucosis is a disease for which eradication programmes have been running for around 20 years, and it is now in the final stage of definitive eradication.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteur for her work on this report and the Commission for its contribution this evening.
Take Ireland in 2001, where we had a foot-and-mouth outbreak and the country came to a standstill.
Thankfully, we got it under control, but it showed what can happen when there are problems.
We extended the list of diseases; we are conscious that Article 6 allows for emergency situations, and that is to be welcomed.
The idea, for example, to allow emergency expenditure in a crisis is indeed essential, but the provision already exists in the decision under Article 3.
We will continue that approach but we feel that Article 16 is not the proper location.
Nevertheless, we can accept a final date of 30 April.
Nevertheless many of the diseases and issues raised will be or are being covered differently, for example, through the emergency expenditure (Article 3 of the decision).
Annex - Position of the Commission Figueiredo report The Commission can accept Amendments 7, 8 and 10.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 3, 5, 6, 9 and 11.
