&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 15 January 2004.(1) &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to question you on the information that you gave to Parliament on 12 January.
On the basis of Rule 7(4), of our Rules of Procedure, you referred the letter that you had received regarding the mandate of Mr Michel Raymond to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
The fact is that Mr Michel Raymond has been convicted, now that the French Supreme Court of Appeal has handed down its final judgment, of fraud relating to the European Union budget.
Quite simply, in the case of Jean-Marie Le Pen, which has some aspects in common with the case that we are now addressing, the European Union Court of First Instance ruled very clearly on 10&#160;April 2003, including an interpretation of the Act of 1976 and Rule 7(4), of our Rules of Procedure, on which you based your decision.
Mr Ibrahim, I welcome you and your colleagues, and underline the importance we attach to your visit in the present circumstances.
The Taoiseach has already either spoken to or met most of his colleagues on the European Council and will have been in contact with all of them before long.
Notwithstanding the importance of bilateral consultations, we felt that it was also important to recognise the collective nature of the IGC and to have an informal discussion of where we stand.
However, we all also recognise that there are sensitive and complex issues which remain to be resolved.
In these consultations with our partners and all those involved in the IGC, including of course the European Parliament, we are seeking to build a complete picture of the situation in the IGC.
This will help towards the second and more complex phase of our mandate to draw conclusions from our contacts and prepare a report for the March European Council.
However, we cannot compel agreement in the absence of the shared political will to achieve it.
For example, the text clearly sets out the allocation of competences between the Union and the Member States, and the principles governing their exercise.
It creates a single legal personality for the Union.
It enhances the role of this Parliament, and it also gives national parliaments an important part in the overall architecture.
The Convention’s report remains and will remain at the heart of the IGC's work.
In due course it will be our duty to seek national ratification, in some cases through referenda.
The work done in the run up to the Naples Conclave in late November 2003, and at Naples itself, was very productive.
The paper prepared immediately in advance of the European Council was particularly valuable and struck a very careful balance.
You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, were there when, a few weeks ago, the European Council in Brussels decided to take ‘Procrastination Road’ towards a European constitution.
The debate today, which this House wanted, is an opportunity for you to join with us in relaunching the constitutional process, and to preserve the European spirit that we have built up over eighteen months in the Convention.
In order to remobilise public opinion in general, we all need to work together to give this process hope again.
The first is that we want a general agreement.
A general agreement is not an agreement bit by bit or piece by piece, but an overall agreement, in which everyone can see a balance based on a text of which everyone is aware.
Naturally, we acknowledge the very useful work done under the impetus of the Italian Presidency, which was the subject of the preparatory document for the ministerial meeting in Naples.
The second conviction is that we want an agreement solely based on the draft constitution drawn up by the Convention.
You are of course aware of our institution’s position regarding this result.
The third conviction is that we want an agreement as soon as possible.
If we allow the symbolic deadline of 1 May or 9 May, or the politically more significant one that is primarily your own, 13 June to pass by, the draft constitution will not be very far from what I called at the beginning of my speech ‘Never-Never Land’.
As you said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the next meeting will be that of the European Council in March, where the Presidency will evaluate the results of its bilateral consultations and where we will all be able to verify the state of mind of the Heads of Government.
This is why, Mr President, the draft resolution prepared by this House has the Commission’s total approval and support. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I too wish to express my gratitude to the Irish Presidency of the Council, which, I believe, has given the necessary response to this House’s December resolution, and has got the debate moving.
Taking all these things together, there is, in my judgment, a real chance of this House’s objective being approached even before 1 May or prior to the European elections, and of a result being achieved.
At the same time, let us bear in mind what this House would like to see: further democratisation of the European Union, of course, and the Budget issue, which we see as decisive and to which I would like to return.
In the aftermath of Brussels, there has been so much discussion of a multiple-speed Europe, something we have always had within the Treaty, whether about the euro, Schengen or anything else.
It is vital that we succeed this time round, and I support the Irish presidency’s desire to clarify in advance whether we can achieve a positive outcome.
I know that most of the Member States are willing to accept Naples in terms of the consensus that the Italian presidency presented.
We will support the Irish presidency with all our might, not only as regards the methods by which it endeavours to achieve consensus, but also in terms of its goal of presenting, in March, a sketch of potential outcomes rather than merely a timetable.
Let me conclude with words of hope.
It is important that we should be able, on 10 and 13 June, to present the voters with a constitution that will show us the way to get through this twenty-first century in peaceful cooperation, as our continent is peacefully integrated.
Let me say, on behalf of the European People’s Party element in our shared group, that we see the constitution as the priority above all others.
A country may well be large, but that does not mean that it is on the right track.
That is why we say that a constitution is our chosen means of making democracy and parliamentarianism realities in the European Union.
We have one goal in common, and we want to reach it together.
and with determination, defending the Community of Europe, then, I am convinced, we will eventually be successful. &#160;&#160; A commendable new form of 'inter-faith' dialogue! &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, aware that the Irish Presidency is very sensitive to poetry, allow me to begin by expressing in positive terms what Commissioner Barnier has said in a negative way.
You are opening up the path and overcoming a very dramatic situation of deadlock, of stagnation, in Europe.
I believe that that is the crux of the issue at the moment, that is to say, we cannot make progress if there are a number of countries which are applying the brakes entirely.
Firstly, there will be a new Parliament and new Commission, and we cannot now deny them the right to propose the modifications they consider appropriate as well.
The issue is not whether the next Presidency does it better, but that we may find ourselves in the situation of having to start from the beginning again, with the new Parliament and the new Commission.
The Italian presidency, mainly under pressure from Prime Minister Blair, unfortunately retreated in several ways from the Convention's modest and balanced proposals to extend the scope of QMV and codecision with the Parliament.
If the Constitution is to be decided upon nationally, the large majority of our group think the will of the people should be measured by means of a referendum in all Member States.
This must be a unanimous decision under the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties between States.
If the Union that many countries joined after a referendum is suspended, a referendum will also have to be organised regarding accession to the new Union in as many Member States as possible.
Our group does not think this kind of militarisation of the EU is necessary.
The draft Constitution, however, is not satisfactory in this area.
Our group thus wants a social Europe but there have not been any satisfactory decisions taken by the Convention or the IGC in that area as far as we are concerned.
Member States cannot be forced to accept a constitution which their citizens cannot agree to.
Referenda are people’s democracy. &#160;&#160; – Three brief comments, Mr President: the aim of constitutional reform is to make the European Union more democratic and more effective, and not to calculate the balance of power between Member States.
The Intergovernmental Conference has, however, stalled on this issue and it is clear that the decision-making method which allows the veto is the real cancer of the European Union, it is that which is killing Community solidarity of any kind.
I am sure that there is a substantially large majority on that point in Parliament, but it seems to me that, in the words of the Presidency and in our debate, there is a fundamental ambiguity.
With regard to the five or six points on which agreement was more or less reached in Naples, I should like to hear what the Irish Presidency has to say.
Secondly, a quick point: frankly, it seems to me, once again, that the ideal way that we can help the Irish Presidency is to mobilise Members and public opinion around a project for democracy.
I therefore call on Members, on the various parliamentary groups, which are in the majority compared to my group, to insist on the idea of meetings, to insist on the idea of a major parliamentary initiative in the month of May, so as to stand by and assist the Irish Presidency, not leave it alone with its colleagues who, by themselves, will not make a better Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I warmly welcome the statement made by Minister Roche on behalf of the Irish presidency here this afternoon.
We will all be in a stronger position to make a judgment on the state of the negotiations to put in place a new European Union treaty when the Taoiseach gives a report of his bilateral discussions to the Council meeting of European Union leaders in March.
We are all looking forward to ten countries acceding to the Union on 1 May 2004.
In conclusion, I believe we all support the intensification of talks between the European Union governments so as to ensure that agreement can be reached concerning the provisions of the treaty.
In reality, the European institutions, the Commission and Parliament combined, are clinging to this supposed constitution as if it is their last hope, while their policies, particularly this year, have clearly failed, and while public opinion is generally disenchanted, if we believe the latest Euro-barometer, which I think is enlightening on this subject.
There will therefore be a constitution or something of that name.
In fact, it was crucial for national sovereignty, as were many other provisions of this draft.
The chair of the delegation from the French National Assembly to the European Union, which supports this text, has acknowledged that, with regard to the double majority, and I quote: ‘from a national point of view, nevertheless our country had as much interest in the status quo as Spain and Poland ‘.
I also hope, Mr President, that this debate will retain a minimum standard of honesty and dignity. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is not difficult to get up again when you have fallen down, so, as Commissioner Barnier was saying, we need to remobilise public opinion and our national politicians.
Imagine that in our respective national parliaments the four main parties in our countries tabled a joint resolution.
The number of players is going to change, the playing field is changing, therefore the rules have to change.
Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this resolution should be seen as something helpful, an encouragement, a stimulus.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is extremely moderate.
On the one hand, it proposes that you use the Convention draft as a basis – in this respect, we hope that you will not move too far away from it – and on the other hand, it proposes, significantly, the date of 1 May and not 9 May.
After that we will have a last sitting in Parliament from 3 to 6 May.
We should not be politically forced to be a constituent assembly to compensate for the irresponsibility of the governments. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the resolution proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs sets 1 May as the date for a positive conclusion to the work of the IGC.
The eighty-two points referred to by the former Italian President-in-Office of the Council, or the 45 amendments now being referred to, have been examined closely by us: they contain many points which are confusing and ambiguous and take many steps backwards.
There is no consensus on them – at least not in the European Parliament – and I ask you, Mr President, to give that serious consideration. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am acting in this Chamber as the spokesman for pensioners and old people throughout the whole of Europe, who, once again, have said to me: ‘We do not have time to wait for the European Constitution.
However, my Group is of the strong view that if, through no fault of its own, the Irish presidency does not begin to produce results within a reasonable period of time, it will not be possible for our Parliament to continue with ‘business as usual’.
It will become increasingly difficult for us and for many Member States in the Council to act as if this is an issue that can be set to one side for many months and years.
If this enlarged Europe is to work, irrespective of whether or not we receive the Nobel Prize, there must be clear rules and an orderly way of doing things.
I hope that you can use all your diplomatic sleight of hand also to convince your friends in the Council of the urgency of the matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President in Office of the Council, given your familiarity with the text of the Convention, I would like you to tell me if, in all honesty, you are aware of a more complete, more appropriate text serving as a basis for a successful conclusion than the text of the Draft Convention?
I ask this question as you, like me, are well acquainted with the Draft Convention.
I should like you to clarify these two points for us with frankness and honesty. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, most of my colleagues have talked about the wonderful Europe, or about the Europe that should become a little more wonderful.
We in this House advocate that this constitution be brought to completion, before 1 May if at all possible, but at any rate hand in hand with enlargement and prior to the European elections.
As a document it was far too centralising and federalist in content for our taste, far too long and both prescriptive and inflexible.
However, I hope that Ireland’s historic relations with the United States will serve to promote, if not a full, free trade EU-USA agreement – now that the WTO, post-Cancun, is fatally wounded – at least a common economic space for trade in goods and services, particularly financial services.
With enlargement, these six months will be great ones.
Members are aware, as I am, that the prize to be won in this debate, a constitutional treaty which is lucid and clear, even visionary, involving all the people of Europe, is a formidable prize.
A huge amount of work has already been done and the Irish presidency is fully aware of this.
Many Members have asked about the particular text and its starting point.
However, certain aspects of the Naples text, and above all some of the bilateral negotiations that took place between Naples and the European Council in Brussels, reveal retrograde steps in very sensitive areas, such as budgetary powers or the scope of application of the qualified majority.
There are also parallel initiatives, however, that have been taken following Naples that deserve our agreement.
Defence is a fundamental point and one of the major areas of development for the future of the EU.
The agreement reached in such a sensitive area as defence shows that we need to incorporate this agreement into the constitution as a whole and ensure an overall agreement on the constitution, including the defence dimension.
This is why we will continue to support the efforts of the Irish Presidency to secure an agreement on the European Constitution as quickly as possible and with as little delay as possible. &#160;&#160; That concludes the debate.
I have received two motions for resolution to wind up the debate.(1) The vote will be tomorrow. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council statement on the Members' Statute. &#160;&#160; Mr President, at its meeting on 26&#160;January 2004, the Council examined the draft decision on a Statute for Members of the European Parliament.
Qualified majority support is, as Members will be aware, required for all Articles of the draft Statute with the exception of Article 12 which, in the consolidated text, deals with taxation, and that, of course, requires unanimity.
In the interests of full transparency, I want to clarify that the basis on which the presidency invited Council to take a decision was that the proposed salary level for MEPs would be 50% of the salary of a Judge at the Court of Justice at the time of the relevant Parliament resolution – EUR 8&#160;670 a month.
Our approach has been clear all along.
The presidency undertook to report the outcome to Parliament.
In all of this, I would like to acknowledge the assistance and support the presidency received from this Parliament and in particular from you personally, President Cox.
First, I should like through you to thank the Irish presidency for the determined effort you have made in this regard, and for the integrity of purpose which you have brought to this task.
I express a personal disappointment in this regard and I believe that we in this House have acted in entirely good faith throughout our negotiations and our engagement with the Council in this regard.
We believed that the majority in this House last December had sought to reconcile the various points of view indicated in good faith by all of the actors at that stage.
The common aim underlying the various aspects of that reform has been to make our control procedures more effective and eliminate superfluous red tape, without undermining the substance of the competition rules.
I should like to say a few words on each of the three main areas with which competition policy is concerned: antitrust, concentrations, State aids.
In the antitrust sector, at the end of 2002, the Council adopted Regulation 1/2003 establishing a new framework for the application of Articles 81 and 82 of the EC Treaty.
This regulation opens up a new chapter in the application of Community competition rules; in fact it is the biggest antitrust reform since 1962 and will enter into force on 1 May 2004.
The following are the two main aspects of the new system: abolishing the notification system in respect of agreements between undertakings and establishing uniform conditions under which undertakings are to operate in the context of the common market.
The application of Community competition rules shall become the norm enabling undertakings to carry out projects in a much simpler manner than happens under the present system where agreements between undertakings are governed not just by Community provisions, but also by 25 national legal systems.
Simultaneously, under the new system undertakings are freed from the onerous burdens of notification and the Commission can concentrate all its resources on pursuing the most serious infringements of the competition rules.
The reform mobilises the full potential of national competition authorities and national courts to contribute to the application of European antitrust regulations.
A network of the 25 national authorities is currently being set up for the purpose of ensuring that tasks are more effectively and more efficiently allocated between the Commission and the national authorities; the Commission shall have the task – which is certainly demanding – of guaranteeing that the regulations are applied in a coherent manner.
I now come to the second part of our reform, which concerns the control of concentrations.
As regards the internal organisation of the Commission, in the area concerned with competition we have introduced a number of fairly radical innovations – which various Members have followed extremely closely and encouraged – including giving greater weight to economic analysis in the assessment of competition cases.
As a follow-up to the Commission’s Green Paper on services of general economic interest, in which this Parliament has shown such great interest, major priority will be given to clarifying the control mechanism governing the payment of compensation for costs associated with the supply of services of general economic interest.
I shall stop now in order not to overrun the time allocated to me, but not before saying a few very brief words, Mr President, on what we have done during this time, once again with Parliament’s support, as regards the international dimension of competition policy, both by further developing certain bilateral cooperation relations between antitrust authorities – primarily with those in the US – and by setting up with other partners the first multilateral body on competition, the International Competition Network.
I am, of course, available to listen to and, where necessary, comment on the speeches that follow. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to Commissioner Monti for this report, which, as he stressed, follows on from the work done by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Underlying all of them are our social market economy and stability.
What is clear is that competition policy is an important and indispensable instrument, enabling the European internal market to function and facilitating ever-deeper integration, so that the gains in terms of prosperity and efficiency resulting from a large and integrated market can be put to good use.
Competition policy is an instrument that has to be subject to social and civil policy objectives and must help achieve them.
The fact is, then, that we do not live and move in a free market economy, as the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs’ draft resolution puts it, but in an environmentally-responsible and social market economy.
It is astonishing how the Conservatives and Christian Democrats in this House have refused to talk in terms of the social market economy, and I can tell the Members on the other side of the House that they can correct their group’s embarrassing mistake in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in tomorrow’s plenary vote, by voting in favour of our amendments.
Although we are in favour of tight controls on mergers, their strength must lie in their taking into account their effects on society and on employment and in their giving workers and those who represent their interests a say in decision-making processes.
We have already had a whole series of debates on this.
We cannot have any more long-drawn-out discussions, and so I would like to know how work on this within the Commission is progressing. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I wish to do as the Commissioner did and note that his area is one of the most important for European consumers.
At the service station in medium-sized Muonio, five makes could be serviced on 1 October 2002.
Where Microsoft is concerned, we heard yesterday that the Commission is close to reaching a decision on Microsoft, Media Player and the abuse of a dominant position.
As emerged from the parliamentary question to Commissioner Monti in December 2002, we expect you to look seriously at this issue so that all new businesses are given a genuine opportunity to operate and so that certain standards do not become standards that reduce competition and the free flow of information.
Through the Resolution of 14 January, Parliament has just confirmed its desire to legislate in this field.
You wish to interpret Altmark yourselves through a communication, and we wish to do it through a legislative act.
However, our resolution rejects your use of Article&#160;86(3) to decide everything yourselves, claiming an urgency that has been denied for many years.
Thirdly, taking into account the disputes that there already are against your services and the bodies responsible for services of general interest, we have grounds to ask you to respect our resolution that services such as health, social housing and even social services should be excluded from the scope of application of competition rules and only come under the control of the Commission in the event of abuse of discretionary powers.
I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we wish the future codecision act to establish a right to own production, so that the threat of intrusion from the Commission will not always be brandished under cover of the argument of distortion of competition. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I will concentrate on the electricity market and competition policies in that market.
In reality, the market is becoming an oligopoly.
Germany and France and their companies EdF, Eon and RWE presently control 40% of the electricity production in Europe and 50% of all the grid and the balancing capacities.
These two countries have also been successful in blocking ownership unbundling, and thus the complete separation of interest between production and grid, which is necessary if you do not want these companies to control new entrants and you want more competition in the market.
These two countries have also been able to block access to decommissioning funds, and thus these three companies buy up the other companies.
The only country to be really successful in establishing a competitive market is the UK, because when the British opened the market they had a tough divestment policy.
Otherwise there is no hope at all for competition in the market, for lower prices, or for innovation &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, first of all I should like to make a general point.
In recent years, the debate in the European Parliament on the annual report has always been the most important – if not the sole – occasion for the democratic scrutiny of competition policy which, although having an increasing impact on the life of European companies and citizens, is one of the areas where Parliament’s role is merely consultative.
The Conference of Presidents did not want to remedy the situation which had been created and today we therefore find ourselves with half a debate, with a Parliament split down the middle on competition policy.
Coming now to the subject, Mr President, Commissioner, of this report which in reality brings to the plenary, in a manner of speaking, the report for which I was appointed rapporteur, adopted in committee, I want to make three points: first of all this report welcomes the commitment with which Commissioner Monti and the Commission have implemented a major programme of legislative and organisational reforms in the Directorate General for Competition.
We have national champions in certain sectors – not just energy, but also telecommunications – which are often also national champions under public ownership, in which the State finds itself playing the dual role of controller and direct acting manager of companies.
In such situations, in my opinion, irrespective of the difficulties involved – we are confronted with the major countries of the European Union, extremely large and powerful companies in Germany, France and also in Italy – the Commission must keep up its guard and, if possible, attempt to obtain more positive results than those achieved so far.
Finally, a more general point about competition policy, also in relation to the amendments tabled to the resolution that we are due to vote on tomorrow.
I believe Commissioner Monti’s policy has a sole, crucial, extremely important objective: to guarantee fair competition, to guarantee competition in open markets for all European companies.
It would be an extremely serious mistake and an illusion to think that the choices made by Commissioner Monti must have a direct impact on specific social or employment aims.
I share his objections to the highly unusual procedure that has been followed here for holding in this House a debate on competition policy.
The Commission has undertaken a substantial revision of competition policy, but unfortunately not all its changes are for the better.
I hope that the Commission will yet consider reversing this decision.
The Commission’s persistence in shifting from the market dominance test to the ‘substantial lessening of competition’ (SLC) test, too, against Parliament’s advice, is most regrettable.
The market also needs clear competition legislation and a reduction in administrative burdens.
Prior impact assessment of new legislation is a very important means to this end.
Of course, that was surely not the intention, and this is why prior impact assessments are potentially very important.
Finally, Mr&#160;President, I can tell you that I do not endorse the amendments tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
The modifications that they propose relate to policy areas that are not covered by the Commission’s competition policy.
These proposals would result in confusion and legal uncertainty. &#160;&#160; Mr President, according to the renowned French economist Jean-Paul Fitoussi, whose astuteness and common sense we all admire, the EU’s economic government is run by just three people: the secretary of State in charge of fiscal surveillance, the minister responsible for monetary policy and the minister charged with coordinating and boosting support for competition policy.
It must consequently strengthen and consolidate a market economy that does not abandon its social dimension and always responds to the needs of the consumer.
Competition policy will only be successful, however, if the Commission is able to create equitable conditions, whereby rules can be applied across all Member States.
Progress has been made in this respect during the past year, but this is an area of competence that requires constant work, especially given the difficult economic situation, which makes it opportune for Member States to use state mechanisms and aid in order to safeguard companies and their own citizens’ jobs.
The report tabled by Commissioner Monti is to be welcomed and represents hope for an improvement in competition policy within the EU.
Parliament’s motion for a resolution, subject to the approval of some amendments that have been tabled, will also constitute an extremely important guiding policy document and provide a sound basis of support for the Commission itself. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are at the end of the mandate of the Commission and Parliament and therefore, on this occasion, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Monti on the excellent work he has done throughout the mandate of this Commission.
Nevertheless, there are certain aspects which worry us and which other Members have pointed out.
The pressure from economic and political interests to sidestep market rules is logical, and we must always balance, for the benefit of citizens and consumers, the free exercise of market mechanisms in order to ensure an efficient market with a correct allocation of resources.
The second point that I would obviously like to point out is the Liberal Group’s traditional position that there should be a section in the Court of Justice to deal with these issues.
The third and final point would be to ensure, both in the Commission and in the other institutions of the European Union, that the operation of the courts responsible for competition, at all levels within the Union, is correct.
If it is rigorous in certain areas but not in others, we are obviously giving comparative assistance which distorts the situation of the markets, and even more so, as has been pointed out, in view of the enlargement which will take place in a few months’ time.
Having made these observations, which I would like to leave as suggestions for application in the future, I would like to repeat that we in the Liberal Group are in agreement with the positions expressed by the rapporteur, Mr Della Vedova, and we congratulate Commissioner Monti on his wonderful work. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, while you are congratulating yourself on your competition policy, the workers of Aventis and Sanofi are filled with fear and awaiting redundancies and closures.
Of course, imperfections remain in the single market.
With regard to services of general economic interest, we have obviously very closely followed the Herzog report and the European Parliament resolution of 14 January on the Commission Green Paper on services of general interest.
With regard to follow up on the Green Paper, there still needs to be a debate within the Commission on the nature of the proposal to be put forward.
With regard to the funding of services of general economic interest, I would like to respond quickly to Parliament’s demand that legal security for enterprises be increased.
Soon, following on from the Altmark judgment, I will propose a package to the Commission based mainly on three texts: firstly, a communication from the Commission specifying under what conditions public service compensation could constitute State aid; secondly, a Commission decision applying to small public services and hospitals, to obviate an obligation of notification under certain circumstances; and thirdly, a Community framework for State aid in the form of public service compensation, more for large public services.
In the meantime, we are closely monitoring compliance with the new block exemption regulation by all agents in this complex market.
What I can say in this context is that we are indeed nearing an end to this case.
In November 2003 the Commission listened to Microsoft and interested third parties at a hearing in Brussels.
That is the case in Regulation 1/2003 as it deals with Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty.
Mrs Bordes, sometimes, human catastrophes may happen.
I have received one motion for resolution to wind up the debate.(1) The vote will be tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Catalonia and the Kingdom of Spain have been experiencing a real political storm in the last few days.
In my view, there is no doubt about the verdict, which is the only one that counts, and I condemn the fact that the President of our institution refused to meet or deferred his meeting with the President of the Catalonian Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to raise the issue of various moves in some Member States, notably France, to ban the wearing of so-called overt religious symbols.
Before France or other Member States find themselves condemned before the Strasbourg or Luxembourg courts they need to remember that a European model of integration rests on respect for differences and freedom to choose, not on illiberal imposition of uniformity. &#160;&#160; – I wish to raise a matter which, unfortunately, has been pending since August 2003.
What I am requesting is that the President of the European Parliament intervene again, perhaps calling on the ambassador to Pakistan or even asking Commissioner Patten to tell us what demarches have been taken by the European Union.
air navigation services in the Single European Sky (the service provision regulation) (PE-CONS 3691/2003 – C5-0604/2003 – 2001/0235(COD)) 2.
the organisation and use of airspace in the Single European Sky (airspace regulation) (PE-CONS 3692/2003 – C5-0605/2003 – 2001/0236(COD)) 3.
The first objective that this regulation has certainly achieved is that of safety.
So, in this sense our regulation makes a fundamental contribution.
Currently in Europe there are 41 different air traffic control centres, each often having its own rules, with its own flight paths, its own corridors, its own flight quotas.
From Rome to Brussels one passes through the hands of seven different flight control centres, and handovers are not always smooth: consider what happened over Lake Constance a few years ago when as a result of a misunderstanding between two flight control centres during a handover an aeroplane crashed to the ground.
Another priority the regulation would appear to have established concerns costs and timetables.
The growth of European traffic will take us from seven million flights in 1997 to twelve million flights by 2010, and today one in five flights experiences more than 20 minutes delay.
It is clear that efficiency in terms of timetables and costs makes our companies competitive in the market: the US has more or less the same geographical area as Europe, but they have double the number of aeroplanes in the air and much shorter delays.
In the compromise finally reached it was decided that explicit reference should be made to the statement of the Member States on military matters.
In that statement the Member States acknowledge that air space can be used in a safe and efficient manner only if there is close cooperation between civil and military authorities.
We consider it a milestone in the process of European integration: for the first time the military top brass of all fifteen European countries understand that the European skies are not anyone’s property and that a balance must be struck – at the highest possible level in terms of quality – between the defence requirements of all Member States and the safety requirements that are the main concern of the customers, that is to say European citizens.
The second important point is the role played by Eurocontrol.
The Council and the Commission initially had very great ambitions, particularly after 11&#160;September, but these gradually evaporated.
The main points that we agreed with the Council in conciliation were on the subject of implementation, of course.
We are also pleased that the Member States have committed themselves to cooperating on the concept of the flexible use of airspace across national borders: that will prevent many delays.
Finally, there is the point on which conciliation nearly foundered: cross-border airspace blocks.
It is also essential in view of the current increase in air traffic of more than 2% per&#160;annum.
I should also like to take this opportunity to point out how important the role of the European Parliament has been, because I think that, together with the Council, we have achieved a very good proposal. &#160;&#160; .
The work we have been doing has been hard and complicated, and we have therefore been working for some years.
In relation to this initiative, for the first time, dressed in uniform, military aviation chiefs from all the Member States of the Union, together with civilian chiefs, met on the premises of the European institutions – and specifically the Commission’s premises – in order to discuss certain aspects which have been pointed out by the rapporteurs, such as the flexible civilian and military use of European airspace.
We must remember that all the Member States support this initiative and they demonstrated this with the adoption of the latest decisions within the Council, and I hope that in today’s vote this will also be the case.
I believe that the text we have finally agreed on is a balanced text, a balanced text which will certainly evolve in the future, but we must be aware that we are carrying out a genuine revolution and an extremely important step forward in the construction of Europe in a real sense.
And that is what we are doing today in order to create an airspace which can be managed more efficiently but, above all, more safely, in a manner which respects the environment, at the service of the citizens, and which represents, I would insist, a step forward which, in certain respects, is almost revolutionary.
On the ground, we have no borders any more; I can get in the car and drive from Berlin to Paris or from Paris to Rome without undergoing checks.
I put this in such blunt terms simply because I have for a long time been considering whether I can at all vote in favour of the conciliation procedure.
The Council has spent a long time blocking these central points.
Nor, moreover, would there have been the clear instruction to the Member States – who, let us recall, have had decades in which to create functional airspace blocks – combined with the declaration, which I saw as crucial, that if nothing changes in the next five years, we must and will make improvements, in which event we cannot allow the Member States to retain competence in this matter.
We need it – whether we get it with the Member States or despite them. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me start with warm thanks to the rapporteur for the good work he has done and for his good cooperation.
It has to be said that the Council of Ministers gave us the distinct impression that the national point of view continued to predominate – and that impression remains.
Particularly where military-civilian cooperation is concerned, Parliament had to be very careful of national sensitivities and was in fact obliged to abandon the concept of flexible use of airspace.
We have in any case made progress in that the Member States have, for the first time, acknowledged that the only way to ensure the safe and efficient use of airspace is for the military and civilian users of it to cooperate, irrespective of how this is to be arranged in future.
Turning to the integration of lower airspace that is being contemplated and – if I may go one step further – the creation of a single trans-European airspace, I hope that the topic of flexible airspace use and, of course, of functional airspace blocks can again ... &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the proposed regulations being put to the vote today are the result of an agreement made in conciliation following months of debate and work.
On behalf of my group, I abstained on this agreement, but I support the steps forward made from the initial draft.
Firstly, after various air disasters, the issue of safety remains the priority for any approach in this field.
In my view, the agreement reached now has a much more realistic approach.
Cooperation between civilian and military air traffic will be promoted, insofar as it is compatible with the sovereignty of the Member States, even though I would have hoped for a more dynamic approach in this area.
The airspace blocks will be based on operational or functional requirements, irrespective of national borders, in consultation with Eurocontrol.
Chaired by the representative of the Commission, this committee will be made up of two representatives of each Member State and a representative of Eurocontrol.
The agreement allows the Member States the freedom to entrust air monitoring to a public service or a private company.
I still regret the fact that Parliament did not wish to retain the amendment that I had tabled on behalf of my group aimed at doubling monitoring mechanisms in order to ensure that operations continue in complete security in the event of a fault.
This is one of the conditions necessary in order for other improvements to be made and also for the measures that will be taken in Europe to be effective.
We often parade the principle of subsidiarity, of which I am a great supporter, but that subsidiarity must also apply from the bottom up.
In my opinion, the degree of safety must not be subordinate to our great predilection for diversity.
You know that, up to the last minute, there was a problem as regards cooperation between military and civil authorities, on the one hand, and there was a problem as regards the way in which single operating sections or blocks are defined at international level.
I therefore believe that the creation of the single sky bodes well for the future.
I am pleased about all that and I think this text is at last integrated and that this evening we have good reason to be pleased with the result we have achieved. &#160;&#160; Mr President, you claim to be achieving what you call the single European sky, but even the small amount of progress made to overcome the divisions and rivalries between states, which are particularly absurd in the field of aviation, are more than offset by the increased competition between private airlines, and even air traffic control is handed over to the race for private profit.
At this very moment, massive redundancies have been announced or are under way at Alitalia, at KLM, which is controlled by Air France, and in other large airlines.
To continue with this policy after the Lake Constance disaster 18 months ago, which was a direct consequence of the privatisation of air traffic control in Switzerland, is criminal.
We will vote for the amendments aimed at improving safety, but we are against every aspect of a policy that is based on competition, whether or not regulated at European level, because it will create an enormous mess and can only end in disaster. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I too would like to join in the expressions of gratitude to you, Madam Vice-President, for the idea for the Single Sky was yours.
The country that always occurs to my mind is one whose air navigation services are staffed by State officials, who do not necessarily make for better and more effective use of airspace.
Following this legislative act, I believe, we will need – perhaps in two or three years’ time – a new initiative to introduce competition among air navigation services, where, as much as anywhere else, competition is required if performance is to be improved. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would also like to begin by thanking our rapporteursand shadow rapporteursfor their work on this very detailed and complex report, which, of course, applies to upper air space.
In conclusion, with this regulation we should improve safety, efficiency and the economics of air traffic management, which, as air traffic across Europe continues to grow, is good news for the industry, for business and for the consumer. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner de&#160;Palacio, I would like to use these two minutes to praise the work of the rapporteurs, who have been so persistent and clear on a complex issue that is full of nuances, but who have never lost sight of, or abandoned, the main objective; to also praise every one of us, members of the committee, who have believed in their work and supported it; and to praise the Commission, which has worked alongside us and also allowed us all to achieve a result with which I can say that I am satisfied.
I believe that the citizens will be our main allies when, on this issue too, we seek to progress and achieve the results which today are not within our reach but which we will certainly be able to achieve in the years to come. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner de Palacio, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to express my full and unconditional satisfaction with the result that has come out of the Conciliation Committee.
The result is, therefore, a result that is due to everyone, but I too would like to express my satisfaction that you, Commissioner de Palacio, focused on this objective with great tenacity, together with the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur and also ourselves as members of the committee.
The result is satisfactory.
The new role of Eurocontrol and military and civil cooperation have been highlighted, but I would also like to stress the interoperability of the European air traffic control network and the issue, no less important&#160;–&#160;which you, Commissioner de Palacio, emphasised&#160;–&#160;of the certification of service providers.
Through this initiative, we are truly creating a European airspace, we are creating a European sky, furthermore combining guarantees for States.
It cannot be done in a contradictory manner, the Commission must provide this European thinking and this European component which is perhaps not always present in the national view, but it is obvious that without the Member States we cannot carry out this kind of action.
And I believe we have contributed something to these improvements because Eurocontrol is aware of the process and the impetus that exists and, in this regard, I am extremely pleased that we have been able to finally achieve full Community participation in Eurocontrol, which has been extremely important, as well as the organisation of its cooperation in the whole Single Sky process.
I believe that what we have achieved today is very important, and that it is this very mixture of a vision of creating a European Single Sky and of realism, which has guided our action, both in Parliament and in the Commission, and also – I would like to point out – in the Council, which has allowed us to take pleasure today in a positive result, which is an extremely important step, which we all know will be followed by further steps, but which is the first step in this new frontier of the Single European Sky. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, both for your statement and your kind words.
The debate on this matter, on which we all worked very hard but with very positive intuition, is closed.
The cost was said to be ruinous, although it is about the same as building a little more than 100 km of high-speed railway line.
Our wisdom finally carried the day and, concerned to implement the European Union’s strategy for employment, economic reform, research, and social cohesion decided by the Lisbon European Council in March 2002, we adopted Galileo.
I am therefore taking account here of two Commission communications.
The first is concerned with the state of progress following the Council decision of 26 March 2002, which saw the informal adoption of the regulation creating the joint undertaking on 21 May 2002, and the second the integration of EGNOS into Galileo.
And countries are joining us, like China, with whom a promising agreement, especially in the field of research, was initialled in Beijing on 18 September 2003.
Unlike GPS and Glonass, it must remain a purely civilian project.
The services it will provide are very important, especially in the environmental field.
I would like to stress Galileo’s fundamental contribution as a spearhead for our European space policy, integrating more closely the roles of the Union and the ESA.
So far as EGNOS is concerned, I propose that it be integrated into Galileo, through the good offices of the joint undertaking, because this satellite radio navigation system can only be based on our global system.
Galileo is a very important achievement of our legislature.
Galileo is a fine European Union project.
Our Parliament can be proud to have been a driving force in the dynamic that our Assembly has shown and which will help to make the European Union more independent; it is a step towards a decision full of political significance and one very much called for by our draft Constitution. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, I would like once again to thank the European Parliament for its support for the Commission in relation to moving ahead with the Galileo project.
I would like to point out that at the moment, as you well know, the Galileo joint undertaking is fully operational and has been since the summer of 2003.
Its two main tasks are, on the one hand, to select the future Galileo concessionaire we have four offers on the table which were received in December 2003 following the publication of an invitation to tender for concession last year and these four offers demonstrate the real interest of four consortiums in taking charge of this project and, therefore, clear interest in the private sector in the Galileo project.
The second element we are working on is the monitoring of the work carried out by the European Space Agency on validation in orbit.
A first experimental satellite will be launched before the end of 2005 and a second satellite will be ready to launch during the first half of 2006, because we must begin to transmit test signals, in order to guarantee that we maintain the signals which were granted us originally by the corresponding international body.
We have in fact signed an agreement with China, the negotiation with India is at a very advanced stage, Brazil also wants to participate in the Galileo project, not to mention cooperation with Russia and, of course, the United States.
With the United States, we have resolved practically all the compatibility problems with the GPS system by means of cooperation between systems which allows us to enhance and improve the signal and the corresponding services.
I would therefore like to thank the honourable Member for his report, and Parliament for the very clear support it has given this Commission initiative throughout all this time, since we have had to fight hard and at times overcome complex difficulties, but I would like to say that it is moving in the right direction.
As I said a moment ago, with regard to these three projects: ‘Single Sky’ is under way, Galileo is well and truly launched, and ‘maritime safety’, which we has gone from nothing to a whole package which protects and supports us, not just in the European Union but at international level.
Parliament has been constant in its support for the Commission, the Council has played its part, and now is the time to decide on the tenders.
This system is important to people in trouble at sea, as such information is highly detailed and help can arrive at very short notice.
This creates unemployment in the Union and reduces our wealth and our capacity to achieve the Lisbon objectives.
In the face of this unstoppable dynamic caused by globalisation, our reaction must not be to try to compete in order to bring our costs into line with those offered by less developed countries, on the basis of sacrifices on the part of our workforce or of our environmental requirements.
Together with the European Space Agency, the EGNOS programme, and hopefully also ITER, it creates a launch pad so that Europe can be in the leading group in terms of the most important challenges humanity is going to face during this twenty-first century, that is to say, taking advantage of our atmosphere and outer space in a manner which is sustainable and respectful of nature.
It is worth noting that, unlike competing global positioning systems – notably American ones – our Galileo project has been used exclusively for civilian purposes.
Galileo can play a key role in helping the European Union achieve the competitiveness goals set in Lisbon, goals which form a key plank of the Irish presidency's programme.
This is why I believe that the report should have expressed greater concern on this issue.
We welcome the conclusion of negotiations with China regarding its participation in the Galileo system.
In fact, the risks at military level are not theoretical risks, but those indicated by the European Commission as useful factors, from a European point of view, for its defence.
I would like to quote from a document&#160;–&#160;a Commission position paper&#160;–&#160;of 31 December 2001 which stated that: ‘if the Galileo Programme is abandoned, we will in the next twenty or thirty years lose our autonomy in defence’;and again, on 12&#160;March 2002: ‘although designed for civilian applications Galileo will also give the EU a military capability’, and the Directorate General indicated the usefulness of a separate Galileo signal to support the military aspect.
If adequate countermeasures are not taken, there is a genuine risk of very real technological repercussions over the next few years for the army of a country that is antidemocratic, illiberal and a dictatorship and that knows how to turn secret services and specifically civil espionage to military use, something that our own intelligence organisations are, in any case, also doing. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, when we have something to say, we prefer to do so without delay.
For that reason, I would really have liked us to have discussed the state of play on Galileo some time ago, and would also have liked to see more regular follow-up.
We cannot carry on being so slow in the way we handle current information, for I fear that any delay in Galileo’s development will make for serious problems if it is to be launched, as planned, in 2008.
The fact that the Council has now mandated the Commission to start negotiating with Israel and India in February shows that we are making good progress by way of bilateral agreements, but it is also of great importance, as has been described in relation to the USA, that we should find a shared basis for cooperation.
I still do not understand in what way and how the private sector will be able to involve itself in the infrastructure competitively with a GPS that will provide its services free of charge.
From this point of view it will therefore either ask for guaranteed resources or it will seek something in return.
Finally, although I have mainly mentioned here the economic potential for supporting the Lisbon strategy, I would also like to emphasise the massive benefits Galileo will have for search and rescue services and transport. &#160;&#160; .
I would therefore like to insist that if this is one of the great achievements of this legislature, it is because of what it means in terms of enhancing the role of the European Union at international level, our autonomy and our very sovereignty, our future capacities, without leaving any field of technological development out of our ambitions.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely concerned about the issue of human rights in China, and not only China, since there are unfortunately problems in other countries which are closer than China.
All there is is a concession for its management by a private company.
Because, as you are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, there are three levels, one of which is open, free and free-of-charge for any citizen, like GPS, but unlike GPS it is not subject to ups and downs since it is a civilian project rather than a military one.
Secondly, there is a free entry level but by means of payment, and with that free entry by means of payment there will not only be better definition and greater precision in terms of the signal received, but also a quality certificate, in other words, it will be known at all times whether the greatest possible precision is really being provided, or if, on the other hand, there is any difficulty which is reducing it.
The conciliation concerning public procurement, which we are now to debate, is an expression of this.
The directive on public procurement stipulates full competition between tenderers.
From Parliament’s point of view, the conciliation was a success.
Our aim was to increase competitiveness, to promote equal treatment and to improve our tools for combating organised crime and corruption.
The directive prevents social and environmental aspects being taken account of in an arbitrary or unbalanced way.
We obtained a balance with the aid of the EC Court of Justice’s jurisdiction, whose case law was implemented, a factor that provides legal certainty in this area.
Without all these combined efforts, it would have been impossible to take this step.
The outcome, therefore, was agreement, in spite of quite difficult political antagonisms at the start.
A recent draft report on the functioning of public procurement markets in the EU shows that the procurement directives have contributed to increased transparency in public procurement markets.
If promptly adopted and effectively implemented by Member States, these measures will contribute to further improve the performance of our public procurement markets.
In this respect, the legislative package will – thanks to the extensive work of the rapporteur – recognise this role and take the particular, qualitative aspects of such services into better account.
For all these reasons, I appeal to the Members of this House to support the results of this conciliation process and finally to adopt this important piece of legislation.
Once again, I should like to thank all Members who have contributed to the excellent outcome of the various debates held on this important matter. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the importance of this directive has already been emphasised by those who have spoken before me, but in recent years it has been frequently highlighted and reflected upon specifically in order to achieve a result like the one that we have obtained.
I strongly welcome what Commissioner Bolkestein said as regards quality.
I tried many times, as rapporteur, to stress the issue of quality above all.
Having, as rapporteur, spent four years on this issue, together with many other Members, I would conclude by impartially thanking all those responsible for such an important result for the European Union: the chairman of the Conciliation Committee, to which I dedicated a considerable amount of my time, for having conducted the final stage in the committee extremely proficiently; and the Commission, represented by Commissioner Bolkestein.
I therefore thank everyone; I thank you, Mr&#160;President, and, once again, all the Members for the opportunity given to me. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I too would like to start by thanking most warmly everyone involved in the work that we are now bringing to a conclusion – as the rapporteur mentioned, we spent four years working together on it, and it was, for me, one of the best experiences I have had in the European Parliament, involving getting to grips with a great deal of highly complex material.
Let me thank the Commission, and also the Commissioner, who again reminded us today how very important this legislative project is in economic terms.
Opinions may differ about the Italian Presidency’s record, and different people in this House will assess it in different ways, but it can certainly chalk up as one of its credits the successful completion of this conciliation procedure, the result of which I will of course, tomorrow, be advising my group to adopt.
The Internet is an important source of information for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, and it is intended that it should facilitate more cross-border transactions.
I see this as very important, particularly in terms of legal certainty, and perhaps this legislative package expresses to some degree the value we attach to the case-law of the ECJ in this area.
In conclusion, it only remains to me to appeal to the Member States to transpose this directive without delay and to do so in line with the new conception of it in order to create a real internal market for public-sector contracts, for more competition, and more transparency, but also for advances in the fields of environmental and social policy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is very satisfied with the outcome of this conciliation.
Our objective is to increase the number of cross-border tenders.
Finally, I want to say that, following our last conciliation meeting, the Finnish press said that the case of Concordia Bus Finland, brought before the EC Court of Justice and relating to bus traffic in Helsinki, had led to a sound directive on public procurement.
I want to thank all the drivers who contributed to this end result, and I note that we have steered the matter into a safe harbour.
My special thanks are due both to the Commissioner and his colleagues, who said just the right words at the right time, and to the Conciliation Committee’s secretariat for its quite excellent work.
I hope it will help our administrations get greater value for money. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we have worked for a long time on these important procurement directives, and it is now time for a final debate and a vote on the outcome of the conciliation.
Viewed in a Green perspective, the Commission’s original proposal was completely unacceptable when it came to environmental and social criteria in the case of public procurement.
I was, however, very optimistic about the procurement directives once a majority of the European Parliament, at both first and second readings, had strongly supported the proposal to give the procuring parties greater freedom and legal entitlement to take account of, and incorporate, environmental and social criteria in public procurement.
Unfortunately, I saw from the very beginning that the Commission did not really want to acknowledge the fact that Articles 2 and 6 of the Treaty, together with the Sixth Environmental Action Programme and other policy documents, clearly state that environmental and social considerations must be incorporated into all EU policy and that public procurement must be used to achieve the objective of sustainable development.
The outcome of the conciliation is quite clearly better than the Commission’s original proposal and the old rules, but I think that we have unfortunately missed a unique opportunity to be as progressive as the pledges and the talk of sustainable development would seem to require.
I think that the Council has demonstrated a stronger will and greater flexibility, for example through raising the threshold value.
I nonetheless believe that, during the conciliation, there was a failure to resolve the important issue arising from the fact that, with a value of 14% of GDP, public procurement really could make a difference to the EU’s environmental policy and promote ‘green’ procurement.
I think we have missed a brilliant opportunity to promote sustainable development and an improved quality of life for the present, and future, generations.
I believe that many members of the Greens/ALE Group will in any case vote in favour of the proposal.
One of the areas we worked on in this conciliation was that of measures that will encourage Member States to get these directives to work properly.
I make no apologies for repeating what I said in my speech at first reading: we know that there are far too many contracts in all areas of public procurement that are not being properly put onto the Official Journal system.
In terms of social and economic criteria this must be done in an open and non-discriminatory way as part of the published tender.
Let me also say that I am very satisfied with the outcome that we have reached, although – like everyone else – we would obviously have liked to achieve more.
It is very positive, in my view, that we have managed to establish these criteria – as regards sustainability, environmental and social award criteria, and, for example, the special provisions for people with disabilities – and ultimately managed to secure the approval of the Commission and the Council.
We have talked tonight about the huge market involved in the whole area of public procurement.
This Parliament has added a social dimension to economic legislation.
We take the view, however, that a number of substantial improvements have been achieved in the conciliation process, bringing the compromise more into line with our ideas, so that we can now vote for the outcome at third reading.
In my view, these improvements lie primarily in the fact that this compromise proposal has a far more market-oriented focus than was the case even with the common position.
The progress on liberalising public procurement through the internal market is maintained and, indeed, built on.
Nonetheless, I think it is also a step towards reaching the objectives of the Lisbon strategy, and I am pleased that the Commission in particular has made such a substantial contribution, which we see lacking in the context of some other legislative proposals.
If we want everyone to have job opportunities and to be able to support themselves, we must of course favour companies that create jobs for people with disabilities.
I think that the result we have presented in our decision is something we can defend and, in actual fact, be proud of.
I wish to thank everyone who has contributed to this outcome. &#160;&#160; .
Parliament wants to encourage pilot projects, and its second reading amendment has been accepted almost in its entirety.
The third point relates to the report.
The Council has accepted Parliament’s amendment concerning the scope of the Commission’s report on the implementation of the Directive almost in its entirety.
The fourth point concerns voluntary agreements.
The possibility of reducing the transposition of certain provisions by means of agreements between the competent authorities and the economic sectors concerned has been fully accepted by the Council.
Parliament was prepared to grant a postponement from 2008 to 2010, the Council preferred 2012, and we agreed on 2011.
The two more difficult points concerned the amendment regarding the new Member States, and the recent judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Communities.
Firstly, regarding the new Member States, the issue was who should establish the deadlines for these countries.
Parliament wanted the Commission to present a proposal on which Parliament and the Council would then take a decision.
The Council preferred to deal with this issue by means of a declaration on bilateral agreements with each acceding country on the basis of Article&#160;57 of the Accession Treaty.
Parliament strongly defended its second reading position.
A particularly difficult problem concerned the implications of recent judgments of the Court of Justice for the Directive’s recovery targets.
Indeed, the implications of the judgments had not been addressed in either the common position or in second reading amendments by Parliament.
This agreement on the Directive on packaging and packaging waste points the way towards a new scheme in legislation.
Parliament wanted to see greater emphasis on the environmental impact of the legislation and a flexible way of working.
In an enlarged, more diverse Union, it will no longer be possible for all 25 Member States to set the same targets for recycling and recovery.
Our debates on eco-efficiency at first reading and on the economic cost at second reading lead us almost inescapably to the conclusion that countries’ optimum recycling percentages can differ substantially, and ultimately we must go down that path, too.
A packaging environment indicator has the potential to stimulate the use of more sustainable packaging.
By way of conclusion, I should like to express my warm thanks to all the groups for their cooperation, and to say a word of thanks to the excellent conciliation team under the extremely capable leadership of Vice-President Imbeni. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, following a rather long and difficult negotiation, in the end we are going to have a Directive which, as well as being ambitious, is realistic and, above all, capable of being applied, because the dates and quantitative objectives set in it are well-balanced.
I would also like to make a particular appeal to consumers, who make up a sector which is essential to the system, to cooperate by taking all packaging to green points.
Portugal, Greece, Ireland and the new Member States are going to have longer time limits for complying with this directive.
I am aware that some of these countries are already making huge efforts and I am sure that they will achieve the objectives set.
Finally, I trust that the problems stemming from the imprecise definition, following the judgment, of what is considered recovery will be urgently resolved for the good of everybody. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it has been a long hard road on this directive.
We have recognised that this directive will enter into force in a period when we are enlarging the Union and a whole series of standards and objectives that we previously had in the group of 15 will now have to be extended to 25 Member States.
I am afraid we have always been slow, we have always been behind the average and we are going to have to do an awful lot of very hard work in terms of building infrastructure and putting a whole range of measures in place to ensure that we achieve the objectives that we have set down in this legislation.
I commend this package to the House. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, packaging waste constitutes a considerable environmental problem.
It is good that targets are being set for waste recycling, but I should like to have seen some more demanding targets.
Not even more demanding targets for the recycling of environmentally hazardous packaging are sufficient, however.
As an island nation, Ireland imports 80% of its packaging material and has a very small indigenous recycling possibility; we have a scattered population.
The extra time we have now been given will hopefully allow us not to look for special treatment after 2011, and that has to be our ambition as a country.
Again my thanks go to the rapporteur and to all colleagues for their particular understanding.
I welcome what is before us here this evening. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the emphasis in this directive on the need to reduce discarded packaging and the increase in the targets for the recycling of packaging waste.
In Ireland we have quite recently introduced recycling and there has been a very positive response from the general public.
Ireland is a net importer and 75% to 80% of our packaging is imported.
We need realistic targets as regards the new directives, but the government feels that it can fully implement this directive by 2011.
The Commission thinks that the Parliament needs to be fully involved in this important matter, therefore this proposal will be based on codecision.
The ongoing debate on the thematic strategy on waste prevention and recycling will be an important input to such a view.
The debate is closed.
I hope you will study this report carefully.
In the meantime, the rapporteur and the committee have carried out detailed work and are now proposing that discharge be granted to the Committee of the Regions for 2001.
Payment procedures must be in line with the financial regulations.
There must be respect for the institutional role of the Internal Auditor.
The President of the Committee of the Regions has announced the implementation of an action plan to improve administration and management, and this includes rules on dealing with whistleblowers.
The results of these investigations were shocking.
The OLAF report painted a quite different picture.
For these reasons the COR and its President deserve the benefit of the doubt.
An investigation that can be expressed in a couple of sentences is not what I would call ‘thorough’; it was rather too superficial an investigation for my taste.
I have greater respect for the report by OLAF, which has examined the matter in greater detail.
However, my group will not be voting in favour of granting discharge to the Committee of the Regions.
We think that we are justified in this course of action in a year in which so much has been amiss. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, just like the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, we consider the rapporteur to have done an excellent job in his report.
We think there is too much that has not been cleared up and that a still stronger desire should be shown to devise better procedures for the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Committee on Budgetary Control on its determination to shed every possible light on the management of the Committee of the Regions.
We have gone a long way since February 2003.
The first plan was to grant it discharge for satisfactory management, but the reports from the Court of Auditors and OLAF have confirmed the need for the report.
In that, their adoption is essentially a technicality and I hope that a large number of Members will be able to support them.
On the other hand, it seems to me premature to grant discharge.
Indeed, I believe it showed that occasionally, there are small institutions within the European Union – so-called small institutions, although our taxpayers would probably take a different view – which might have a budget of EUR 30 million, where the members turn up once every few months and perhaps deliver an important speech before a plenary, and where otherwise, there is a great temptation to indulge in petty empire-building within the European Community.
I am most grateful to the President and his staff at the Committee of the Regions for having drawn the right conclusions from our comments, but I think it will be a lesson for us in other cases as well.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, thanks to the dedicated hard work of the Committee on Budgetary Control, and that of various individuals in the European institutions, it has finally been possible to put a stop to serious wrongdoing in the European statistics body, Eurostat.
The audit carried out by the Commission’s internal audit service, and by Eurostat’s audit department, deserves our praise and was crucial in obtaining this result.
It is clear that in most contracts awarded by Eurostat to third parties, other Commission departments or even interinstitutional bodies were also involved.
There is particular consternation that, unlike Eurostat, nothing appears to have changed in the departments that monitor external help and that are responsible for authorising spending in some of the most contentious areas.
The accounting system must be modernised and assurances must be given that the system is indeed capable of addressing the most glaring problems in managing and monitoring external contracts and Community money administered by third parties.
A further area in which progress appears to have been either very slow or non-existent is that of the common agricultural policy.
The framework drawn up by the excellent special reports by the Court of Auditors regarding export refunds is a cause for concern.
It is unacceptable that, on key points, the 2003 report does no more than repeat what was said in 1990 because absolutely nothing has changed in 13 years.
The Community budget demands transparency, yet the Commission still refuses to make public the list of payments made to commercial undertakings, particularly in this area of export refunds and surplus disposal mechanisms.
In a recent opinion poll, food product adulteration came top of the list of concerns among European citizens, both in the Europe of the 15 and the Europe of the 25.
The Commission is preparing to propose an increase in the sums earmarked for research and development, an area which, as I have said, has been synonymous with red tape and inefficiency.
In the report, the rapporteur discusses all the key issues dealt with in the Commission's follow-up report – Eurostat in particular – and the necessary conclusions to be drawn from them.
It was in 2001 that the Commission embarked on the implementation of the administrative reform measures.
At the same time – that is, in two weeks’ time – we will also present proposals for the revision of the OLAF Regulation, which we have discussed here in the context of the Bösch report.
In the coming week, the Commission will also adopt the progress report on the modernisation of the accounting system and improvements in the early-warning system.
The Commission has learned the lessons of experience, especially from the Eurostat affair.
The annual activity reports and the Directors-General’s statements form the cornerstones of a new and transparent system of internal control.
For the third year of the activity reports, we have already agreed various further improvements concerning, for example, the timeframe as well as the more precise presentation of reasons and facts giving rise to concerns.
We have agreed uniform norms for internal control and in future, the Central Financial Service of the Directorate-General for Budgets will provide information twice a year of the work undertaken by their internal-audit staff on the implementation of these norms.
New financial regulations have also been in force for the last thirteen months, and these substantially reduce the risk of fraud, especially the new rules on the allocation of subsidies and allowances and the strict rules excluding conflicts of interest.
The authorising officers are responsible for this, and the Directors-General are responsible for ensuring that the control systems are established in line with the financial regulations and the sectoral rules.
The Eurostat affair made last year a very difficult time, and I think that applies to the Commission as much as to the work of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
The President of the Commission made a very detailed statement on all aspects here in this House on two separate occasions, and then joint work was undertaken to develop the necessary conclusions and changes.
In short, Mr President, this is an open report which also offers a link to the report on the approval of the financial management for 2002, which will provide an opportunity to evaluate some of the measures proposed in this report.
Of course we can discuss the Commissioners’ individual political responsibility – I have no objection to that – but in light of all that we have learned from the Eurostat affair, we have to recognise first and foremost that we must put the Commissioners in a position to exercise this political responsibility in the first place.
After all, what we encountered in this particular instance were hair-raising conditions as regards responsibilities, structures and information processes.
I think we really have to say that there must be an end to the Commission always coming up with too little too late.
What is essential as far as the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is concerned is political accountability.
That proud watchword, issued at the beginning of the term of office, proved to have little substance when it came to the Eurostat affair. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, on behalf of my group, I express my satisfaction with the work carried out by the Committee on Budgetary Control and by the rapporteur, whom I congratulate.
I will conclude, Mr&#160;President, by saying that, over and above the naïve and vague declarations of principle by the Commission&#160;–&#160;declarations that we have again heard this evening–&#160;we are waiting for a strong signal, a rigorous reform that will really change the system. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, last year, the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities opposed granting discharge to the Commission in respect of its budgetary management in 2001.
Like President&#160;Prodi, Commissioners Solbes&#160;Mira and Schreyer have demonstrated in both word and deed that they have not learnt sufficient lessons from the enforced resignation of their predecessors five years ago.
We can only conclude that this Commission cannot keep abreast of the facts in its budgetary management, and is not meeting its political responsibility.
The rotten apple spoils the whole barrel. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, never before, in my seventeen years of membership of the Committee on Budgetary Control, has a follow-up report on a discharge which has already been granted left so many fundamental questions unanswered.
I would like to thank him in particular, as well as the committee as a whole for its outstanding work.
The main issue in this report is to investigate and address the improper practices in and around the Statistical Office of the European Communities (Eurostat), such as slush funds, cronyism, violations of the financial regulations, lax treatment of the mobility rules, and various other things.
Admittedly, some errors have been acknowledged, but a clear admission has yet to come.
As early as 1999, the Commission equipped itself with rules on this issue.
We want to support the action plan and cooperate so that there is no repetition of these incidents in future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we see what the Commission is offering by way of lessons learned from the Eurostat affair, cynicism would seem to be the only appropriate response.
As early as September last year, and again on 18 November, President Prodi announced to this House that he would submit an action plan before the year’s end.
Yet the Commission knows perfectly well that this is a race against time, and I can tell the Commissioner that time is precisely what we do not have.
This House has tabled appropriate proposals for your attention.
The responsibility of the authorising Directors-General is a case in point.
For example, we need to reduce external involvement, since this leads to even less control, and in turn to even lower reliability in terms of how contracts are concluded and in terms of the final outcome anticipated when they were put up for tender.
So I started off well, but then I suddenly had to slow up because I thought about the kinds of cases that have been in the papers recently – the Eurostat case obviously springs to mind.
I can rebut it by saying that the procedures for stopping this kind of thing were already in place, but the departments were overworked and there was no time for the system to work through.
We should bear that in mind and think about what that means in this context.
The accounting system has also, of course, come in for criticism and I could explain at this point that there are only two countries in the whole of the European Union that have implemented the kind of accrual accounting system that we want to see.
This Parliament and the Court of Auditors, however, asked the Commission to get on with it.
Of course, we must also look internally at the kinds of problems we have here in Parliament.
Among the many areas that he could have examined, the rapporteur wisely chose to concentrate on the accounting system, the operations and monitoring of Eurostat and the implementation of the common agricultural policy.
As regards the accounting system and the implementation of the CAP, the situation has developed in a far from satisfactory manner.
As for Eurostat, given that most serious wrongdoings were committed prior to 1999, it is worrying that, in all probability, contraventions of financial regulations have continued beyond 1999.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the oral question (B5-0003/2004) to the Commission, on the White Paper on European Space Policy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I welcomed the timeliness and the quality of the action plan presented to us for implementing the European space policy.
Space policy is crucial for international cooperation in research, for the Lisbon strategy and for guaranteeing Europe’s independent access to space.
The plan that we are discussing is of a horizontal nature in that it concerns many Community policies, from agriculture to communications.
The second concerns the discrepancies between Europe’s ambitions and the resources needed to implement the most important part of the space programme, and this seems to be the issue that the White Paper has left open.
I do not believe the intergovernmental level is enough today and, in a world where competition in space matters is growing, we must underpin the development of space and the European Union’s space autonomy with a strong political power, which is embodied by the European Union.
The second point is about the link between the military and civilian.
I think we should tie in our thinking, that of Commissioner Busquin and the DG for Research, with what is happening in the common foreign and security policy, because it is well known that the Americans and all the existing space powers, including the Russians and the Chinese, have devoted a large part of their space developments to military applications.
It is therefore very important that we send those countries a message.
At any rate I am glad that Europe is in on it, but it must not for all that neglect the establishment of Soyuz in Kourou or neglect its independence in space matters.
That is what I wanted to say to you, ladies and gentlemen. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have before us a new definition of priorities and objectives.
The White Paper talks clearly about a demand-driven space policy, while both the White Paper and the previous texts and official statements clearly indicate that the aim is to use space for military objectives.
I would also warn about the anger of the grass-roots movement if an attempt is made to use space to serve defence and security policy, a clearly aggressive policy which aims to turn the European Union into a second global policeman at the side of the United States of America.
The new approach may serve business interests, which will profit both via market mechanisms and from state funding for military applications.
We have no choice but to categorically oppose the policy to commercialise and militarise space. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that the peoples of united Europe are waiting for a grand design.
Our fellow citizens often experience Europe only through the distorting mirror of standards, rules and constraints, and we must make space exploration one of the top ambitions of European integration, an ambition that would bring our fellow citizens both pride and definite benefits in their everyday lives, like the Galileo project.
An extra 4.6% increase in space expenditure every year is good, but it is a minimum.
To do that, we must look to the states, through the ESA and the large national agencies, which, like the DLR in Germany or the CNES in France, have irreplaceable experience.
The draft Constitution for Europe provides for the beginnings of a Community space policy.
I am pleased about that, provided that in return for these new prerogatives the Union becomes a new source of funding for space.
The cooperation with India and China through the Galileo project is an example to be followed and built upon as the opportunities arise, with the Russian Federation, for example, like France has just done with the plan to establish a Soyuz launch pad in Kourou.
We must lift the taboos and say clearly, as the resolution invites us to do, that the funding of space policy must be opened up to private industry. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the various matters raised by this oral question bear witness to the growing interest Parliament is showing in the establishment of a European space policy commensurate with the Union’s ambitions.
I want to pay tribute to Parliament for its unwavering support on these matters and I want to say that it was thanks to this encouragement that the Commission launched a wide-ranging debate in Europe on the future of the space sector, a debate in which some Members of Parliament were directly involved.
The sixth framework programme is already able to contribute to this field, in particular through the priority given to ‘aeronautics and space’ and to information society technologies.
The Commission will be looking into how to continue this form of development in the next framework programme.
Within the next few days, that is on 3 February, the Commission should be adopting a communication based on a detailed report drawn up with the European Space Agency and the Member States drawing the lessons from the initial phase and setting out an action plan for the ‘Global Monitoring for Environment and Security’ (GMS) initiative.
The Envisat satellite is universally admired for its environmental monitoring ability and is a marvellous example of earth observation, in the field of which we are in the vanguard of development.
In this connection, I would like to point out the importance of Parliament’s opinion for concluding this agreement between the European Community and the ESA.
The Commission is also drawing up a policy on access to space and launchers, for which the installation of the Soyuz launcher at the Guiana space centre is a specific example of the strategic cooperation that can be established between Russia and Europe.
I am truly pleased to conclude by telling you that the Commission is including space and space research in its thinking on the future financial perspectives that are at the heart of the Commission’s debate and which Parliament will, on 10 February I think, be the first to know.
And when it comes to financial perspectives, it is clear that research and innovation programmes must have their funding increased, among other things to sustain a space policy that will be crucial for Europe’s technological progress and its place in the world. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner Busquin.
To wind up the debate, I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to Article 42(5) of the Rules of Procedure.(1) The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the oral question (B5-0004/2004) to the Commission on the Communication on 'The future of the textiles and clothing sector in the enlarged European Union'. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, first of all I would like to thank the Commission for the communication on the future of the textile and clothing industry, which has been published at a time when the sector is very worried about the final elimination of the import quota system on 1 January 2005 in view of the competitive pressure from developing countries – countries which also have a large export capacity – which could lead to the closure of many companies and consequently to job losses.
Recent studies indicate job losses in the European Union in the order of 40-60% by 2010 depending on the sector.
Clearly the industry’s future will include a reassessment of the sector’s comparative advantages: the quality of goods, design, the fashion factor, and, above all, the sector’s capacity for innovation and for developing new hi-tech products, especially intelligent fabrics and industrial fabrics.
This also needs to be combined with an action plan and with the adoption of a firm timetable so that activities can get under way before the end of 2004 and above all, before it is too late.
Commissioner, the future of the sector and the continued existence of thousands of jobs are in your hands. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for joining us for this debate on the problems in the textile and clothing industry.
There is no doubt that this debate is taking place, among other reasons, because of the Commission’s communication on the textile industry in the context of an enlarged Europe, for which I want to thank the Commission.
The communication proposes a whole range of measures to assist the sector in its efforts to define a strategy in view of the new market challenges and, in particular, in view of the end of import quotas from 1 January 2005.
In my opinion, some of the measures proposed in the communication are urgently needed.
Finally, it is very important that the Commission implement the proposed measures on protecting intellectual property rights.
I do hope that the rapid approval of the Directive on enforcing intellectual property rights, and the revision of the customs regulation, will become key instruments in protecting this industrial property which is so important for so many sectors, including textiles. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by thanking Commissioner Busquin for coming here today.
I should also like to express my appreciation for the high quality of the Commission Communication on the future of the textile industry in an enlarged Europe.
It is essential to promote companies’ competitiveness through innovation, flexible production practices and by providing the current workforce in the industry with vocational training and further education.
I endorse the request to establish, within the financial framework of the structural funds, a specific regional initiative for the sector in order to address the difficulties that will arise in 2005 and to adapt the workers to the new demands of the employment market; - secondly: creating a textiles and clothing monitoring centre.
This will make it possible to analyse the development of trade between China and the EU and to ensure compliance with the rules in force in both regions.
All of the EU’s bilateral trade agreements must incorporate the principle of corporate social responsibility, compliance with the fundamental rights laid down by the International Labour Organisation and sustainable development. &#160;&#160; Mr President, these are indeed challenging times for the European Union’s textile and clothing industry.
In that context, I am delighted to welcome the Commission’s communication on this matter.
The region I represent, the East Midlands, has the largest cluster of clothing companies in the United Kingdom and has the second largest clothing and textile industry in Europe.
Many of my constituents working in this industry have been made redundant time after time and they see manufacturing moving to the low-wage economies of developing countries.
We have succeeded in this industry in the past and we can continue to do so in the future.
For some businesses EU funding has proved to be an important tool in boosting competitiveness.
The East Midlands Textile Association runs numerous projects – funded through the European Regional Development Fund – which assist companies: projects such as MAS, which helps small businesses in the region to branch out into new markets, or the Business ICT Bureau, which provides an expert source of ICT help specific to the needs of the textile sector.
Consequently, the threatened total abolition of import quotas next 1&#160;January may seriously hamper development and exacerbate unemployment, especially in areas with the highest concentration of textiles and clothing companies, such as the North and Beiras regions of Portugal.
This is a serious problem that is repeated more or less throughout Portugal.
It must be borne in mind that the textiles and clothing industry is of major strategic importance to the EU with great prospects for the future, and that it can make a major contribution towards promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion.
It is therefore essential that the Commission present a concrete, cohesive and clearly defined action plan, in terms of instruments, financial resources and timetable.
Particular attention should be paid in such an action plan to encouraging innovation and using new technology in the sector, to strengthening interaction between the various sectors of the industry, to carrying out an extensive programme of vocational training, to modernising and strengthening support for small and medium-sized enterprises and to protecting the environment.
A sectoral approach must also be adopted for the textiles and clothing sector, specifically within the framework of negotiations of the World Trade Organisation. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, next year will see radical change in the textile sector, when quotas are abolished after over 30&#160;years.
The import tariffs in the European Union now rank among the lowest in the world.
The result is that the world price for a bale of cotton has fallen by half since&#160;1990. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to welcome these initiatives, in both the oral question and the legislative resolution that we will vote on tomorrow, and to say that we will support them, along with certain other initiatives tabled by fellow Members on the issue.
Ours is a vote in favour of placing greater emphasis on free, equal and fair trade, and on respect for the principle of reciprocity in international trade relations, which, as is well documented, is not currently respected, particularly in the textiles and clothing sector.
China already accounts for almost 25% of world textile production, an alarming figure, particularly for genuine developing countries such as Bangladesh or Vietnam, which may also be crushed by the Chinese steamroller in this sector.
Exploitation of labour, particularly of child labour, reminds us of the wretched conditions that marked our own industrial revolution.
On the other hand, the negotiators of the Doha Agenda for development must fight for conditions of access to markets of third countries that are equitable, requiring in particular that they comply with the principle of reciprocity and open up new markets.
Portugal, as we all know, is a country in which jobs and economic and social cohesion depend a great deal on the textiles and clothing sector.
The Commission must therefore back up its words with action. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is quite opportune that I am the last speaker, as I want to add a note of optimism to the debate, which until now has been rather gloomy.
I appreciate too that we are running into a new era where import controls will be different and a new sector will be joining our textile industry.
We must be sure that when the Commission acts, our textile and clothing sector – much of it being made up of small companies – is able to invest in new technology and production techniques.
We must also – and this is a point which has not been previously mentioned – protect our industry from counterfeiting.
In view of these major challenges that face us in the textiles and clothing sector and which will remain for some years to come, in particular, as you have stressed, the effect of abolishing import quotas on 1 January 2005, the Commission has re-examined its policies and instruments in order to identify measures or lines of action that might make the textiles and clothing sector more competitive.
These are reflected in the communication to which you have drawn attention, the one on the future of the textiles and clothing sector adopted by the Commission on 29 October 2003 and welcomed at a Council meeting on competitiveness on 27 November 2003.
As you know, the Union’s strategy for international trade and for Doha is to seek reciprocity for textiles and clothing.
Together, these policies and measures seek to give the industry and those working in the sector a clear, predictable and coherent framework that will make it easy to plan strategies and investments in the medium and long term.
The Commission welcomes the support for these initiatives and ideas contained in the resolution on the future of the textiles sector that Parliament will shortly be adopting.
The Commission will look closely at the new ideas mentioned in the text of the resolution.
Some of the recommendations contained in the communication could be followed by concrete proposals within a relatively short space of time.
In order to assist the Commission in these investigations and in following up these matters, it will be putting in place a high level group whose task will be to formulate recommendations for improving the conditions of competitiveness.
The purpose of this high level group will be to contribute to the process of implementing industrial and commercial policies in the textiles and clothing sector of the enlarged Union.
It will provide reports and recommendations to the Commission and other players taking decisions on the proposed initiative in order to help the sector adjust to the various challenges facing it.
Those reports will have to include recommendations on the key issues affecting competition in the sector.
The high level group will be made up of commissioners, ministers, heads of undertakings and directors general or presidents of federations involved in the textiles and clothing sector.
In fact, I recently had the opportunity to visit a textile undertaking which has made considerable efforts in research and innovation and has become competitive on the Chinese market as a result, although it was in a difficult position a few years ago.
With a much more effective patent on dyeing and more mechanisms for managing productivity, it has become competitive in a very precise niche.
The services also tell us that exports to China increase when there are these new industrial capacities.
It is therefore clear that there is a future when we develop this research and innovation in a field where we have know-how.
This high level group will start work in February 2004, that is virtually tomorrow, looking in particular at the objectives and the expected results, and will be followed by at least two plenary sessions before July 2004.
The Commission will present its first report on the group’s work to the Council in July 2004.
The Commission is aware of the need to move quickly, since it wants to implement all of it before the end of 2004.
I believe I have demonstrated how interested the Commission and Parliament are in this strategic sector for our economy. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much Commissioner Busquin.
To wind up the debate, I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to Article 42(5) of the Rules of Procedure.(1) The debate is closed.
