Oral clarification concerning voting - (CS) Mr Chairman, I welcome the fact that we gave the green light to the modern framework for further development of the automotive industry in Europe.
Increasing requirements for safer and safer car designs and for more efficient engines that should emit one third less greenhouse gases are all objectives that already imply an increase in prices as well as an increase in the running costs of cars.
The elimination of old cars from the European roads is therefore the basic requirement if the CARS 21 is to prove its worth.
That would also be real proof of the effectiveness of CARS 21.
Written clarification concerning voting in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my Polish colleague Jacek Saryusz-Wolski, asking Parliament to approve the amendment to the Council Regulation of 2004 on the establishment of partnerships in the framework of the stabilisation and association process.
in writing. - (NL) In December 2005 the Council granted the status of candidate country to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and in June 2006 Montenegro was recognised as an independent state.
It is well known that the Netherlands and Belgium are opposed to that for as long as the war criminal Ratko Mladić has not been handed over to the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) in The Hague.
I therefore expect that point to be put back on the agenda, but am not voting against the report.
in writing. - (DE) Tolls imposed on heavy goods vehicles, supposedly introduced in order to shift traffic from road to rail, have predictably failed to make rail transport more appealing but have been offloaded onto consumers.
in writing. - (PL) The rapporteur, Paolo Costa, has shown how discrimination in transport rates and conditions can be abolished.
It is true that one can quickly achieve significant benefits by introducing just a few changes into existing legislation.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on airport charges, following the report of my German colleague Ulrich Stockmann.
At the point when European airports, which are mainly publicly owned, are being privatised, when users do not always wholly appreciate their consumption of services, and when companies are developing in a context involving many variables, it was quite natural to regulate the determination of airport charges.
in writing. - (SV) The Commission proposals contain a long list of detailed rules on how airport charges should be collected.
The European Parliament considers that the common principles on airport charges should only apply to airports with over five million passenger movements per year, or to those at which annual traffic amounts to over 15% of the number of passenger movements in the Member State in question.
On the basis of these arguments, we have voted in favour of the proposal of the European Parliament, but against the legislative resolution in the final vote.
in writing. - (PT) Although it includes some points that improve the Commission proposal, the report continues to reflect and is an integral part of the process of air transport deregulation in the EU.
The privatisations that have taken place in the sector have not added value to the services provided and have caused job losses and a deterioration in workers' rights, and in some cases technical and operational problems.
We regret that our proposals have been rejected.
The key factor in this directive must not be national borders but objective criteria if its purpose is to ensure that no airport abuses a dominant market position.
Smaller airports, even if they are the only air terminal in their country, do not run the risk of perpetrating such abuse, especially in the case of Luxembourg, where the aforementioned rival airports lie within easy reach and, moreover, are used by budget airlines.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say, as a Member of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, that I am in favour of the Stockmann report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on airport charges.
The provision of paragraph 5 makes the Italian system more consistent with the scheme of the directive, enabling current procedures to be maintained, provided that the independent regulatory body provided for in Article 10, which monitors the correct application of the charges, and the body which approves charging levels nationally are combined into the same authority.
in writing. - (SV) The big air transport companies have pressed for a specific EU arrangement to regulate the collection of airport charges by airports.
The Swedish air transport agency LFV and the smaller air transport companies, however, have misgivings with regard to new legislation.
Airports are already regulated by national authorities, and their action is limited by existing competition legislation in the EU.
The European Parliament has reduced the scope of the directive.
Along with others, I voted for the amendments limiting the directive to 67 airports (compared to around 150 which would have been affected before).
in writing. - (FR) In the first reading in the codecision procedure, I voted in favour of a legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the export and import of dangerous chemicals, based on the report by my Dutch colleague Johannes Blokland.
Rules adopted at EU level are vital for the provision of a high level of protection of the environment and public health, and we aspire to these rules being extended internationally.
I very much welcome and support this legislation and the European Parliament's compromise package.
in writing. - (PT) The Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure for Certain Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade was approved in September 1998 and entered into force on 24 February 2004.
However, derogations granted to exporting countries awaiting consent may no longer be valid for more than 12 months.
in writing. - (PL) The rapporteur, Johannes Blokland, is right in noting that adequate rules should be adopted worldwide and at European level in order to provide a high level of protection for the environment and public health.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the report.
I see the implementation of the Rotterdam Convention on Prior Informed Consent (PIC) as a positive step in this policy area.
Ensuring that prior consent is given from third countries receiving dangerous substances helps ensure that developing countries do not fall victim to the dumping of restricted chemicals in their backyard without their agreement.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the report by Johannes Blokland on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the export and import of dangerous chemicals.
This more flexible approach could result, especially in less developed states, in countries no longer enjoying any protection against imports of chemical substances.
The introduction of the new regulations should be preceded by drawing up guidelines concerning the use of computer products and documentation and providing training in accordance with EU standards, particularly for the new Member States.
in writing. - (FR) In the first reading in the codecision procedure, I voted in favour of the legislative resolution amending the proposal of the European Commission amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, on the basis of the report by my excellent Hungarian colleague Csaba Őry, which introduces technical amendments to the European Commission's proposal with a view to making the Regulation clearer or easier to read.
in writing. - (PL) With reference to the principle of the four basic freedoms in European economic integration, I would also like to draw attention to the meaning of Regulation 1408/71, which aims to promote the free movement of workers in the European Union.
Whilst it is true that the report in question relates to strictly technical issues, these very issues, in serving to update the above-mentioned Regulation by making it take into account social insurance changes at national level, have a direct impact on the everyday life of citizens who are travelling, working or living in another Member State.
I would also agree with the rapporteur that, when implementing the principle of free movement in Europe, social conditions should be set out in a precise manner.
in writing. - (PL) Mr Őry is right in acknowledging that, on the level of the European Union, effective coordination needs to be ensured between Member States as regards benefit payments.
in writing. - (FR) On the basis of the own-initiative report of my German friend and colleague Jorgo Chatzimarkakis, I voted in favour of the Resolution on a Competitive Automotive Regulatory Framework, following the Communication from the European Commission based on the 'CARS 21' high-level group.
The automotive sector, in which we have a great tradition, must be given support as it undergoes the major changes taking place today.
The sector is one of the largest employers, with over 2 million direct and 10 million indirect jobs, and is therefore a key factor in Europe's economic, social and cultural life.
This close interaction between the industry, the environment, energy and transport makes it one of the EU's most regulated areas - it is covered by around 80 directives and 115 UNECE regulations.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report proposing a competitive automotive regulatory framework.
I welcome the adoption of the deadlines that Parliament has set, coinciding with the date of 2015, to achieve an emissions limit of 125 g/km for new cars coming onto the market.
CARS 21 recommends a holistic approach to road safety, involving vehicle technology, infrastructure and road users (suggested measures include electronic stability control, seat-belt reminders and emergency braking systems).
in writing. - (NL) I have voted against the Chatzimarkakis report, because the Commission proposal is more environmentally friendly.
The rapporteur suggests a target of 125 g/km of CO2 in 2015.
The Commission proposal suggests a maximum emission of 120 g/km of CO2 in 2012.
I wonder where the rapporteur has got the less environmentally favourable proposal from without being influenced by the motor industry lobby.
For years now there have been voluntary agreements between the Commission and the motor industry to reduce CO2 emissions.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (NL) Together with my colleague, Mrs Liotard, I voted against the Chatzimarkakis report, because the original Commission proposal is more environmentally friendly.
The rapporteur sets a target of 125 g/km of CO2 in 2015.
In the Commission proposal, the maximum emission was 120 g/km of CO2 in 2012.
I wonder where the rapporteur got this less environmentally favourable proposal from, if it is not influenced by the motor industry lobby.
For years now there have been voluntary agreements between the Commission and the motor industry to reduce CO2 emissions.
Only 6% of the production costs of new cars are staff costs.
If the motor industry wants to decide to move its operations to low-wage countries, a less strict rule will not prevent it.
in writing. - (PT) The future of the competitiveness of the European automotive sector is extremely important.
The EU should therefore continue to adopt a long-term approach based on investing in research and development and improving the operation of the internal market by means of the necessary legislation and by simplifying administrative procedures, making them quicker and less costly.
I therefore voted in favour of the report on the CARS 21 initiative.
in writing. - I will be voting in favour of the Chatzimarkakis report, even though I believe that the car industry has to do more to reduce emissions from the vehicles it produces.
But we must work with industry and educate them on the need to produce more environmentally-friendly cars.
in writing. - (DE) The report entitled CARS 21: A Competitive Automotive Regulatory Framework has my full support.
in writing. - I voted against the Chatzimarkakis report, because the Commission proposal is more environmentally friendly.
The rapporteur sets as target 125 grams of CO2 per km in 2015.
The Commission proposal suggests a maximum emission target of 120 grams of CO2 in 2012, which was retabled as an amendment.
The choice of cost-cutting on labour is unrelated to the move to 120 grams of CO2 per km in 2012.
Should the car industry decide to move to low wage countries, they will do this nonetheless.
in writing. - (NL) The transport sector accounts for one fifth of greenhouse gases.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on tax treatment of losses in cross-border situations, based on the own-initiative report by my excellent colleague Piia-Noora Kauppi in response to a communication from the European Commission on the same subject.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Kauppi Report because there is a need for continued detailed debate on the various contentious issues that arise in this report.
In cross-border situations fiscal competence must be fairly distributed between the Member States concerned, avoiding the double offsetting of losses and risks of tax evasion.
in writing. - (SV) The internal market is the EU's greatest contribution to democracy and prosperity in Europe.
We therefore consider that the question of harmonising tax bases should be investigated more thoroughly before a report such as this is debated in Parliament.
The report draws attention to the major problems associated with branches of companies that benefit from different tax systems, frequently within the framework of a single company, but in different countries.
I believe that the European Union should definitely not think about the harmonisation of taxes on legal persons, but it should coordinate taxes on the EU level so as to create real benefits as a result of tax competitiveness.
I am very pleased that the rapporteur puts forward the same view in the report that has been presented.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats welcome the Community strategy on health and safety at work and have therefore voted for the report.
According to ILO recommendations the number of inspectors should be one per 10 000 employees.
After the Government's savings Sweden will only have 0.7 inspector per 10 000 employees.
in writing. - (FR) On the basis of the report by my British colleague Glenis Willmott, I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution on the Community strategy on health and safety at work 2007-2012, in response to the Communication from the European Commission on this subject.
Every year, almost 500 000 people die or suffer permanent disability for work-related reasons, and we must applaud the European Commission's goal of achieving an average 25% reduction in work-related accidents in the EU.
I support the idea of increased activity by the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work in Bilbao (Spain).
It recognises the prime role of Member States in promoting the health and safety agenda.
in writing. - (PT) The report approved by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs covers significant aspects of the struggle for better living and working conditions, with greater protection of health and safety.
in writing. - (SV) The June List considers that issues of health and safety at work are essentially a national matter.
On the basis of the arguments made above we have voted in favour of the amendment to limit the strategy on health and safety at work and against the report in the final vote.
in writing. - (RO) I am in favour of this report and I support the proposal of using the Structural Funds to invest in mining infrastructure in order to prevent so many occupational accidents occurring in this sector.
The European Union can remedy the situation by the funding it makes available to the Member States.
It is important that all Member States should reach the minimum level specified by the World Labour Organization, of at least one labour protection inspector for every 10 000 workers.
in writing. - (FR) The aims of the Community strategy on health and safety at work for 2007-2012 - while undoubtedly laudable in themselves - are unlikely to be realised, just as the Lisbon strategy is unlikely to be realised by 2010.
Moreover, such is the degree of disparity in legislation on these matters in Europe that they are not readily manageable at Community level, and the big risk is that health and safety standards will converge towards the lowest common denominator.
The Community strategy for health and safety at work has not taken these parameters into account.
I therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - Mr President, I am delighted to congratulate our rapporteur on a balanced report taking account of an important strategy, as the EU has been instrumental in raising health and safety standards at work across the EU and the Community strategy to 2012 looks set to continue that work.
in writing. - (NL) Health and safety at work have an extremely important part to play on the European agenda and in the Lisbon Strategy.
The Willmott report improves considerably on the Commission proposal.
in writing. - (EL) The Community Strategy 2007-2012 on Health and Safety at Work does not deal with the actual causes of accidents and conceals the irresponsibility of capital.
