This does not alter the fact that full interpreting in all the new languages will only be available from 1 May 2004.
I would like to ask the President-in-Office to comment on one issue which was not raised at the summit and which the Liberal Group feels should have been raised: the continued detention without trial of 26 European nationals at Guantanamo Bay.
I would ask the Italian Presidency, on behalf of the European Union, to raise this at every opportunity with the US Administration and to place it on the agenda for the next EU-US summit.
Second, I should point out that insofar as there may be a number of technical working groups on some aspects of the Intergovernmental Conference, the European Parliament will be fully associated with the work of any such group.
Third, for the first time ever, the President of the European Parliament has been invited by the presidency of the Council to attend and contribute to every summit meeting to be held on the Intergovernmental Conference, first in Rome on 4 October 2003, and again last week in Brussels.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be able to report on the proceedings of the Intergovernmental Conference and the recent European Council.
At the opening of the Conference on 4 October 2003, the Heads of State or Government, together with the President of Parliament and the President of the European Commission, adopted the Declaration of Rome, which reaffirmed the essential role of European integration in securing peace, democracy, prosperity and solidarity in our continent.
I want to emphasise that we have pursued our efforts in close cooperation with the European Parliament, as you mentioned, Mr President.
The debate between the Heads of State or Government of 16 October confirmed that there is consensus on the issue, which, I would say, is increasing.
In particular, I would like to stress the agreement in principle on the European Initiative for Growth: an initiative that the Italian Presidency launched at the start of the six-month term and which the Commission has fully endorsed and made its own.
The Initiative seeks to create transport infrastructure and energy and telecommunications networks, with a parallel effort to increase investment in innovation and research.
In addition, we reiterated the objective of investing 3% of GDP in research and innovation.
The Council also reaffirmed the importance of the quality of legislation and, above all, the importance of simplification, deregulation and the efficiency and transparency of public administrations.
Lastly, we confirmed the importance of the social dimension of European economic development.
We addressed a number of aspects of social protection with a view to making open coordination of Member States’ policies in this field more effective.
The aim is to promote and facilitate the modernisation of social protection systems in order to cope with the gradual ageing of the European population and to ensure the financial sustainability of pensionsystems.
The European Council also addressed certain aspects of the programmeof workestablished at Tampere, Laeken, Seville and, lastly, Thessaloniki, regarding asylum and immigration.
For this reason, we welcomed the Commission's proposal to create a Border Management Agencyto enhance the various forms of operational cooperation between the Member States for the management of external borders.
As regards controlling migratory flows, we reaffirmed the importance of an effective common policy for readmission and return.
I believe President Prodi is going to update the House on the decisions taken in this regard.
While reaffirming full respect for national prerogatives in the sensitive area of deciding the number of legal immigrants to be admitted to their territories, we welcomed the Commission's initiation of a study on the relationship between legal and illegal immigration.
I would also like to stress here that our Christian principles tell us that we must genuinely seek to give these immigrants a reception which is worthy of our level of civilisation, these people who leave their countries where poverty reigns and come to Europe trusting solely in their will to work and in the strength of their arms.
I believe that we must all reflect carefully on the need for civilised Europe, Christian Europe, the Europe of prosperity, to open its doors and welcome those who come here hoping sincerely to be able to build a better future for themselves and their children.
Thus, Europe reiterates its determination to contribute to the implementation of all aspects of the roadmap, stressing the importance of an effective international monitoring mechanism.
We also confirmed the urgent need for an economic plan to revive the region's economy – which we named after the plan which brought about Europe’s recovery after the Second World War, the Marshall Plan – with the support of the G8 countries and the Member States of the European Union.
This resolution improves the outlook for the Donors Conference, which is, as you know, to be held in Madrid on 24 October 2003.
The Italian Presidency maintained constant contact with France, Germany and the United Kingdom with regard to the mission of their Foreign Ministers to Teheran yesterday, 21 October.
The Presidency has closely followed the developments of the initiative since its conception in July 2003, considering it part of the broad action of the European Union as regards Iran.
We therefore welcome the positive outcome of that mission.
The Council also addressed other developments in world affairs.
On Kosovo, firstly, the Council urged all of the parties involved in the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina to engage constructively in this process.
We refer to the tragic developments in the situation in Bolivia and the turbulent preparations for elections in Guatemala, and express our concern at the violence and intimidation that is dominating the pre-electoral period there.
Lastly, I would like to note the warm congratulations extended by the European Council to His Holiness John Paul II on the occasion of the twenty-fifth anniversary of a pontificate devoted to building peace and solidarity among peoples.
Today, I am pleased to say that the European Council has endorsed our ideas for reviving the economy and stimulating growth and jobs.
Its main aims will be, firstly, to overcome the barriers to coordination, especially those deriving from red tape, and, secondly, to mobilise the public and private-sector funds needed to finance certain infrastructure projects already on the drawing board and get them started.
The projects selected for the quick-start list will be taken from the longer list of 29 projects put forward earlier this year.
The list is based on two main ideas: a desire to produce practical results quickly and the great need to ensure compatibility with the sustainable-development goals we have set ourselves.
This desire to produce tangible results takes three main forms.
Indeed, the Commission has proposed raising the Community’s contribution to 30% of the cost of the cross-border component of each project.
This brings greater leverage in mobilising private-sector and other public-sector funding.
The impact of investments will be all the greater if financial efforts are focused on those projects that are ready for take-off instead of being dispersed.
This means practically resolving the most complex difficulties, particularly with a view to enlargement, creating jobs, stimulating growth and harnessing research and technological innovation potential, laying the foundations for improvements to competitiveness.
Lastly, the quick-start list gives great consideration to compatibility, and the projects selected are sustainable in environmental as well as in economic and financial terms.
Of course, these are not the only projects that can be implemented under the Growth Initiative.
There are several other important aspects to this Initiative.
Indeed, it has given the Commission the green light to prepare a detailed proposal, in conjunction with the European Investment Bank, to put to the Heads of State or Government for approval in December.
The next few months will therefore be an important test for the European Union in this area.
In other words, if we are serious about meeting the Lisbon targets, we must hope that, in December, the European Council turns words into action and implements our proposals.
I have never concealed the fact that, on this point, I was disappointed with the outcome at Nice and I have done my best to promote a simple system: a simple majority of at least 50% of the Member States and of 50% plus one of the population.
The draft Constitution put forward by the Convention provided for a slightly more complicated system: 50% of the Member States and 60% of the population.
There are some, however, who would now like to raise the figure for a qualified majority to 66% of the population.
Looking at the possible consequences, it would make it so much easier for a small minority to block an initiative and hamstring the Union.
In the way it is made up, as we have already said, the Commission must reflect all national perspectives.
Moreover, even the Convention came out in favour of a Commission comprising one Commissioner from each Member State.
Little consideration has been given to this, but the Convention’s proposal isone Commissioner per Member State.
However, the structure proposed was complicated and, in my opinion, unworkable.
Our proposal must not, therefore, be seen as reopening the constitutional package – there is already one Commissioner per Member State – but, in actual fact, as a contribution to a final compromise.
The proof is that a majority of countries are clearly in favour of a Commission with Commissioners coming from each Member State of the Union and all enjoying the same voting rights.
The Commission can play its political role only if it can assert a legitimacy and credibility of its own, and these derive from its close link with national cultures and perspectives across the whole Union.
Ladies and gentlemen, as we have seen from these brief words, the European Union needs a dynamic economy and a sound Constitution.
We must release all our existing energies and harness our resources to the full.
The Commission has done its part and perhaps even more than its duty, for many of our proposals have not been accepted.
There was the Tampere programme and the Thessaloniki programme too.
Common channels must be defined for legal immigration and a global negotiation organised on that basis with the countries of emigration, the countries of provenance of immigrants.
We cannot close our eyes to them, and the Commission certainly will not. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Intergovernmental Conference was at the heart of the Brussels Summit, and our group welcomes the Italian Presidency’s determination and goodwill in intending to come up with a result in time for the Summit on 12/13 December.
We wish to encourage you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in your endeavours to bring this about, for, if the Intergovernmental Conference drags itself out into 2004, there is an even greater risk of further chapters being opened, with the result that we will not come to a conclusion.
We therefore urge you to do everything to enable a result to be achieved under your presidency.
We take the view that the Convent has put before us a proposal that is in line with the Community method, and one that we should allow to succeed.
The sight of wretched, hungry, thirsty people, including children – such as we have seen on the shores of the island of Lampedusa – shows that this is not just about the protection of our external borders, but about these pitiable people being given a chance in their own countries and not needing to get in their boats.
Our concern is not only with the twenty-six Europeans, but also with all those who are detained in Guantanamo.
Whilst we are all in favour of combating terrorism, our Christian conception of man teaches us that every human being, even the worst of criminals, has the right to be tried in accordance with the law.
We therefore appeal to our American friends to abide by the principles of human rights.
Consider, if you will, that these 600 detainees include five or six who have done nothing.
I speak as one who had the pleasure of serving for ten years as chairman of Parliament’s security and disarmament subcommittee, when we always supported Europe’s strong defence capacity as a member of the North Atlantic Alliance.
It is on that foundation that any common European defence policy must rest. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President—in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the President—in-Office of the Council on the Brussels Summit offers us – to put it in artistic terms – a sketch, an outline in chiaroscuro, because a very important challenge for the whole of Europe is being faced, which is to draw up the Constitution and also to organise our territory.
With regard to the Intergovernmental Conference, I must express my group’s concern, because it gives the impression that it is producing a litany, a repetition of positions, and is not getting down to solving problems.
This is very important, because we are in a Parliament and, having achieved shared legislative power for the first time, the Conference’s first decision has been to eliminate the possibility of legislating jointly with us.
With regard to the draft Constitution, I would also like to point out that the economic issue demonstrates the insufficiency of an important matter: the regulation of economic governance.
With regard to Guantánamo – on which we held a hearing with other political groups in Parliament in order to debate the issue – I must say that at the moment we have European citizenship in the Constitution.
I must say, Mr President—in-Office of the Council, that with the cardinal’s language you have used, what you are proposing are recommendations to the national governments.
With regard to employment, we eagerly await the Koch report and it makes sense to talk about the issue which was launched under the Swedish Presidency of the European demographic autumn in relation to pensions and immigration.
On immigration and the decisions of the European Council in Thessaloniki, I would like to say to you, Mr President, given that Europe is secular and that European values are not the monopoly of any single religion – for the first time in history, fortunately – that we share in the regrets and condolences over what is happening.
I must also say that in your government there are people who are doing positive work – and we are quite happy to recognise it: Mr Pisanu is demonstrating serious political responsibility in the face of absolutely intolerable and xenophobic attitudes on the part of other members of your government.
Finally, turning to the so-called Conference of Donors in Madrid, our group fully supports the proposal approved by the European Council to contribute EUR 200 million.
We very much look forward to that. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Liberal Group in this House welcomes the Italian Presidency's initiative to associate the President of this House more closely with the work of the European Council.
As a symbol for them, I have in front of me 26 candles.
I am sorry that the President-in- Office did not respond to my invitation to say a few words this morning about the continued detention of those European nationals and, indeed, of all 600 detainees.
It seems to my Group that their detention without charge is a scandal and that the failure of European Union leaders in the Council presidency to keep the matter on their radar screen must be remedied.
This House is no less concerned by the situation in Chechnya.
I question whether it was wise for the Italian Presidency not to push for decisions on the Constitution or to make compromise proposals now rather than leaving things to November.
The lack of proposals has encouraged some countries to retreat from the Convention's agreement, and Poland and Spain to get a hearing for their self-interested sentimentality for the discarded agreements of Nice.
We would have liked to see the Council putting its legislative money where its mouth is and building the dynamic, open economy we were promised at Lisbon.
The one positive development, the creation of a European agency to manage the security of our expanding borders, was again agreed beforehand and merely rubber-stamped.
President-in-Office, much rests on your November compromise text for the Constitution.
It will be your last throw of the dice and we wish you luck since we fear you may need it! &#160;&#160; I should like to remind the House that last week the Conference of Presidents invited the Council and the Commission to make statements this afternoon on the issue of Chechnya.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, lastly, and in conclusion, I wish on behalf of my group to put forward a practical, constructive and achievable proposal, which would enable you to make one of those gestures that honour the Union in the eyes of our fellow citizens, because they really bring to life the values that we claim imbue our texts.
This proposal concerns peace in the Middle East.
As you know, extremely courageous men and women, both Palestinian and Israeli, have spent two years working on a new peace plan, without sidestepping any of the problems that have impeded all official negotiations to date.
The Italian Presidency should have presented some conclusive documents at Brussels to attempt to resolve issues which have been staring us in the face for months.
The Legislative Council is essential to ensure democratic control and the separation of powers, and, today, we would like your government to provide guarantees on this matter.
There is no discussion of the quality of these investments or whether they are necessary; everyone is treating the issue as though it were a matter of national prestige.
We continue, undeterred, to say that what would help to genuinely boost environmentally and socially sustainable growth in Europe now is a kind of Marshall Plan – a different sort of Marshall plan, promoting useful infrastructure but also renewable energies, land regeneration, research and innovation.
Without further ado, we would say to President Prodi that we greatly welcome the idea, particularly if this new list is based on the quality of the work and its social and environmental sustainability, unlike the Van Miert list organised by Commissioner de Palacio.
We must remember&#160;–&#160;since the Commission and the Council appear to have forgotten&#160;–&#160;that Parliament has power of codecision on this matter and we intend to make full use of it.
Clearly, the decision was affected by the reluctance and delays on the part of the Commission in presenting its proposal and by the excessive consideration it gave to lobbies, as well as by its serious oversight in failing to incorporate the demands of civil society during an extremely long pretence at consultation.
One last point, Mr President-in-Office: as you know, the European Parliament is extremely sensitive to the question of its citizens’ rights.
I must first say to the President of the Commission that, for once, I am satisfied with his proposals, and I am similarly satisfied with the proposals of the European Council concerning the initiative for growth.
For that to happen, however, all of our countries must adopt a number of measures to encourage private investment and, in particular, we must ensure that the red tape of the European Commission and the consequences thereof do not add to the red tape that already exists in each of our countries.
There is now a danger of there being group presidencies, with three or four countries leading the EU for 18 to 24 months and, in practice, the possibility of the largest country in the group taking charge of the most important tasks.
To limit the burden of work, the individual Council formations and, in particular, the 297 working parties in the Council might be given the option of selecting their own chairman from among themselves on the basis of a combination of fair rotation and the chairman’s personal qualifications for presiding over the meetings.
They are able to introduce the ordinary legislative procedure and move from unanimity to decisions by qualified majority through Article 24(4) and, for example, with reference to Article 39(8) in the case of foreign policy.
Instead, for example, of the Danish Prime Minister’s desire for a catalogue of competences with a clear division of power between the EU and the Member States, we get unrestricted prime ministerial government and much more centralisation of legislative power in Brussels.
We must now hope that all the EU countries will hold referendums on the draft Constitution.
Here, we have the disunited states of Europe, we have bureaucracies that are destroying each other and, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have a Council which was called upon by Parliament in July to appoint a European representative for the Caucasus and, on 4 September, and, again, on 24 September, to appoint a representative for Iraq.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, despite the calls from the European Parliament, you have not yet produced an informal draft on the death penalty and we are almost at the end of the UN General Assembly.
On this, we can wait: Israel can wait, Turkey can wait and we European federalists of the great pro-European tradition of Italy and many other parts of Europe can wait too. &#160;&#160; Mr President, with less passion than the previous speaker, but with at least as much conviction, I would like to say that I feel a sense of frustration over the way in which the Intergovernmental Conference is developing.
I feel this sense of frustration firstly because I believe that we have lost the spirit of the Convention, which consisted of seeking the best for the future of the Europe of 25, and my respected friend, Mr Pasqua, recalled Lenin when he said that facts are stubborn.
The Italian Presidency has sent a proposal telling the governments what has to be dealt with in the Convention.
The response has been 150 pages of proposals to reopen almost all the issues that the Convention dealt with.
In reality, moreover, the Constitutional text could have been more ambitious.
I will give an example of what I mean: Part&#160;IV, which refers to the revision of the constitutional text, was dealt with very little in the Convention, due to lack of time, and President Giscard&#160;d’Estaing even promised that we would discuss it after Thessaloniki.
I therefore believe that the Intergovernmental Conference must concentrate on genuinely political issues, which have not yet been resolved, on which there is no consensus between the governments and which are very simple: the presidency of the Council and the rotating presidencies, the weighting of votes and the distribution of seats in the European Parliament and the number of Commissioners.
We will have to seek a compromise solution and I hope that the Italian Presidency will do so and do so quickly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I will just focus on the issues relating to the Intergovernmental Conference, although, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you were very restrained on this subject too, as, moreover, were the Council’s conclusions of 16 October, which devoted a mere eight and a half lines to it.
However, the representatives of all the governments which are now opposed to the idea had accepted this innovation as part of the final overall compromise of the Convention.
This way of doing things is unacceptable.
It is the Presidency’s task to display the necessary ability for persuasion and drive, confident in the knowledge, Mr Berlusconi, that it represents not only Italy’s position but all the positions and groupings which contributed to the conclusion agreed upon by the Convention.
These groupings include the parliaments&#160;–&#160;we must never forget that: the European Parliament and 28 national parliaments, in other words the direct representatives, legitimised by the vote of the citizens, the peoples of the Union.
We must do everything possible to stop this happening. &#160;&#160; I could not interrupt a Hemingway quotation, but I would urge colleagues to keep to their speaking time! &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office, will the Italian Presidency succeed at this historic time for the Constitution and European integration?
My hope, right up to the last, will be that the fruits of the Convention mature and are harvested in the interests of Europe.
I would like to consult you on two political considerations as you approach the final two months of your presidency.
The first consideration is radical, practical and symbolic all at once: we expect the Italian Presidency, together with the Commission, to lay the foundations for genuine-level European financing, controls and sanctions in the field of immigration.
Mr President-in-Office, I also expect an initiative from the Council you head on the situation in Iraq.
The unanimous vote in the Security Council may lead to a new way forward.
The European members of the Security Council have, at last, come to an agreement, and now the Council has to turn that compromise into an initiative: there can and must be a return to multilateralism, we can work together in the field of reconstruction, the humanitarian crisis, security and the democratic transition to Iraqi sovereignty in Iraq under the mandate and guidance of the United Nations.
You have confirmed the intention to conclude the work before December, remaining as faithful as possible to the Convention’s text without substantial compromises.
President Prodi is right: an inflexible Constitution would inevitably fail.
I therefore hope that precisely Italy, which, in 1985, succeeded with the IGC that led to the Single Act in achieving the impossible, will, in 2003, live up to its Europeanist traditions and help to launch a constitutional text which is flexible enough to be workable and convincing enough to be a reference point for European development over the next 50 years. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, to be honest, I have to say that this debate is, quite frankly, schizophrenic.
However, the war continues in Iraq and is polluting the world.
We might also look at the measures restricting freedom in the Arab countries in the face of terrorism and war.
You talk about an economic policy and you seem not to realise that Europe’s economy is actually in crisis and in decline.
You can only give any real weight to your policy if you disregard reality.
Reality will be your downfall. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, it appears from the large number of topics that were discussed at the Summit that the Council is well aware of its tasks.
The Council wants trans-European networks, but, in practice, Member States baulk at building the few kilometres of track that would make it a little easier for their neighbouring countries to export their own freight.
There is talk of the need to offer development opportunities to people in their own countries, but if sugar or cotton are involved, we always allow the economic interests of a small group, of our own population, to prevail over the opportunities of the many people who live in misery, who try to escape from it and then drown on our beaches.
The European Union needs more effective structures in order to act more effectively, without the Member States throwing a spanner in the works.
We should take more control of our shared destiny and this should not be thwarted by the prestige politics or short-sightedness of a few Member States.
We want a European constitution that is truly a new treaty, which gives the European peoples a new and brighter future and which also grants the regions access to the Court of Justice if their rights are violated. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office, the welcomes the Council’s decision to adopt a defence policy, reinforcing a consolidated relationship of cooperation with NATO, and stresses, with regard to the work of the IGC, the need for each Member State to have a Commissioner with voting rights; if Europe is to meet the challenge of wiping out terrorism, it must be capable of protecting every part of its territories and every citizen of its peoples, but also of promoting peace, justice, freedom, democracy and development in countries in which violence and hunger force millions of people to despair and to become refugees.
Europe must make clearer efforts to resolve the Somali crisis, which, since 1991, has seen thousands of desperate refugees die, initially in the Indian Ocean, and now in the Sicilian Channel.
Those whose names were on the lists of terrorist organisations issued after 11 September must not be consultative partners either for the individual states or for the Union.
The Council, whose decision to create an agency for the common management of borders we welcome, must promote a new cooperation model under which aid serves to benefit the people and those who deny human rights are condemned.
In addition, the Council must ask for mercy for those whom law has condemned to death, like the young Iranian woman who has been condemned to death for killing a man who was raping her. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, European summits are so high-level, they must take place in the stratosphere, because they appear to be light years away from the daily realities of Europe.
I have called upon President Cox to send a European Parliament mission to Lampedusa.
Europe can come to Lampedusa and other places to see, for instance, the work carried out by Italian policemen, and coastguards, whom I have seen in their patrol boats sharing their ration of food and water and often giving it all to these poor wretches at sea, conveyed by foul traffickers to our borders.
Yesterday, the High Representative of one of these African countries was our honoured guest, and we even applauded him.
He is the leader of one of the countries which has yet to ratify, has yet to conclude the readmission agreements which are so necessary and which are the real guarantee of a policy genuinely combating trafficking of illegal immigrants.
Like you, therefore, we hope that the Justice and Home Affairs Council will adhere as far as is possible to the deadline of 2003 for reaching agreement on the Council’s proposals on this very badly needed measure.
That aid must never again be used&#160;–&#160;as, I am sad to say, has happened in the past, and we should be ashamed of it&#160;–&#160;for business or, even worse, as illegal funding for political parties in Italy or other countries, maybe, in Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, there are two issues on which I would like to comment briefly.
That is why the attempt must be made, as regards transparency and the Legislative Council, which the governments see as an irrelevance, but which is for us a significant issue, since the Council is our partner in the legislative process – to get this Legislative Council to really work in a way that brings things into the open and thus to ensure public control.
Whatever the difficulties involved, an open-ended form of words needs to be found for this so as not to exclude the possibility of future developments in this direction.
The efficiency issue is in fact about the Commission, and it would do no damage if it were possible to leave untouched the Convention’s system as it stands today, with the possible addition of voting rights for all.
Let me make a final comment on the Convention.
The United States of America has recently made it clear that they have problems with a European security and defence policy.
I think that the Convention has been very clear in its formulation to the effect that structural cooperation is open to all and is not intended to adversely affect membership of NATO.
We now have to talk not only about the constitution, but also about Europe’s borders.
The federal budget of the United States redistributes more than 30% of its national GDP.
After three years of mild recession, almost all the States need to address the problem of dwindling resources.
Public investments have fallen in the European Union to around one measly percentage point of GDP.
The United States manage 3%.
According to the Commission’s own staff, 1% of investment brings with it growth of 0.6%.
Mr&#160;Berlusconi has just referred to the need to stimulate growth and competitiveness in Europe.
We are now told that concrete decisions will be taken on 12 and 13&#160;December.
My group, Mr President, will judge the Italian Presidency on these concrete decisions.
However, we can see that you are preparing for the adoption of a Constitution which will silence, weaken and condition Europe’s institutions.
Give up the pleasure of, at all costs, signing your name at the bottom of the draft European Constitution which blocks the possibility of future amendment, gives the Commission a degrading role and provides for paralysing unanimous decision-making in the Council.
We would also like you, at least for as long as you are President-in-Office of the European Council, to refrain from underselling Europe’s role in upholding human rights, even when they are attacked by the Americans at Guantánamo or the Russians in Chechnya, for the sake of a weekend at Camp David with President Bush or a trip to Sardinia with President Putin.
The Italian Presidency has been idle and, at all events, has proved incapable of achieving tangible results.
The Italian Presidency must take action.
It is Europe’s duty to act with great determination, formally recognising the existence of the State of Palestine and promoting the presence of a peacekeeping force that can guarantee respect for the borders of the two States and the implementation of the peace agreements.
As regards Iraq, we must demand the immediate withdrawal of the occupying troops. &#160;&#160; – Mr President—in-Office of the Council, it is said that the Union will be based on principles of modern democracy but, nevertheless, it is the governments of the States – in other words the European Council – who will decide on the content of the Constitutional Treaty.
Furthermore, this will be carried out by finding fault with the Convention, which was the nearest thing to a constitutive assembly and which in every way better represented the citizens.
According to democratic principles, sovereignty resides with the people and not with executive governments.
Furthermore, it seems to me incoherent to propose changing the current reference to peoples in Article 1 of the Treaty for a reference to citizens when the constitutions of the States enshrine their respective peoples and when Articles 5 and 8 call for respect for the identity of the Member States. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, most of the statements which have been made here are dominated by the undisputed political importance of the work of the current Intergovernmental Conference (IGC).
Among other things, however, it is also worth reiterating the references to the recovery of the European economy, which, benefiting from the tail end of an improvement in the world economic climate, has managed to implement a raft of key proposals falling under the European Growth Initiative, with the support of the European Investment Bank and the involvement of the private sector, as has already been mentioned here.
This is indeed fundamental to defining policies for controlling migratory flows, and illegal immigration in particular.
At the same time, as you said, Mr&#160;President, one generates conditions under which legal immigrants can be generously welcomed and appropriately integrated into society in our countries.
That is why the Thessaloniki Council treated the Convention as a good basis for discussion and not as a awaiting only the ministerial seal of approval.
In this connection, and by way of conclusion, what is expected of the IGC is that, on finishing its work, it should present the national parliaments and the citizens of the Member States with a revised treaty, one whose basic clauses maintain the principle of institutional balance which has from the beginning permitted the interests and equality of the Member States to remain compatible with the requirements of European integration. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Berlusconi emphasised, a short while ago, and I quote, ‘the historic importance of the constitutional step we are in the process of taking’.
President-in-Office, you mention competitiveness, economic growth and deregulation.
They are all welcome words but they are also well-worn words from past Council statements.
The president has spoken of his commitment to implementation of the financial services action plan, but the reality is that progress on the investment services directive has been frustrated just recently by Member States under this presidency.
But Europe is yet again more comfortable in pressing ahead with constitutional and institutional reform rather than taking practical action which makes a real difference to the day-to-day lives of our constituents.
Yesterday, my party in the UK launched a petition to our parliament demanding it.
The British Prime Minister says the opposite, that he would do nothing to undermine NATO, but this is of course the Prime Minister who assured Britain that the Constitution was nothing more than a 'tidying up exercise'.
France and Belgium continue to want a separate military structure to be created with a new headquarters in Brussels.
Mr Berlusconi, you have again had little to say about the Council’s conclusions on the outcomes of the discussions on judicial and police cooperation.
You kept to yourself your thoughts on the statement in Article 34 of the Conclusions that discussion was needed on specific operations to combat serious crime in Europe and on the need for cooperation in this area.
What, in particular, are you thinking of doing about the introduction of the European arrest warrant?
Our intention in introducing a common arrest warrant was to combat the most serious criminal activity in Europe, and I am not repeating this question just for dramatic effect; rather, I want to remind this House that, just in case the European arrest warrant does not enter into force on 1 January, the European Convention on the mutual rendition of offenders expires on 31 December this year, so that the law will be in a weaker position in 2004.
This report by the Council demonstrates once again that we need to cut back on the administrative burden for industry.
In the Netherlands, the Finance Minister, Gerrit Jan Zalm, set up a website entitled, , which enables businesses to specify on there exactly what is hindering them in their business activities.
I should like to finish off by saying, Mr President, that from your previous visit to this Parliament, I gather that you like a joke, and I therefore assume that your promises to the Ukraine about EU membership are an expression of your original sense of humour.
Surely we should first make a success of the current enlargement, and only then can we think about making new promises. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, whilst there are those who assert that Europe’s governments are steadily dismembering the compromise that the Convention laboriously put together on the constitution, others maintain the legitimacy of their modifying the Convention’s draft.
There is, in any case, no denying the fact that representatives of the national parliaments had a hand in the consensus that the Convent painstakingly hammered out.
It leaves open the question as to how much money the EU will be chipping in towards the TEN projects, as too, though, is the question of whether the Stability Pact supplants the Growth Pact or vice versa.
I would have thought that growth is impossible without stability, for, at the end of the day, today’s debts are tomorrow’s taxes. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I want, in this speech, to focus in the main on the work of the Intergovernmental Conference, which forms, indeed, the centrepiece of the Italian Presidency of the Council, and which we want to encourage the Italian Presidency to complete before the end of this year, that being the only way of ensuring that Europe will continue, post-enlargement, to be capable of taking action, transparent and acceptable to its citizens.
If we have a proper understanding of subsidiarity, the European level has no business dealing with services of general interest, nor with the coordination of social and economic policy.
I do not know what added value there is for Europe in this area, where a bit more subsidiarity and competition among the Member States is more likely to be of benefit to the internal market in terms of the Lisbon objectives being achieved.
If we succeed in resolving these problems as well, we will end up with a Treaty that really does deserve to be supported by people throughout Europe.
The most honourable thing that the Council can do is to assume responsibility as representatives of the people of Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it is only right that the Convention’s draft should come to the conclusion that we have too little Europe rather than too much.
Sweden, Denmark and Finland have shown the ways in which we can do this.
That would be more than these EUR&#160;220 billion for ten years, and would enable us to get something really up and running.
One must simply trust that, as the prime ministers have had more time to reflect upon the outcome of the Convention and upon the poorer quality of their own proposals, they will be drawn closer to accepting the outcome of the Convention and selling it on to their publics.
One issue that concerns me especially is the absence of a clear schedule for consideration of Part III.
The IGC is surely a wonderful chance for us to refresh and modernise the policy chapters, some of which, like the CAP, are 50 years old.
If Part III cannot be properly reformed, the IGC must, at least in Part IV, seek to soften the future revision procedures for Part III. &#160;&#160; Mr President, at the Brussels European Council, Europe’s leaders quite clearly gave up on the idea of setting immigration quotas according to nationality.
We do know, however, most fortunately, that this colonisation of Europe will not take place without the citizens reacting to it in a legitimate, sound and healthy way. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the truth is that the Italian Presidency has not had an easy agenda.
Firstly, the difficult birth of the Constitution.
We are impatiently awaiting the proposals which the Presidency—in-Office is going to make in order to try to overcome the outstanding issues in the second half of November and we are glad that we have been told that these proposals will deal with the problem from a global perspective.
By global, Mr President—in-Office of the Council, I mean a solution which can affect all the institutions, which can achieve the agreement of all the institutions, and also of all the Member States – some of which have announced that they are going to hold a referendum – and of all the new States – which have also held referendums within another context.
The second difficulty faced by the Italian Presidency is how to recover the path of sustainable growth and job creation.
Mr President of the Commission, growth, yes, but also stability.
We are happy with the Commission's proposed growth initiative, according to which infrastructures must play a fundamental role, because it is usually said, Mr President, that when the Europe of infrastructures, the Europe of construction, goes well, the construction of Europe goes well.
Either Europe resolves the problem of infrastructures once and for all or it will have to abandon forever its aspirations to become the most competitive area by 2010.
The final difficulty I wanted to refer to in this speech is that of how to restore relations with the United States following the Iraq crisis and following the events of 11&#160;September.
We now have a wonderful opportunity to express the united view of our European Union project at the coming Conference of Donors because – as I had the opportunity to say yesterday in the debate on the budget – the rehabilitation, reconstruction, pacification and democratisation of Iraq is not a responsibility which should fall exclusively to the United States, but to the international democratic community.
Mr President, I said at the beginning of my speech that the Italian Presidency did not have an easy agenda.
Therefore, Mr President, I would like to wish the Italian Presidency luck and success in the decisive months remaining to it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would firstly like to say that Catalonia, where I come from, together with Aragon, Roussillon and the neighbouring areas, are still suffering from the lack of will or ill-will demonstrated by the Spanish and French Governments and other authorities responsible for developing infrastructures which would allow the Pyrenean border to be eliminated.
I hope that President Prodi's announcement of an increase of 30% in the funding of cross-border sections of the European networks will help governments to act in accordance with the conclusions of the Council which they themselves sign.
The development of a free Europe without borders is one side of the coin; on the other side are the management of external borders and movement of people.
A legislative programme and coherent and clear political action which make it more attractive to go to a consulate than to put out to sea have been on the table for years, just as we have a European programme for offering justice and security to European citizens on the basis of cooperation between Member States, the cornerstone of which is the European arrest warrant.
President Berlusconi, you had an opportunity to put a stop to these meaningless resolutions from the summits, and I regret that you did not take it.
I believe it is important for the summits to be fundamentally reformed so that people regain their confidence in the EU and its institutions.
President Berlusconi, you emphasised Christian values in your speech.
To the wave of 528 immigrants who a few days ago landed on the Andalusian coasts and in the Canary Islands, we must also add the approximately 70 who, it appears, have died trying to reach the coasts of Sicily.
It is very possible, moreover, that today or tomorrow we will continue to add to this doleful list.
The second message is that the European Union, as such, cannot deal with common immigration and asylum policies unless the agreements which the Member States adopt, either in interesting meetings such as the one that took place in La Baule, which may lead to the beginning of strengthened cooperation in this field, or in the meetings of the Council of Ministers, are not then reflected in cooperative policies which lead to the burdens and responsibilities being shared, both from an economic point of view, and in terms of human and material resources.
I believe, therefore, that we need also to provide, for example, for the need to create a European fund for the repatriation of illegal immigrants.
Equally, within the framework of these agreements, the Commission and the Council should appeal firmly and insistently to countries which, as in the case of Morocco or Tunisia, are the origin of the tragic events I have referred to. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Berlusconi’s appearances in this House are remarkable in many ways.
Today, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have managed to speak for 19 minutes and 39 seconds, in which time you have had a great deal to say about economic growth, competitiveness, innovation, industrial policy, then back to increased competitiveness and to foreign policy.
What the Lisbon process means is that the European Union’s policies must, of course, enable it to compete, whilst always taking account of considerations of the environment and of sustainability.
This was a great surprise – certainly one of last week’s surprising moments – not only for me, but also many of your fellow-members of the Council.
I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Berlusconi, whether you are aware that environmental policy is not just something that we do because we are good or perhaps because we want to try and do things in an ecological way; but rather that we do it because it makes our industry competitive and because it enables us to pass on our planet and our immediate environment to our children, and perhaps because it enables us to maintain the good living conditions that we enjoy.
When you last appeared before this House, I asked you whether you intended to apply your strength and somewhat more energy to advancing the European Union’s environmental measures.
It is a fact that there is something wrong in our analyses, something that is wrong somewhere.
At the same time, we have a situation in Europe where inflation levels are essentially under control; the energy prices are, I would say, fairly stable and financial market conditions are not negative.
And economic recovery depends on series of factors which can only come into play in a European context.
It is true that we are reinterpreting a Keynesian model readjusted to present times, but in this Keynesian model we need to speed up structural reforms.
The Brussels proposals are tangible and interesting.
We have learned that politics is a job which must produce daily results, and that it is built on the basis of daily efforts and daily work.
This is the central idea of most of the attempts to change the outcome of the Convention.
Some want to maintain veto rights, while others want to reduce the blocking minority and yet others want to structure the Commission in such a way that all objections related to the Council decision-making process return to the Commission.
After all, we are the direct representatives of the European citizens.
The Commission and the Council have now proposed the establishment of a new agency, but the question arises of where it is to be located.
My second comment has to do with repatriation policy.
If you want to put together credible policies on asylum and legal immigration, you have to combat illegal immigration and the abuse of asylum, and so you need a common repatriation policy as well.
I would encourage you, then, in future, to conclude repatriation agreements not only with states like Macao, but also, in fact, with the states from which we can expect the most migrants.
Let me make an exception here, and quote from an author – Amos Oz, an Israel writer who has this to say in a commentary on these Geneva Accords: ‘Ever since the Six Day War, we are as close to the Palestinians as a jailer is to the prisoner handcuffed to him.
A jailer cuffing his wrist to that of a prisoner for an hour or two is a matter of routine.
The last few days, though, have also shown that the conflict in Palestine and the situation in Iraq are even more closely connected than we, in this House, had repeatedly claimed them to be.
Iraq belongs to the Iraqi people, and it must be made apparent, unambiguously and relatively quickly, that the European Union wants to implement this principle and put it into practice.
Agreements can be reached without war, they can be reached by peaceful means, they can be reached by negotiating with countries that put up resistance, and we should rejoice that this important agreement with Iran now appears to have been concluded. &#160;&#160; Mr President, during the Convention proceedings, the pessimists predicted a negative outcome, at best a delay which would have jeopardised the objective of giving the new Europe its first Constitution in a short space of time.
Instead, we all know the way things turned out: in the end politics prevailed, the sense of responsibility prevailed and Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, despite the initial criticisms, achieved the objective.
No one believes that it will all be easy, but I am convinced that in the end, as in the case of the Convention, the European interest will prevail.
This is why I am optimistic, this is why I am convinced that this Presidency will make Europe take significant steps forward.
I am convinced that this Presidency, therefore, will attain the objectives which it has set itself: Europe will have, before the next European elections, its first Constitutional Treaty, fruit of the valuable work of the Convention and also fruit of Parliament’s work.
Parliament’s active participation in the proceedings of the Intergovernmental Conference is an extremely positive result, and this choice is proof of the fact that the Italian Presidency has maintained its promises made in this Chamber.
I cannot fail to stress the importance of reference to our Judeo-Christian roots in the preamble to the Constitution.
It is not, Mr Barón Crespo, a question of a monopoly, but quite the opposite; it is that we must not dismiss the contribution that Christianity has made to the moral and social growth and development of this continent.
Carry on with the decisions concerning Lisbon too: without a serious reform of welfare systems our young citizens will not be offered any hope.
With regard to the European arrest warrant, as is just as well known – it is in the Italian press – the draft law to modify Italian regulations in line with the prearranged framework-decision at European level has already been tabled to the Council of Ministers and will be discussed soon, before being submitted to Parliament for adoption by 31 December this year.
We have made careful note of all the speeches; we will take them into account during the 50 working days which we still have before the European Council in mid-December.
There have been remarks from many quarters regarding the achievements and work of this Presidency.
Therefore, in terms of actual working time, for a Presidency with this mandate during the second half of the year, four months are left.
This means that we must look closely at the proposal in the draft Constitutional Treaty which provides for presidencies lasting two and a half years, with the possibility of renewal.
The hope is that it will be possible to find an influential President, who can represent our Union on the international stage with authority, and who also has the necessary time, maybe, to manage the rotating systems according to which the European Council operates, which of course cannot be done in too short a space of time.
Just to try to explain how many things a Presidency has to do, I will tell you what we have done: we have held over 42 meetings with government representatives of Community countries and candidate countries; we have ended several old disputes which no previous Presidency had resolved; we have chaired 26 Ministerial Council meetings, along with all the work also required from the President-in-Office personally in preparing for these European Councils in the various sectors and in coordinating the Councils themselves; we have adopted 17 regulations and directives; we have concluded three conciliation procedures with the European Parliament, which had been ongoing for some time; we have concluded or signed seven international agreements; we have begun the technical review of the texts adopted by the Convention – all of this involves numerous sittings, and almost always at night, what is more, for the President-in-Office; we have held eight Association and Cooperation Councils, including Armenia, Georgia, Jordan, Tunisia and so on; we have had 10 summits and troikas, and moreover, this very week I am going to China; we have held 30 COREPER meetings, along with all the preparatory meetings; we have had 15 working meetings with representatives of the United States, Russia, the Balkans, Latin America and other countries; lastly, we have held over 800 Council working group meetings.
I am too old, Mr Schulz, for this kind of thing; but thank you anyway.
It will be my job to contact, on a bilateral basis, the relevant persons in the different countries in order to discuss it probably at an informal meeting of the European Council, between 15 and 30 November and, at last, have the final proposal ready in mid-December.
One thing, of course, is clear, and that is that Europe and its citizens expect a high quality Constitutional Treaty; that is, an end product equal to the challenges to which we will increasingly be required to respond.
In December, when the Presidency’s global proposal has been considered, expanded on and discussed, the time to decide will come.
We will ask everyone to endorse, with clear and transparent responsibility, a complete constituent draft which, I repeat, must be high and noble.
This integration is a decisive factor in meeting the challenge of making Europe capable of taking a leading part on the international stage, capable of facing, with dignity, any other international power on equal terms, capable not only of strengthening the democracy, freedom, well-being and security of its citizens but also of disseminating these resources throughout the world.
It is worthwhile considering this very point because we have all made a commitment, again recently with the Millennium Declaration, to give food, water, heath and education to those in the world who do not have them.
I believe that when assessing – as I have been doing during recent days and nights – the final articles of the Constitutional Treaty, we must be clear that this Treaty will be in force for our fellow citizens for the next 10, 20 years, and that it must give our Union, as the seat of the most ancient civilisation, as a group of states and citizens which identify with a common heritage of values, principles, cultures and civilisation, the chance to be a protagonist in the world, to carry out, together with other countries and not in conflict with other countries, the duty of exporting to the world precisely that important resource of freedom and democracy, which alone can guarantee well-being for the people, which alone can effectively guarantee a truly peaceful future for the whole world.
We shall abide by the draft Constitutional Treaty.
As far as the environmental dimension is concerned, I would point out that paragraph 24 of the Conclusions includes the environmental dimension in the growth process as a factor which will work as a catalyst for innovation and modernisation in key sectors such as energy and transport.
In conclusion, I would like to remind you that, in effect, we have already obtained tangible results, and this gives us hope for the further deliberations of the Intergovernmental Conference.
We have obtained results in an area where there were seemingly insurmountable divisions: European defence.
The work of this European Council – which will take tangible form in the Council’s work in December – has given rise to the realisation by all the countries of the European Union, including the 10 new countries which are joining us, that there can be no true European Union foreign policy which carries weight, which is authoritative, if we are not backed up by an independent European defence force.
Firstly, that this cooperation is open at all times to all Member States of the European Union which wish to participate in it; secondly, that the criteria and rules according to which this cooperation is set in motion do not stem from a decision made by the States which initially establish this cooperation, but are approved by the European Council.
Turning to the issues that we must touch on, I would like to make some very simple observations.
I would like to clarify once again that the draft Convention already includes one Commissioner per Member State.
I was a little surprised, I must say, when he came out in favour of a referendum in each Member State, because I thought that he agreed with the principle of subsidiarity, whereby each country chooses the method with which to adopt their Constitution.
I know full well that it sounds too good to be true, but there are times in history when a decision of this kind is sufficient to change the face and life of our institutions.
The quality of investments was raised, and I would like to clarify that the quick-start list is not going to create priorities and exclusions.
Confidence, Mrs&#160;Frassoni, also and above all means social and environmental sustainability, in line with the policies of the Commission, which, over recent months, let us not forget, has sought to establish itself in the highly sensitive area of energy policy, dedicating a large part of our resources to research into hydrogen and alternative energies.
However, we want to be, as we were for Kyoto, because we know full well that, as the European Union, we have to shoulder a responsibility which is distinct from the responsibility shouldered by the individual countries, the individual nations.
Without making simplistic judgments, I can say that, if a case of this kind happened within the European Union, it would probably be considered under the scope of the procedure laid down by Article 7.
Today, however, we must also recognise that detainees in the Member States are detained precisely in the Member States, and we must make it clear in practical terms that we expect these citizens’ rights to be vigorously defended by the authority of their States.
It is clear that this is a Palestinian and Israeli process, not a process conducted by the world powers relating to Israel and the Palestinians; it is from these quarters that we are awaiting a message that will enable us to achieve peace in the Middle East together.
We have already taken two major steps forward: cooperation on policing – which really is a step forward – and the agency to coordinate our action.
This is a means of internal defence, but we need an initiative to manage and keep the immigrants in their countries of origin.
I would call it an agreement with these countries to guarantee them a minimum emigration level so that they help us to protect our borders.
We should remember this: initially soft, passive defence, and then an active agreement with these countries.
Together, we must, by applying the lessons of Lisbon to this new situation, give Europe the impetus it needs.
The fundamentals of our economy are strong, and are much stronger than those of other economies which are currently lecturing us and telling us how to proceed.
It is unacceptable to continue giving priority to enhancing the competitiveness of businesses on the basis of further liberalisation and privatisation, further pay cuts and flexibility, instead of solving the problems of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion.
I wish them a productive stay in Strasbourg.(1) &#160;&#160; I would like to inform you of something which our President said at the opening of proceedings this morning, when, however, not all the MEPs were present in the Chamber.
The channels are 12 for Czech, 13 for Hungarian and 14 for Polish.(1) We shall now proceed to the vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am requesting the floor for a few minutes to ask for the assistance of the Presidency and to explain the clearly irregular situation which has arisen in this report.
An amendment by my group, voted for by the immense majority of the committee, has surprisingly disappeared from the text being voted on today.
That amendment called for the recognition of the right to asylum for women who suffer serious persecution and violations of their human rights.
I would like to ask that this be removed from the agenda and deferred until the next part-session in Brussels.
Framework Directive&#160;89/107/EEC, on food additives, provides for the adoption of specific directives with a view to harmonising the use of different categories of additives in foodstuffs.
I therefore support the European Parliament’s two main proposals.
The proposal that the Commission draw up a report outlining the progress made in the re-evaluations of all additives within two years of the entry into force of this Directive should be welcomed, as should the measure designed to avoid the abuse of temporary exemptions for products which do not comply with this legislation.
Previous directives put in place a requirement for all Community vehicles to be insured against civil liability, for valid insurance certificates to be awarded in all the Member States, for compulsory cover for all vehicle passengers, the establishment of guarantee funds, and the famous Green Card.
Now, as rapporteur, he is proposing in his Amendment No 15 to exclude pedestrians and cyclists from bodily injury cover in the drivers' legal liability insurance, irrespective of whether the driver is at fault.
If we were to reject this component, we would need to wait and see whether the Commission were ever to table this separate proposal.
This new proposal for a fifth Directive on motor vehicle insurance aims to amend the existing directives by plugging gaps and solving the practical problems facing the citizens of the Member States.
Indeed, insurance premiums covering temporary stays in another Member State and short-term insurance covering vehicles bought outside their owners’ Member State of residence are legal mechanisms which the Community did not tackle in the past, as were the updating of existing provisions on the amount of minimum cover which motorists should enjoy and increased protection for pedestrians and cyclists involved in accidents.
On another matter, one of the most important aspects of this report concerns resetting the minimum levels of guarantees for personal injury and damage to property, in the context of the wider trend to promote victims’ rights.
The recognition of every Member State’s right to demand that drivers of certain types of vehicles (trailers, agricultural machinery, and so forth) produce valid proof of insurance cover while driving such a vehicle on their territory also deserves my support. &#160;&#160; Unlike the Commission, the European Parliament pronounces itself in favour of compensation based upon each accident rather than upon each injured person.
It is, unfortunately, an unavoidable fact that the European Community is working towards the establishment of a common judicial area.
The formal adoption of this regulation can only take place, however, when a decision is adopted authorising the Member States to ratify the Hague Convention of 1996, in the interest of the Community.
Its aim is to authorise the Member States to ratify or accede to that Convention in respect of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children (the Community cannot become a party to the Hague Convention).
It is incumbent on the Member States, therefore, to take the necessary steps to enable the Community to become a member.
That will make a real contribution to strengthening Community law on child protection.
I do not, however, have any truck with the federalist thinking underpinning this report.
In fact, it aims to authorise the Member States to ratify or accede to the Hague Convention in the interest of the European Union, thereby overcoming the technical problem that only sovereign states may be parties to that Convention.
The significance of this is that the Hague Convention relates to jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in respect of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children, and has already been the main inspiration for the future Council regulation on parental responsibility, which the Council is still debating.
The European Union is working towards establishing a common judicial area founded on the principle of the mutual recognition of judicial decisions.
We have a duty to protect our children, who are tomorrow’s adult citizens.
Secondly, the need for enlargement not to work against the development potential of the regions of the existing 15 Member States of the Union.
I would nevertheless like to draw attention to two points on which the rapporteur’s approach differs from mine, and which led me to table two draft amendments for which I request the support of this House.
The amendments are: - Amendment to paragraph&#160;23 of the motion for a resolution: I would like to reiterate the great importance of mentioning the principle of legitimate expectation, in relation to the eligibility of advances granted by Member States to final beneficiaries and their inclusion in reimbursement claims received before 31&#160;December&#160;2002.
These funds constitute a system for the redistribution of wealth via the Community budget with a view to reducing the disparities in development among the Member States and increasing economic and social cohesion.
This is due, in large part, to two factors.
The European Commission, therefore, needs to deal with these matters more thoroughly and consider making more ambitious changes to procedures, combating the late approval and implementation of the programmes and the unreliable nature of the financial forecasts.
In accordance with the aims of the Lisbon strategy of 2000, the effectiveness of the Structural Funds must be enhanced, and, in particular, coordination between the various departments of the Community, national and regional administrations must be improved.
As proposed in the report, it is very important to find a balance between desirable simplification measures and the controls required in order to achieve economic and social cohesion, bearing in mind the current challenge of enlargement as well.
This would improve coordination between the various departments of the Community, national and regional administrations involved.
It takes as its starting point the dramatic events of the Iraq war and the effect that had on the European Union’s internal cohesion, on transatlantic relations and also on the state of affairs within the United Nations and NATO, as well as on the international order as a whole.
What now matters, in our view, is that we see the crisis associated with the war in Iraq as an opportunity, and accept the challenge of establishing Europe, once and for all, as a foreign policy actor of substance.
Europe must cease to be an observer in global policy matters and become a participant.
The constitutional convention created the institutional framework within which it can do so by creating the position of European Foreign Minister, by making enhanced cooperation possible in the defence sphere and also by establishing the European armaments agency.
The second is that a European security strategy must counterpose to the narrowly military focus in current thinking by the American administration a comprehensive approach to security that includes political, economic, social and inter-cultural efforts to mitigate and resolve conflicts.
Thirdly, a European security doctrine can be developed only on the basis of effective multilateralism and within the UN system, this being in line with the historic experiences and political interests of its Member States.
Although transatlantic relations still have pride of place among them, Europe will carry equal weight as a partner for the USA only as and when the Member States summon up the political will to make their own specifically national interests subject to those of the Community.
We will also be able to strengthen such organisations as the UN or NATO only if Europe and the USA speak with one voice.
There is no doubt that Europe will continue to be committed to the Western Balkans and in Afghanistan, whatever the many problems that are evident in both of them, and even though we cannot but be openly pessimistic about our chances of success when it comes to properly building an acceptable state in the latter.
With enlargement, the Union’s external borders are being drawn ever closer to the crisis areas to the east and south-east.
It is of the utmost importance that security zones be established around Europe, and that an effective neighbourhood policy be developed; our deliberations should therefore focus much more on such ideas as a ‘European Economic Area Plus’ and others of the kind, as well as on consideration of the particular ways in which the Mediterranean region can be further stabilised.
Finally, I would like to explain our criticisms of the Council’s annual report.
Such a report is no use when it comes to conducting dialogue between Parliament and the Council.
It is for that reason that we ask that the High Representative should continue, in future, to provide us with a written report on the progress made in putting Europe’s security principles into practice.
Quite the opposite, in fact: the ill ease felt by Member States about the divisions created by the Iraq crisis and the commitment that we have made to overcoming the existing deadlock have demonstrated, if anything, the extent to which all of us in Europe are firmly committed to a common foreign policy.
If we are unable to find institutional solutions, there is a risk that the deadlock situations we have experienced will recur.
My third point concerns the role of the Union on the world stage.
It is important to recognise that the Union's record in the field of foreign policy is a positive one, and the&#160;Brok report confirms this.
I shall restrict myself to mentioning the progress made in establishing a European military capacity and our initial experiences with this both in conjunction with NATO – an example of this being the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia – and also acting on our own, as in the case of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
I would also like to mention the Union’s contribution to stabilising the Balkans and to the process of both economic and democratic reconstruction of the countries in that region.
I would further remind you about the support given to the United Nations at a point when the role of that organisation was being called into question.
I would also like to mention the significant action taken by the Union and its Member States in response to the global challenges we face today: combating terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
I have just mentioned a few important areas by way of example, to demonstrate that we have, in a number of cases, succeeded in following words and commitments with deeds.
The Council of Ministers is aware of this, and we are working towards solutions in two areas: institutional effectiveness and the clear, precise setting of strategic priorities.
As regards institutional effectiveness – which President Berlusconi has already talked about here in this Chamber today – I can confirm that, in the Intergovernmental Conference, we will be defending the framework presented by the Convention, without any backsliding, as a good basis for the work of the IGC.
With regard to the second area, strategy, as you know, the European Council scheduled for December 2003 will be called upon to adopt a document that will include the Union's security strategy.
It is an ambitious text that will provide a framework for all the interest and commitment invested in our Common Foreign and Security Policy.
The strategy will outline the threats currently facing the European Union, but it also needs to identify those areas on whose stability our security depends.
That is why the Italian Presidency is anxious to foster fruitful cooperation between our common foreign policy and the activities of international organisations active in the field of security.
I have in mind, first and foremost, NATO and the OSCE, but what is absolutely vital for us is the role of the United Nations.
On 24&#160;September, the Italian Presidency and the UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, signed a UN-EU joint declaration in New York as a basis for cooperation in both military and civilian areas of crisis management.
Prevention is therefore becoming a key component in the Union's external relations.
This derives from and is characterised by the coordinated use of both the resources of the Member States, which are made available in the common interest, and the Union's own resources, which are managed by the European Commission.
In particular, I would like to mention the Western Balkans, a sensitive region that deserves special attention.
We are endeavouring to step up our cooperation activities in respect of that region, and also in respect of the southern shore of the Mediterranean, and, let me remind you, in respect of the Latin American subcontinent.
On the same subject, I would like to point out that the benefit of establishing treaty relations with the European Union is, in fact, one of the main incentives for regional groupings.
Although I have mentioned the Balkans and the Mediterranean region, I wish to emphasise that the difficulties still prevailing in the Middle East have not weakened our resolve: the Union can and must make an important contribution to identifying a peaceful solution and to international guarantees for peace.
The Presidency, the High Representative and the Commission are constantly striving to achieve this outcome, and they were encouraged by the final conclusions of last week's European Council.
The Council also confirmed the Union's stance on two other international issues currently of vital importance: Iraq, where the Union is committed to contributing to the reconstruction effort, and Iran, which we have very actively encouraged to take the decisive step of complying with all the International Atomic Energy Agency's requirements.
I have in mind our good-neighbour policy towards Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, and slightly further east, the Russian Federation, which I shall return to this afternoon when we discuss the forthcoming Rome Summit on 6 November.
It is evident that all the Member States continue to attach great importance to relations with the United States.
The renewal of this relationship has been confirmed by the recent, hard-won decisions taken within the United Nations.
I am convinced this is the case, because Euro-Atlantic relations are nourished by a common history, by an enormous indebtedness in terms of liberation and liberty – particularly for us Italians – and also by shared values and ideals and by common action reflected in the CFSP.
Our common commitment in the Balkans, combating terrorism and combating proliferation: these are examples and evidence of common action.
The first area is to develop the political will to achieve integration, the hallmark of which will increasingly be foreign policy and the common European defence policy.
The second area is a strategy for the Union's external activities, to be based on the document we shall be presenting by December.
The third area relates to appropriate and effective decision-making mechanisms.
The fourth and final area is that of resources.
We must provide ourselves with the necessary resources to achieve the foreign policy we need.
We have limited budgetary provisions for financing the CFSP, and although we had a small increase in 2003, we certainly need to do a great deal more.
We all know that the present institutional arrangements supporting and providing the infrastructure for CFSP are, to use a common term of art in the European Union, 'sub-optimal'.
And we all know that changes in institutional arrangements, the sort of changes proposed in the Convention and being discussed in the IGC, can help to create political will to make things happen more effectively.
If we want to have a more effective international impact, if we want to be seen by the United States as people who are pulling our weight in the security field, we have to face up to the fact that we need to do more and we need to spend more.
Therefore we have to tackle the present gap between the discussion on institutional arrangements and the discussion both on political will and on resources.
Second, I should like to mention security and the definition of security.
We all know that security needs to be defined in much broader terms than has been conventional in foreign policy debate.
One of the great bonuses of the draft security strategy which the High Representative has brought forward is that it demonstrates that security is about more than precision-guided munitions and airlift capacity.
It is about issues from public health and disease to terrorism, to organised crime, all the issues where we in the European Union actually have the competence to develop a more coherent, comprehensive external relations policy than is possible in a lot of Member States and in a lot of nation-states.
It is very important in my view, therefore, that when we come to construct a joint external service, we make sure that we combine the strengths of both Pillar I and Pillar II in the management and implementation of CFSP.
The third point I want to make is about the importance of the transatlantic partnership.
I think we will be committing over the next months more in Iraq than we did on that occasion.
I think it is far more important for us to be going to Madrid supporting the efforts of reconstruction with a serious contribution rather than a contribution which is merely a political reaction.
I think what we have seen happen in the last 24 hours in Iran is a good example of effective multilateralism.
We have embarked on a policy in Iran of tough-minded but constructive engagement.
We have strong views about the human rights situation in Iraq.
But we have been prepared to hold out a hand of friendship to Iran, recognising that it is a great pre-Islamic civilisation.
I hope that we will see this sort of combined effort more often, using both the resources that can be provided by Member States and the resources that we have agreed to share in common and the competencies that we have agreed to share.
I certainly think that the issues that we have to deal with on the international stage are far too serious for that, as is made clear in this excellent report. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow on from Commissioner Patten’s opening remarks in which he thought aloud about such things as Interinstitutional Agreements and political will and underlined their importance.
This is why the opinion of the Committee on Budgets reflected its particular interest in the question that the President-in-Office of the Council raised at the end of his speech, that of how we handle the European Union’s budget, and of how things stand as regards Parliament’s right to be informed – not as a purely technical question, but because we need these debates on political priorities.
I am grateful to you for your undertaking to make these items of information available to Parliament.
In matters of external relations, Parliament, as an institution, always tends to support the Commission in its work, and also tends to be willing to provide more money.
Indeed, the Commission even managed to produce a document on the European Union’s relationship with the United Nations that made no reference whatever to Parliament as the budgetary authority.
In our relations with the United Nations, too, we need to set political priorities, and these need to be discussed by the Council and Parliament in their respective budget procedures.
This is a very topical subject, now that, as the President-in-Office of the Council has said, with the return of 10 countries into the European fold the Union is being enlarged in a way that was inconceivable and unhoped for just a few years ago.
The Brok report – as my colleague has just said – provides an excellent assessment of the Council's annual report, which contains nothing more than a simple balance sheet devoid of any in-depth political analysis and scarcely identifies any priorities.
The only issue is to what extent our interests coincide with those of others, and how often they are in parallel.
If we use the security concept that Commissioner Patten has again put before us today – which would be only right and proper – we will see how we are well able to take other regions’ aspirations into account when properly defending our interests.
That is in our interests but also in the interests of these people, in that we are giving them the chance of a prosperous life in their own country, from which they will not need to escape.
The Americans are, of course, our privileged partners, but we still need to strengthen and develop our relations with other regions such as Russia, China, and India, if we are to cultivate this partnership in an appropriate way.
Anyone who – like our group as a whole – wants the United Nations to come into its own, anyone who fully supports the multilateral approach, must also press for the United Nations to be reformed in such a way as to make it more effective whilst remaining representative.
All those in this group who opposed the USA’s intervention in Iraq must nevertheless acknowledge that it was also – and I emphasise also – due to the failure by the whole structure of the modern-day United Nations that things got to such a pass, and that we did not make a multilateral attempt at regime change in Iraq at an earlier stage, which would have been the right time to do it.
I would particularly like to extend warm thanks to the Commissioner for the policy in the Balkans.
It also means, however, that Europe has to take up its own responsibilities.
If we are prepared to take up our own responsibilities in our own back yard, then we can achieve success. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, today’s good news is that the UN General Assembly has, by a very large majority, adopted a resolution demanding that Israel stop erecting the so-called security wall.
The resolution even demands that those parts of the wall that have already been built should be torn down.
Today’s bad news is that, in spite of the UN decision, Israel is continuing to build the wall.
In the report we are debating, the European Parliament regards the bringing of peace to the Middle East as the most important task to be shared with the United States, together with Russia and the UN.
It is a very concise report, but not a short one, and I only have a short time in which to mention some of the points I think important.
The increased tensions in relations between China and North Korea is cause for concern, but what is more worrying is, of course, the fact that North Korea will not phase out its nuclear weapons programme.
The Taiwan issue must also be mentioned in this context.
Taiwan is both democratic and peaceful, but the Taiwanese cannot live in the same manner as people in other free, democratic countries, given the way its neighbour is behaving.
The second problem is that the report explicitly highlights the need to build up military capabilities, despite the European concentration on civil approaches to conflict prevention.
That we are at last making a start on a serious debate about the European Union’s security strategy is something that I very much welcome, but it is lamentable that this debate is still, on the whole, an internal affair in which the general public are not involved.
I call upon the Council and the Commission to involve Parliament in the debate more than it has been so far, rather than confronting us with ready-made concepts. &#160;&#160; Mr President, according to my group, a crucial element in the Brok report is the realisation that the European Union is, and should be, an important player on the world stage.
However, if that is what the European Union does, it should do so in a way that is different from the United States.
These are, and remain, the core elements of common foreign policy.
The European Union should be capable of doing more than it is doing at the moment, but it should be capable of doing something other than the United States.
This means, for example, that the first priority should be, as is stated in the report, to build our own rapid intervention force and not to focus on a NATO Rapid Response Force.
Anyone following the discussion in the media could be forgiven for thinking that the essence of the discussion between the EU and NATO was about headquarters.
This means that parliamentary democratic control should form part of this vision.
We can talk as much as we like about any vision whatsoever, but, if there is no Parliamentary monitoring in place, and if finances are the only concern from start to finish, then this vision will not become reality. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in my country, you sometimes hear the useful warning never to throw out your old shoes until you have replaced them with new ones.
This common admonition seems to be very relevant in the case of Europe's security.
In short, I would prefer NATO to look after our security in Europe, and – within the NATO context – to let the EU Member States finally show what they are worth as loyal allies. &#160;&#160; Mr President, following the collapse of Communist dictatorships in the former Eastern bloc, the world has not exactly become a safer place.
As has rightly been pointed out, terrorism, weapons of mass destruction and badly governed states are Europe's three most important threats.
Europe must therefore provide an efficient and well-developed security and defence system.
I am glad of one thing that he makes clear in it, namely that it is not enough for us to produce a European security strategy as a constructive response to that of the United States; on the contrary, we must also show how it is to be achieved.
Then the proposal was made for a European armaments agency to combine our capacities, and our friends and allies on the other side of the Atlantic objected to that.
There is one thing that we have to make clear here: on the one hand, our friends demand that we should develop our capacities and abilities to play a greater global security role and to make our contribution in this area.
The rapporteur reminds us of the chasms that have been thrown up between the Member States of the European Union, which have severely strained transatlantic relations and which have affected different NATO members to varying degrees.
Of course, the means of achieving this objective are still relatively ill-defined: some new Member States and their neighbours have, yet again, discovered America and its promises of political and economic guarantees.
For this reason, it is advisable not to forget Member States' duty to refrain from intervening in international affairs on the basis of unilateral national positions until the European Union has had an opportunity to define a common European position.
I do not, of course, have time to go into all this in greater depth, but the future of our foreign policy is linked to the European Constitution; the veto can wreck the most ambitious peace plans, as we have heard this morning.
EU operations in Bosnia, Macedonia and eastern Africa have shown that Europe has a geopolitical responsibility.
As the Brok report also clearly indicates, our own European headquarters are a for independent and efficient European defence.
Only then can we shatter the image of Europe as an economic giant, but a political dwarf and a worm in military terms. &#160;&#160; I am convinced that this is the EU’s big chance to play a positive role in promoting world peace and to give up trying to be a poor man’s United States, with its militarism and philosophy of violence.
Instead, the EU should develop an alternative non-violent peace policy.
The European Parliament should also strongly support the promising talks now under way between the Beijing Government and the representatives of the Dalai Lama.
I therefore know that both Beijing and the Dalai Lama would welcome a strong initiative from the EU on this issue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, here we have another Brok report, still taking its inspiration from the same principles, still driven by the same desire, which is to construct a common foreign policy.
They reveal an entire blueprint for the world and, I would even say, a genuine fear of the world.
In short, the Brok report views the CFSP too much in terms of constructing a unified entity, whereas it should really be seen in terms of variable geometry and of the synergy of national policies.
One could make the same reproach, although to a lesser degree, of the draft constitution currently being examined by the IGC.
The document has positive things to say on the wider Europe debate and new neighbours and, in particular, on the need to acknowledge the potential for full EU membership in future for those neighbours which are clearly European, namely Ukraine, Moldova and Belarus.
However, I am less convinced of the need for an EU foreign minister or armaments agency and found the mini-defence union proposals of Belgium, France, Luxembourg and Germany purely a piece of post-Gulf war anti-American posturing, which undermines NATO and is laughable without UK military participation.
I also have problems with including the ESDP in the Community budget, as defence policy is ultimately a marker of national sovereignty and can mean people dying for their country.
Besides, most of these countries are not true and fully functioning democracies with properly elected parliaments. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, implementing the EU’s common foreign and security policy will mean having to go from words to deeds.
The Intergovernmental Conference now going on will have to create structures that will make effective decision-making and action possible.
Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union, Javier Solana, deserves our support while he frames a strategy on which the Union’s foreign and security policy will be based.
The Commission proposal on the new neighbourhood policy is currently being debated by Parliament.
The proposals for a common foreign and security policy being discussed by the IGC are a logical extension of the decisions reached at the Helsinki Summit on improving the EU’s crisis management capabilities.
It has to be said, however, that we are still a long way from a situation where the EU could offer its Member States guarantees of military security.
There is no need to take a negative view of the fact that some Member States are making faster progress in the area of defence cooperation than others.
At the same time we have to insist that strengthened cooperation should be open to everyone.
In the wake of the disagreements over the Iraq war we now must look ahead. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Patten, I would like to restrict my observations to our relations with China.
My group endorses the view put forward by the Commission in its excellent policy paper on the new relationship between the EU and China; we are also very grateful to the Council for having made its position clear as long ago as 13 October.
Whilst we believe that the People’s Republic of China is a significant strategic partner for the European Union and that both sides should be committed to building up relations between them, we share the Council’s concern that the current human rights situation in China, especially where fundamental civil, cultural and political freedoms are concerned, still does not meet the international standards that China itself acknowledges.
Like the Council, then, we call for serious dialogue to be commenced between central China and the representatives of the Dalai Lama.
Parliament’s great interest in having closer relations with Taiwan, including in a multilateral framework, is a matter of record.
Racial prejudice undermines security and should play no part in our security policy.
There is the need to strengthen transatlantic relations, to build EU defence capabilities in the context of reinforced cooperation between the EU and NATO and clear advocacy of the principle of multilateralism in international relations.
In paragraph 8, is West Africa really more vital to the EU's interests than Central or southern Africa?
Cannot European diplomacy be as important in resolving potential nuclear conflict between India and Pakistan, as it is – we all dearly hope – in making progress in the Middle East peace process.
If we had the time, I could give you many further examples.
An assembly is a place of debate and discussion and, if necessary, of decision-making.
Parliamentary time essentially extends over a long period whereas foreign policy must be conducted on a daily basis.
Incidentally, Parliament is also, sometimes, a place of conflict between groups of necessarily differing opinions.
We also note that, in all democratic countries, the role of national parliaments in foreign policy follows particular rules.
I shall conclude by saying that, as regards the CFSP, I do not believe it would be a good idea to call for equal rights with the other EU institutions.
Just as Europe managed to provide itself with institutions capable of embodying its collective destiny, the war in Iraq laid bare the immense distance still to be travelled.
We cannot accept that European integration will contain two distinct and separate essences: an economic one which embraces integration, and a political one, in the stark, traditional sense, which clashes with it.
This dichotomy does not really exist and has no part in the nature of European integration.
If the question were put to them, the citizens of Europe would come out overwhelmingly in favour of common foreign and security policies.
They may all dream of Immanuel&#160;Kant’s plan for perpetual peace, but they know that the road is hard and that, historically, naïve optimism has a high price. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful that the report emphasises the importance of equilibrium and democratic government in our neighbouring regions.
The way we approach international problems has to be in the form of civil crisis management. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I agree with the report’s analysis of the situation following the Iraq war, but not with all the conclusions.
It is true that new threats and security risks must be combated, above all, by means of political strategies with a view to fighting poverty, protecting human rights and promoting democracy.
That, in turn, requires efforts to discover conflicts in time and resolve them by political, diplomatic and economic means.
Peace-making operations, as discussed in paragraph 34, are measures in accordance with Article&#160;7 of the UN Charter, that is to say direct military measures, and may only be taken following decisions by the UN Security Council.
That is especially important for Sweden and other neutral countries. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
We believe it is in our interest to encourage the reform process begun by the Russian Federation and its move towards closer relations with the European Union.
There are probably forces still operating within the Russian Federation which, perhaps furtively&#160;–&#160;so to speak – oppose this progressive integration of the Federation into European structures; but on the other hand such integration is an objective that President Putin strongly shares.
This approach, which we support, forms a basis for the work to be done at the forthcoming summit on 6 November.
As regards the common economic space, first and foremost, we are waiting for the high-level working group to conclude its work.
We hope – and we are working towards this – that we can agree on a common commitment to pursue an even higher level of integration of our economies, through greater liberalisation of trade and greater convergence in terms of regulations.
In parallel, the European Union is involved in the negotiations for Russia to join the World Trade Organization.
Commissioner Lamy recently spoke to the Council on this matter and was given strong encouragement to continue with the negotiations.
We are aware that this is a request that can be set in the medium to long term, but a number of preconditions will need to be met first on the Russian side.
Talks with the Russian authorities on this subject have already started and this is encouraging in any case; a working group has already met, on 13 October, to deal with this matter.
Some Member States, including Italy, have already established bilateral agreements, and others have stated their intention to do so.
The Presidency intends, of course, to work towards a common position that can so far as possible absorb the bilateral agreements.
Among the positive points I can, however, mention the fact that the Russian Federation has recently joined the so-called ‘Bologna process’, a collaboration mechanism that promotes agreement on academic titles and the harmonisation of university curricula.
I must also mention the possibility of renewing the cooperation agreement in the field of science and technology, and also the prospect of including the Russian Federation in certain Community programmes in the culture and education sector, something that the Italian Presidency is encouraging.
With regard to the St Petersburg conclusions, there is one aspect on which there is still a difference of opinion: the way the Permanent Partnership Council operates.
On the Russian side, they continue to interpret the St Petersburg Declaration as meaning that the council should meet not only in different guises depending on the various subjects dealt with, but also in the 25 + 1 format.
I hope to deal with this matter in greater depth during my visit to Moscow on 28 October.
In our talks with Moscow, we shall continue to stand by our positions of principle and our concerns regarding the protraction of the Chechnya crisis and respect for human rights.
The match that is being played out in Chechnya has a significance that extends well beyond that territory: its outcome, whether positive or negative, will be felt throughout the Caucasus and will thus affect the overall security of the continent.
We have shown the European Union’s support for the broad constitutional reform initiative that President Putin has launched through the adoption of a new Constitution, approved by a vast majority in a popular referendum.
Today, we reiterate our support for President Putin’s institutional approach and for a political solution that involves those increasingly broad sections of the Chechen population that have no links with terrorism and are therefore entitled to take part in the process of democratic reconstruction.
We shall also reiterate our interest and encouragement for the Russian authorities to achieve the swift and safe release of the representative, Arjan Erkel, who was kidnapped in the Caucasus in August 2002.
With the enlargement of the Union and the increasing proximity of our borders, the Union has become rather more sensitive to this than previously, as it directly affects the security of the continent.
At the same time, we recognise the great responsibility that Moscow has to face and the great contribution it can make in seeking solutions that are satisfactory to all the parties concerned.
It is of course long-standing good practice for Parliament to review our relations with Russia on the occasion of forthcoming summits.
First of all, we want to find a common understanding with Russia on the approach to creating the common spaces, stressing the strategic nature of relations between Europe and Russia.
Secondly, we want to intensify discussions on the impact of enlargement.
This is a formality, and one on which we want to tie up loose ends by 1 May 2004.
If we cannot achieve this, we will need to agree to apply the partnership and cooperation agreement on a provisional basis, as in 1997.
I spent 18 months myself working with deputy Prime Minister Khristenko on the European economic area.
We will, for example, request Russia once again to ratify the Kyoto Protocol as soon as possible, and ask Russia to intensify cooperation on nuclear and maritime safety, on terrorism and on the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
Fifthly, we are ready to agree a joint declaration on cooperation on political and security matters, including crisis management.
In making all these points, the European Union will recall the importance of the common values which underpin European Union/Russia relations, and which are crucial with regard to Chechnya.
It was in our view essential that the population of Chechnya should recognise the legitimacy of the presidential elections held on 5&#160;October.
In fact, the security situation in Chechnya has, if anything, deteriorated since last March, and it would be difficult even to carry out a needs assessment, let alone to start work.
We are fully aware of the conclusions of the September meeting of the EU-Russia Parliamentary Cooperation Committee and we look forward to a new resolution on EU-Russia relations following the Oostlander report of December 2000.
Speaking for myself, I hope that by the time I give up my present responsibilities my speaking notes for meetings with my Russian interlocutors do not cover nearly all the same points that they did four years ago. &#160;&#160; – Mr PresidentRussia is already now by far the most significant country the Union shares a border with.
Russia is still a modest proposition in terms of its economy, GDP being slightly greater than that of the Netherlands, but its economic potential might be said to be huge.
The Union has already strengthened its cooperation with regard to energy in Russia’s direction, as we heard the Commissioner say, which is vital if we are aiming to find a replacement for North Sea energy sources, which are running out, and avoid becoming solely dependent on the Middle East’s energy resources.
In the view of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Russia is now and will be in the future our most important neighbouring region – whatever geographical definition is applied to cooperation with neighbouring regions.
In our opinion the Union has to use all the economic and intellectual means it has to try and help the advance of a stable market economy, the development of democracy and see the rule of law become established and take root in Russia, because any other sort of Russia, if it remains a nuclear superpower, would also be the greatest potential security threat to the Union.
Russia and the rest of Europe are bound to one another by destiny. ‘There is no great Europe without Russia and no great Russia without Europe’ was the motto employed by our party, led by the current President of the French Republic, Jacques Chirac, and Russia’s workgroup on progressive forces back at the start of the 1990s.
Our attempts at cooperation with Russia, however, must not be allowed to eclipse the fact that we now insist on better compliance with human rights and the freedom of speech than before in Russia.
At the same time, the Union’s dependence on Russia’s resources is growing: that would seem the prospect for natural gas, for example, in the next decade.
The Russian President has set two objectives in his election campaign: firstly, to create a strong central power based on the rule of law, and secondly to extend economic growth to the vast sections of Russia’s population who are poor.
It is in the European Union’s interests that Russia is able to solve its huge problems, from its wide-scale poverty to human rights, freedom of the media and the war in Chechnya.
We want to see that economic, political and cultural cooperation can also help us to have an impact on Russia’s problems.
In its time it was a gift to Stalin, who pulled down the shutters and began having his own people killed.
At the same time both sides have been developing relations of cooperation with other states.
Thus, Russia has recently concluded an agreement with Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan on the formation of a common economic area.
In my opinion it would be wise to try and bring together these arrangements for cooperation by establishing a broader, multilateral, economic area of cooperation, with the involvement of not only the EU and Russia but also that of Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan as well as any other of the Newly Industrialised Countries willing to participate.
The Commission proposal for a new financial instrument for neighbourly cooperation will eliminate those problems which we have had harmonising internal and external financial schemes.
The Russian authorities must familiarise themselves with the new financing scheme in good time so that we can be sure it will work right from the start.
My gratitude is for the fact that the Foreign Affairs Minister has mentioned the name of Arjan Erkel without prompting.
I hope that you will certainly bring this up for discussion on 28 October in your meetings with Mr Ivanov.
I have, however, to give voice to some disappointment too, Mr Berlusconi.
This is why I want to come back to our resolution of July, in which the express request was made for the European Union to play a significant role, with a peace conference held under its aegis, because an external player is required to ensure that the Russians and Chechens enter into real dialogue.
Mr President, I would like to thank you for the extra time you have given me. &#160;&#160; Mr President, close cooperation with Russia is vital if the international community is to compel Iran to restrict the application of nuclear energy to purely civil purposes.
I trust that the Council and the Commission will clearly put this message across to President Putin.
After all, what matters now is for yesterday's concessions to Iran to be realised.
I would like to ask the Council and the Commission if this serious allegation concerning Europe's contribution is true.
The immediate cause is the construction of a dam from the Russian peninsula Taman to the Ukrainian island of Tuzla in the Gulf of Kerch.
We from the European side should make an urgent appeal to both parties for a peaceful settlement of this thorny territorial dispute.
You have presented them as a terrorist people; the foreign ministers of the five largest countries in the European Union, who met in Paris last week, promised each other to exchange information on the international terrorist training camps in Chechnya.
You have never given us – the public – the slightest evidence of them.
You talked of Chechen terrorists present in Afghanistan, but no Chechen has ever been found in Afghanistan; you said the same thing about Iraq, but you have never found a single Chechen in Iraq, alive or dead.
I wish I had much more time to talk about it, but I want to concentrate upon what is most urgent, namely the issue of Chechnya.
We see in many quarters how great powers come into conflict with population groups with different national identities.
We can begin by looking at ourselves – the EU and Europe.
One current example is Northern Ireland, where we are beginning to find a solution.
No one else can solve the conflict for them.
The point of departure must, however, be self-determination on the part of the people.
After all, we are dealing with entirely different cooperation possibilities, which may, in turn, have an effect on Russia's political culture.
These are events that we have witnessed from relatively close-by in Chechnya.
If we ask the acting commanding officer whether there is an alternative to this guerrilla warfare and whether there is any knowledge about this alternative method, his response is that this knowledge is available at the ministry, but he questions what good that is to them on the ground.
Mr Patten is right: the security situation over there is abominable; even aid workers will certainly not be able to operate in safety.
Even if one takes a critical view of the possibilities open to it in political dialogue on the resolution of the conflict with and within Russia in relation to Chechnya, the EU does have options, and we should make use of them primarily in order to provide effective aid for humanitarian purposes and for reconstruction, so that the hard-pressed people of Chechnya can get real help. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the summit on 6 November will be different because not only is Russia currently the EU's fifth largest trading partner, but from next May it will be its neighbour.
Only Russia can deliver that.
Recently, Russia signed a controversial and, in my view, regrettable single economic space agreement with Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan, but at the same time we now see dangerous military posturing from Russia and threats to invade as a result of the dispute over Tuzla Island in the Black Sea.
In making these statements, you are putting yourself at odds with what the majority in this House has thought and said for years, and also opposing the position that the majority in my party, the European People’s Party, has taken for years in this House.
We have stood up for freedom and human rights in Chechnya, where Russia is engaged in a brutal colonial war, the second stage of which was inaugurated by President Putin in the course of the bloodiest election campaign in history.
In the long term, Russia will have to recognise that the only solution for its problems is for Chechnya to be a real democracy, and we have to see that the problem is that the pseudo-referendum that has been held there is intended to legitimise someone who was and is a villain rather than a legitimate partner in dialogue, namely President Mashadov. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a look at the topics for the forthcoming summit with Russia reveals among them such important and honourable projects as support for independent media at national, regional and local level, the integration of Russia into a common European economic and social area, cooperation in the fight against international crime and illegal migration, cooperation in the field of nuclear safety, the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol and a number of other things.
I recall, in this context, an article by the Russian chess grand master Garry Kasparov on the eve of President Putin’s visit to the USA, an article that is equally relevant to the imminent summit between Russia and Europe.
He followed this up with a veritable tirade enumerating incidences of negligence and wrongdoing, arguing, for example, that Russian democracy is only a front; that the press and media are in fact made to toe the line, that liberalisation of the economy is not in fact being implemented, that potential contenders in the forthcoming presidential elections were interned on spurious charges of economic crime, and that the elections in Chechnya were a charade.
We should be calling, firstly, for an end to the lawlessness of Russian army personnel, or else it will never be possible to win the public’s confidence.
It would be desirable if the Kremlin were, at the EU-Russia summit, to be reminded, on this point, of its most fundamental responsibility, for it is in any case President Putin who is required by the Russian constitution to guarantee human rights in the Russian Federation as a whole. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I thank all the Members who have spoken and expressed opinions – some of which I think deserve brief comments – as well as claims with which I frankly cannot agree.
Nevertheless, although we shall certainly talk about this point – that is, the involvement of a broad spectrum of Chechen civil society in the constitutional process – at the summit with the Russian Federation, I must also make it just as clear that there can never be any justification of any kind for those individuals – however many of them there may be – who commit terrorist acts or use themselves as human bombs to kill innocent civilians.
I say this because even before that, as a representative of the Italian Government, I can say that Italy has always been firmly convinced that the battle for the abolition of the death penalty is of great political and idealistic value, as well as having a very important humanitarian aspect.
I believe that all of us Europeans are sure that the process leading to the complete abolition of the death penalty is irreversible, but also that this process has to be a gradual one.
In the debate within the European Union, a major ethical problem, which is a question, has arisen.
If the data really confirm that there is a trend towards an expansion of the abolitionist front, we wonder: is it now worth running the risk of the resolution failing – given the uncertainty of the outcome – or might it not be better to wait until our position has been further consolidated?
These are the questions that have been asked.
The Italian Presidency has been giving considerable thought to these serious questions, because Europe obviously cannot and must not appear divided or uncertain on a subject as important and sensitive as this one.
The fact remains, however, that many countries whose history would suggest that they should be in favour of a resolution of this sort have not expressed their position on our question, and we should not ignore the risk that, if amendments are tabled on the text of a resolution such as this, the united front of supporting countries might suffer some major defections when it comes to the vote.
The Italian Presidency – and the Italian Government, at a national level – are very conscious of the demand made by this Parliament, the European Parliament, just as, in Italy, we are conscious of the mission that the Italian Parliament has given us to put a resolution on a moratorium before the General Assembly.
On the other hand, it is quite clear to us that many governments within the European Union are still rather baffled and are wondering how best to pursue this objective, which we all share.
We are aware that concern over a defeat, despite the general positive feeling, is prevailing over any inclination to table a resolution.
This would be a decision consistent with Europe’s commitment to oppose the death penalty.
I know time is short, and I know this consideration has to lead to a decision very swiftly.
I hope there will be either a joint decision of all the countries of Europe to share responsibility for tabling a resolution of this kind&#160;–&#160;which would be by far the best option – or a European decision that clearly leaves the path clear for national initiatives on this subject by European countries, including, perhaps, the Italian Government acting at a national level.
If the initiative comes from Europe, it will certainly have greater force; if it comes from the governments of European countries it will certainly have less force but it will be equally important.
The first act that I carried out when I was a colonial oppressor was to abolish capital punishment in Hong Kong!
I hope also that Parliament will excuse me if a good deal of what I say treads in the elegant footsteps of the presidency.
Parliament knows that we consistently work towards the universal abolition of the death penalty.
The European Parliament is a long-standing opponent of the death penalty and has been instrumental in promoting this process.
A series of initiatives have been taken to ensure that the abolition of the death penalty should become a key element of European human rights policy.
It is on the basis of this strongly held European policy objective that for the last years we have successfully tabled resolutions in the UN Commission on Human Rights on the death penalty, as the President-in-Office has said.
The seventh consecutive resolution was adopted in Geneva on 24 April.
This resolution contains some significant new features.
The resolution adopted in Geneva received the support of 24 states, while 18 voted against and 10 abstained.
However, the strong disagreement of many states was proved by the fact that 63 countries signed a statement dissociating themselves from the resolution.
I thought it would be useful to recall these facts in the context of today's debate on a resolution requesting a moratorium on the death penalty in the General Assembly Third Committee.
A first consideration, before presenting any resolution, should be whether such a text would receive sufficient support to be adopted by the General Assembly.
We have no indications that the General Assembly would be more positively inclined today towards a death penalty resolution.
The presidency has suggested that the European proposal should not go as far as requesting abolition of the death penalty but rather a moratorium on the use of this punishment.
Since the resolution tabled by the European Union in the Commission on Human Rights asks states to abolish the death penalty completely and, in the meantime, to establish a moratorium on executions, we may run the risk of being perceived as weakening the European stance by not suggesting the same high standards in the General Assembly.
In the context of that meeting, the world coalition of NGOs against the death penalty, and that includes Amnesty International and many other prestigious organisations, presented its own view.
The message of this group was to ask the European Union to refrain from presenting a resolution on the death penalty at the forthcoming General Assembly.
These NGOs in particular pointed out that since there are no signs to the effect that political tensions have eased since 1999, such an initiative could create a highly politicised and counter-productive debate in the General Assembly.
In their view, another failure in the General Assembly could reinforce the position of those states that maintain the death penalty.
The European Commission will continue to support campaigns designed to achieve a moratorium on the death penalty and on executions and eventually the abolition of capital punishment throughout the world.
Last year approximately EUR 4.9 million were allocated under the European initiative to projects aimed at raising European public awareness in retentionist countries.
In January, Governor Ryan of Illinois decided to commute the death sentences of 156 prisoners on death row.
Lastly, the President of Armenia in July commuted all outstanding death sentences to life in prison and, subsequently, in September, ratified Protocol 6 to the European Convention on Human Rights, and in that way abolished the death penalty.
We are making some progress, but it will take time and persistence, as well as the continuing advocacy of this Parliament if we are to attain our goal, which is to see the death penalty consigned to the history books as a form of punishment that should have no place in the modern world. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, thank you for describing the efforts you are currently making.
The European Union’s position is indeed clear; we are all unreservedly opposed to the death penalty, and that is why the resolution tabled jointly by this House is a relatively short one.
Commissioner Patten set out very well how we can proceed without losing sight of our fundamental rejection of the death penalty.
I believe that all the states belonging to the United Nations know where the European Union stands on this.
I believe that an initiative of this kind carries more weight and has more far-reaching impact if twenty-five states adopt it.
I am sure that this House will, by way of this resolution, virtually unanimously endorse this approach. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, may I say by way of an introduction that it is rather odd that every debate of ours on the death penalty should still be marred by a particular lack of frankness.
A few months ago we listened with similar discomfort to people speaking in tones of exasperation about Cuba, while on China, with its 3&#160;138 executions in one year, we continue to pick just polite words, which are reduced at times to an embarrassed stammer when Europe is called to speak out on the increasingly frequent, at times almost industrial use of capital punishment in the United States or other so-called liberal democracies that still use the gallows, such as Taiwan, Thailand, Japan and India.
I should not like this political bashfulness to be compounded now by a serious omission concerning a commitment that the Presidency of the Council formally adopted before this Parliament on 2 July this year, that is, to put a resolution for a moratorium on capital punishment before the United Nations General Assembly.
In conclusion, as the President-in-Office of the Council leaves for China, we also entrust him with the task of reminding that country that, when faced with the value of human life, there can be no political expediency or hierarchy, not even towards China. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the UN Charter of Human Rights states that everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.
Last year, 31 countries breached this crucially important article, which supports what is human and alive and promotes a civilised and humane society.
Thirty-one countries believed they had the right to take the lives of their own citizens.
According to Amnesty International, a total of 1&#160;526 people were executed in these 31 countries, and 3&#160;284 people were condemned to death in 67 countries.
Slightly more than 80% of the executions took place in three countries: China, Iran and the United States.
In the United States, the number of executions increased last year to 71, compared to 66 the year before.
This popular revolt against the death penalty, the first step in which is a worldwide moratorium, must be supported wholeheartedly by the EU and the Italian Presidency.
The death penalty must be abolished.
It is not negotiable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I believe we should welcome the fact that the cause fought for by the abolitionists has become, in the space of a few decades, a few generations, one of the general public’s most passionate demands in the field of human rights.
When in 1961, abolitionists such as Martin Luther King talked about abolishing the death penalty, it appeared to be a pipe-dream.
The following generation – my own – was made aware of the issue as a result of the policy conducted in this area in France, when François Mitterrand and Robert Badinter abolished the death penalty in 1981.
We should also bear in mind that countries we thought would never abolish the death penalty so quickly, such as Turkey and various candidate countries, have succeeded in doing so, by showing some real political will, especially since our sitting in this Chamber in June 2001.
When we rally forces, we manage to save a Nigerian woman who had children outside marriage from the death penalty.
This is why, in my opinion, we must not extradite people to countries where we know they can expect the death penalty.
In particular, it upsets me to think about our fellow citizens currently in Guantanamo, because we do not know what their fate might be.
It thus lies at the point where two eras and two different political views of the world meet.
I believe the time is now ripe to take this step forward and do all we can to try for a comprehensive moratorium to let the death penalty just smoulder everywhere in the world as an interim stage in eliminating it once and for all.
The plan will involve diplomatic and other types of risks, but the goal will make them worth taking. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, despite repeated calls from many quarters for the protection of human rights to manifest itself in the abolition of the death penalty, we have not only seen an increase in death sentences in some countries in recent years but also systems of execution becoming crueller, with barbaric methods used.
This is why the moratorium on the death penalty must be accompanied by sanctions that Europe must impose on those governments which do not accept the moratorium and continue to apply the death penalty with cruel techniques such as, for example, stoning to death.
One of the sanctions that we would like to see would be a suspension of economic relations with these countries: continuing to help the citizens, where possible, but no longer trafficking&#160;–&#160;if you will excuse the term&#160;–&#160;with those countries whose governments knowingly continue to violate human rights.
Europe cannot impose its laws and its concept of democracy onto other countries, but neither can it continue to have effective economic relations with governments that are founded on the violation of the most fundamental human rights because, in these countries, the death penalty is not only a punishment inflicted by courts or carried out by the executioner but also one which is inflicted every day by hunger, desperation and violence that drive whole populations to seek refuge elsewhere and even, as has been happening in Somalia since 1991, to die in the waters of the Indian Ocean or in the Sicilian Canal.
Europe’s involvement in this could give new hope to so many women oppressed by the extremist and inhumane vision of all too many governments. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I have been allocated 90 seconds as president of and as a representative of the Transnational Radical Party, which has been fighting for decades to, at last&#160;–&#160;and I am saying this to President&#160;Frattini&#160;–&#160;state our convictions instead of doing verbal gymnastics around conventions in an undignified manner.
The Italian Presidency has proclaimed and is continuing to proclaim loud and clear its conviction in this battle, taking every single opportunity, every single day in this rubbish heap of pretexts and excuses, every opportunity, to go against its commitments.
My time has run out but I fear that your time is running out for credibility and decency.
I hope that this is not yet the case but you are in danger and putting us in danger of indecency and not being believed. &#160;&#160; – Mr President—in-Office of the Council, I do believe that it is essential that the Italian Presidency, on behalf of the European Union and its Member States of course, presents a motion for a resolution to the United Nations General Assembly calling for the adoption of a universal moratorium on death penalties.
Furthermore, if a country does not respect the most fundamental of rights, with what authority will it demand from citizens respect for other rights and on what foundations will that country base its democracy and Rule of Law if its law allows the most important and most fundamental of rights to be violated: the right to life?
It is true that progress has been made in this regard and that today far fewer countries maintain the death penalty in their legislation, but we are still far from its total abolition, as the statistics so cruelly demonstrate.
The European Union, therefore, in order to be coherent in terms of the values on which it is founded, must make fighting the death penalty a priority, not only before the United Nations General Assembly, but also in its relations with third countries which have yet to abolish it, whatever links the Union may have with these countries or their strategic or commercial importance, because nobody must be given the power to decide on the life or death of a human being. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like to make a few very brief comments to give absolute clarification on this issue, which is very important to the Italian Presidency.
In many speeches, I have heard a call to the Italian Presidency to present the resolution to the United Nations General Assembly, on behalf of the European Union.
What I did not hear&#160;–&#160;but which I hope Parliament will be able to establish in its deliberations&#160;–&#160;was anything regarding a situation which I felt it was my duty to mention in my speech.
In light of this, there are two options: either Parliament asks the Council Presidency to present a document on behalf of the European Union when not all of the Members of the EU agree&#160;–&#160;and this is the first option&#160;–&#160;or it must be clearly stated that Italy, even holding the Presidency of the European Union, can present a resolution even without the consensus of some Member States&#160;–&#160;without this, however, being seen as a grave violation of the spirit of cohesion in the European Union that we must demonstrate.
Italy, as a nation, is in favour of doing so, but it is in favour&#160;–&#160;and I repeat this&#160;–&#160;of doing so when it becomes totally clear that, within the framework of the European Union, not all Member States are in favour, not of a moratorium because we are all in favour of a moratorium, not of abolition, because we are all in favour of that, but of a resolution now being presented.
I do not understand it at all and I still do not know whether or not the presidency will support our demands. &#160;&#160; I suggest that you take up that matter with the President-in-Office of the Council.
I have received five motions for resolutions from different political groups.(1) The vote will take place tomorrow.
Abolishing the death penalty must be seen as a crucial aspect of the EU’s relations with third countries.
This barbaric practice still takes place in particular in Japan, China, the United States, Saudi Arabia, and in Iran, where executions are still carried out.
What is worse, between 2001 and 2002, the number of executions increased.
It has become impossible to remain silent about this ‘administrative murder’, especially when it is carried out by the most powerful country in the world, which is attempting to impose its order and its values on the rest of the world.
We cannot accept that the only solution to crime and violence is crime and violence itself.
Like the newly created World Association of Parliamentarians against the Death Penalty and in line with the worldwide call for abolition, the European Union must exert all necessary pressure to ensure that the United Nations adopts a moratorium that would have lead rapidly to the abolition of the death penalty.
Preventing the irreparable must be done as a matter of urgency. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B5-0279/2003).
We will take a series of questions to the Council. &#160;&#160; Question No 1 will not be replied to because its subject already appears on the agenda of the present part-session.
On the basis of these documents, in Seville in 2002, the European Council specified priority measures and asked for a common unit of external border practitioners to be set up, made up of Member States’ heads of border control services and charged with coordinating the measures contained in the plan.
Furthermore, this also provided for the rapid implementation of joint operations at external borders and the immediate commencement of pilot projects.
These operations and projects have been implemented or have been in the process of being implemented since 2002 and 2003.
This unit has been set up and is operating in the Council.
This proposal will draw on the experience of the Common Unit of External Border Practitioners.
Furthermore, the European Council took note of the study carried out for the Commission on maritime borders and invited the Justice and Home Affairs Council to draw up a working programme on this issue to be adopted by the end of the year.
Finally, regarding the European police college: this was set up by the Council decision of December 2000, it began operating in 2001 and is temporarily based in Denmark.
A decision regarding its permanent site will depend on the recommendations given by the European Council. &#160;&#160; – Thank you, Mr Frattini, for your answer, which was extremely good and specific, and for the very good work that the Italian Presidency of the Council has done in this area.
This is why we value the cooperation between the Commission and the Council, particularly from the coming months onwards. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, at present a team of experts in the field of border control operate in Finland.
In other words, has the Council any plans at this time regarding what is to happen to this team of border control experts that currently operate in Finland? &#160;&#160; C These are technical problems, which I take note of.
Despite this, being aware of the importance of the question, the Italian Presidency raised the issue of the execution of prison sentences at an informal meeting of Ministers for Justice held in Rome on 13&#160;September 2003.
Since we thought it an excellent idea and since Parliament has been calling on the Council to do this very thing for years&#160;–&#160;and I would now add the idea of extending the right that Italian deputies have to visit prisons to MEPs&#160;–&#160;I would like to ask if you can confirm this intention in this House on behalf of the Italian Presidency. &#160;&#160; I do not feel I can reply as a representative of the Italian Government.
Given that Turkey is not entitled to conclude trade agreements without the approval of the European Union, not to mention the fact that the signing of such an agreement with Denktash's self-styled 'state' is tantamount to provocation vis-à-vis the European Union and the Republic of Cyprus, which is to join the EU in 2004, does the Council believe that the signing of this agreement represents a positive contribution by Turkey to efforts to resolve the Cyprus question, as it undertook to do on the basis of the Helsinki Agreement and the European Union/Turkey Association Agreement? &#160;&#160; The European Union has expressed its concern to Turkey about the framework agreement on customs union with the Republic of Northern Cyprus and, in particular, stated that, over and above the implications of a legal and commercial nature, the signing of the said agreement damages the efforts intended to resolve the Cyprus issue and goes against the spirit of the plan drawn up by UN Secretary General, Kofi&#160;Annan.
The European Union is expecting Turkey to abide by this decision and withdraw the current trade measures with Northern Cyprus that are violating the Europe-Turkey customs union. &#160;&#160; I thank the President-in-Office for his reply.
Aid organisations fear that that figure will rise to five million by the end of the year.
The European Union’s food aid policy and its management are regulated by a 1996 Council regulation, pursuant to which the Commission adopts all the provisions necessary for food aid programmes and actions to be implemented properly.
In its common position of 18 February 2002 on Zimbabwe, the Council expressed serious concern at the situation in this country, in particular the renewed violence, and imposed sanctions on Zimbabwe.
This common position was extended until 20 February 2004.
The European Union has harboured serious concerns at the publication, by the Zimbabwe Government, of the new policy relating to the operations of non-governmental organisations providing humanitarian aid and development aid.
The Presidency is currently preparing the mandate for the aforementioned initiative.
The Union will continue to follow the development of the food crisis closely, in the hope that the Zimbabwe Government will, indeed, respect the humanitarian principles of the recently-signed Memoranda of Understanding. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President.
I should be interested in learning what is the Council Presidency's reaction to the proposal. &#160;&#160; As Mr&#160;Cushnahan knows from the Council’s reply to his previous question, the Commission was commissioned to carry out a feasibility study to improve controls at maritime borders following the adoption of the comprehensive plan to combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings in February 2002.
The Commission forwarded this report to the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 12/13 September 2003.
These actions are testimony to the importance that the Council accords the issue of controls at maritime borders.
We are convinced that the management of external borders should have a substantial European dimension if we are to succeed in making progress in implementing measures that have already been determined by the Council seeking to combat illegal immigration and associated crime. &#160;&#160; I welcome the fact that the Italian Presidency is interested in the concept of the European coastguard and recognises the fragility of our maritime borders rather than – and it has happened in the past – an exclusive preoccupation with land frontiers.
While I am aware of the Commission proposal, would the presidency not accept that the issue of illegal trafficking in human beings is not the only problem on our seas?
According to international law and on the basis of ethical and constitutional principles common to all the Member States of the European Union, we have urged governments to commit to the UN resolutions and decisions and to enforce all the rules, laws and programmes seeking to ensure that women can fully enjoy all rights and fundamental freedoms on an equal footing with men.
The European Union monitors and regularly discusses with the Mexican authorities the human rights situation in Mexico and compliance with the country’s undertakings under international law.
The recent restructuring carried out by the undersecretary for democracy and human rights in the Mexican Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the National Human Rights Commission’s recent decision to cancel the Ombudsman project that had been financed by the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights have given rise to much concern.
Mexico was chosen as one of three priority Latin American countries to benefit from the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights for the period 2002-2004.
The Mexican authorities should therefore renew their commitment to make progress in the field of human rights in cooperation with international partners, including the important UNHCR programme in Mexico.
Furthermore, more than 4 470 women and girls of between 14 and 16 years old have disappeared.
As I mentioned earlier, the aim is to approve the launch of a European agency specialised in this area at the December European Council.
The Council recalls, furthermore, that, in the context of the plan for the management of external borders of the Member States of the European Union, some joint operations have already been put in place that seek to monitor and reduce illegal immigration via the sea.
A final progress report on the implementation of this plan for the management of external borders, with evaluations of the results, was presented in June 2003 and then forwarded to the Thessaloniki Council.
This operation involves implementing joint surveillance and monitoring operations in the central and eastern Mediterranean, and various Member States and accession countries are involved.
This issue is part of a broad, comprehensive approach to immigration that is balanced and integrated.
Particular attention, in this respect, was given to creating a network of liaison officers, to be formally approved by the end of 2003, whose job it will be, precisely, to create a support network for European initiatives to regulate the whole phenomenon of migration. &#160;&#160; I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply and for the measures adopted by the Council.
I believe, however, that the Council is not adopting them with the speed that this situation calls for, because these are measures that will be adopted at the beginning of 2004 at the earliest and we will have to wait for a year or more for them to be put into practice.
We have stated our position, which could obviously be the position of each individual Member State of the European Union; each one is governed by different laws regarding popular consultation.
Moreover, I can express a hope and an opinion which is mine alone, perhaps a dream, certainly not a practical situation that is feasible in the near future: that of a European referendum, in which all the citizens of Europe give their opinions on the draft Treaty on the same day.
I believe it is incredibly important for Italy, as the country holding the Presidency, to have its own view and, thus, for the Council Presidency to operate as a model.
We are in favour of any initiative that gives force and popular legitimacy to the current constitutional process, but this is a favourable view and a vision that, as you so rightly said, Mr&#160;Sacrédeus, cannot impose solutions on other countries’ constitutional systems. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Frattini, we have just heard your opinions and we would like to thank you.
I would like to ask whether, in the evaluations given to date and in the proposals put forward by individual Member States to establish the Convention text, or rather the Constitutional Treaty, there have been any evaluations or whether ideas have been included regarding the proposed referendums.
I understood, and we know, that our systems do not provide for an abrogative referendum, nor does the possibility currently exist of subjecting this Constitutional Treaty to a similar evaluation.
My opinion is that, in order to convince the citizens of the importance of European elections, we must obtain good results when drawing up the Constitutional Treaty.
I will try explaining this the other way around: if we do not reach an agreement on the Constitutional Treaty by the end of the year, then this will be a powerful weapon to discourage the public from voting because we will have sent the public a message of crisis in our European ideal.
The first thing that we need to do is, therefore, show that, after the many, long months of the Convention and the Conference on the constituent debate, that we reach agreement on the Treaty.
Given the peripheral nature of Ireland, and the west and north-west of the country in particular, and the need to ensure fast and inexpensive access to continental markets for a wide range of goods and services, does the Council consider that the Commission’s revision of the guidelines for the trans-European transport network (TEN-T) will help to boost economic development and cohesion in the west of Ireland? &#160;&#160; For this reply, I will refer to the Council declaration on trans-European networks, which we presented on 24&#160;September during the last plenary session in Strasbourg.
The issue must, indeed, be dealt with not only with words but also with a major support action.
These regions, with a population of 3.8 million inhabitants, received EUR&#160;7&#160;200 million during the first two Structural Funds periods, which means that every inhabitant in these regions received 33% more than those in the Objective 1 regions.
In 2002, the Commission forwarded a regulation to increase the funding of the trans-European networks.
This proposal is still being discussed, but the Council is expecting a new proposal to be forwarded, amending the decision on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network, adopted by the Commission on 1&#160;October 2003, just a few days ago.
The Council will have to look into the scope of the new proposal.
The Council gave a mandate to its bodies, having only just received the proposal from the Commission, to begin the relevant work to adopt a political decision on this matter as soon as possible.
They could perhaps also be included in the project on telecommunications networks, but what is striking about this report is that it does not contain the least reference to this type of region, and the European Union's experience demonstrates that, if there is no specific reference in these projects to the outermost regions, it is probable that the strengthening of continental communications networks will in no way benefit these regions.
In Ireland, for example, the network into and out of Ireland is often considered sufficient, but the west of Ireland is even more peripheral and remote, and this problem is not addressed by the Commission's present policy.
There is already a rail link in place in the west, but it is not used as a result of the fact that the policy is not strong enough to put in place such a network in the peripheral regions of the west of Ireland. &#160;&#160; I feel obliged to remind you that this is a time for supplementary questions, not statements or explanations about why a question has been presented, because this afternoon the same issue is arising.
In particular, you mentioned two things: the public/private partnerships with regard to financing and also how the record of government guarantees is registered.
Surely this is a mistake, as we are investing in infrastructure that is essential for economic growth to create a stronger economy and a stable growth environment.
It is then, therefore, that we will, of course, also have the necessary legal framework. &#160;&#160; Mr Frattini, I must ask you please to answer a final question, which is actually a fivefold question, since, as they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 will be taken together.
Following a trial conducted without the minimum legal safeguards, the United States Government imprisoned five Cuban citizens resident in Florida (Gerardo Hernández, René González, Fernando González, Tony Guerrero and Ramón Labañino) whose task was to combat terrorism by the mafia groups that strike at Cuba and the Cuban people.
Following a trial conducted without the minimum legal safeguards, the United States Government imprisoned five Cuban citizens resident in Florida (Gerardo Hernández, René González, Fernando González, Tony Guerrero and Ramón Labañino).
The Council has not discussed the conditions of trial.
As far as the more general stance of the Council and the Commission regarding Cuba is concerned, I would refer the Members who have tabled the questions to the debate that we held in this House at the beginning of September, because the conditions and stance have not changed &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Frattini, for the speed and clarity of your reply.
But, apart from thanking you for the information, the supplementary question I would like to put is as follows: when the sad and reprehensible death sentences – which we also condemn – were passed in Cuba by the Cuban Government and by Cuban courts, everybody criticised and condemned – including the European Council – that action by the Cuban Government; so why, in the situation where families of Cuban prisoners cannot see the prisoners imprisoned in Florida, which is a violation of all human rights, do you not behave in the same way as in the case in March and concern yourselves with human rights, whoever is suffering these deprivations and violations of human rights? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Marset Campos, I can only say that I am not expressing&#160;–&#160;and I do not intend to express my personal opinion here.
I can confirm that the Council, although aware of the situation, decided not to examine or address the conditions or the situation relating to this trial.
On the other hand, however, as regards the violation of human rights and the sentences that have been inflicted by the Cuban Government, the European Union has, as you are aware, expressed a specific position unanimously and with the support of Parliament.
I will, of course, make a note of your concerns and the measures that you have called for, which I will, of course, forward as you worded them. &#160;&#160; We learn that the Council knows about but has not examined the conditions of the trial.
I believe it is time to take up a clear position condemning this aspect of the policy of this United States administration. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask whether human rights are universal or whether they only apply to certain countries. &#160;&#160; As the time allotted to questions to the Council has elapsed, Questions Nos 17 to 33 will be replied to in writing (1).
Mr President, I would first of all like to express my pleasure and thank all the Members who have joined me in making an effort to achieve the consensus in this report, a report with the significant title of ‘Peace and Dignity in the Middle East’.
It is true, as the report indicates, that it has not been possible to establish a climate of mutual trust between the parties and that recently the enemies of peace have placed obstacles and raised pretexts in the aim of making the Roadmap unworkable, but our duty is to continue trying to achieve it in the immediate, in the medium term and in the long term.
Hence the report – at risk of being accused of utopianism – calls on the governments of both parties and those of all the countries in the Middle East to implement a new educational policy based on the notion of education for peace and geared towards promoting mutual tolerance and understanding between the different cultures and religions.
Apparently alarmed by the resonance of the so-called Geneva Accord, the peace initiative produced as a result of joint Israeli-Palestinian efforts, Sharon has stated that the Roadmap is the only hope of making progress towards peace with Palestinians.
For example, on the basis of the necessary constitution of a viable and democratic Palestinian State, it calls on the Palestinian authorities to deal realistically with the so-called right of return for the refugees, so that a realistic solution can be agreed.
I would also like to congratulate him for showing a great deal of diligence and diplomacy in bringing diverging opinions together, while still offering us a report that is full of substance.
Resignation and failure are not options, for the sake of our neighbours, our partners and all people in the region.
The Road Map shows us the way, but what we need is the political determination from the parties and the international community to find that way forward.
But if completed as currently projected in official documents and media speculation, Palestinians would be living in several enclaves which are not connected and are isolated from the outside world.
Moreover, the projected route would involve cutting off a large number of Palestinians from their schools, hospitals and other services – and even their livelihoods.
Israel really must address these widely expressed concerns.
The report addressed the Commission directly on several issues.
Paragraph 31 refers to future elections in Palestine.
The Palestinian Prime Minister is planning to hold elections in June next year.
In paragraph 38, the report calls for an assessment of economic and financial needs.
An international donor conference for the Middle East is scheduled to take place in mid-November.
We will also have the opportunity to discuss with the World Bank and the IMF the prospects for financial assistance on the basis of the Palestinian budget for 2004.
But we need to be clear that, if the situation continues to deteriorate, we are not simply funding the Israeli Defence Force's occupation of the Palestinian territories.
Paragraph 40 speaks about schoolbooks.
In this context, let me mention that the latest call for proposals of projects under the EU Partnership for Peace focuses on initiatives to curb violence and incitement to violence.
Regarding the international fund mentioned in paragraph 59, I should like to mention that the international community has been making contributions at the rate of about EUR 1 billion a year for the last three years.
I agree with paragraph 64 that MEDA regional programmes should be fully used to exploit the potential benefits of regional and cross-border cooperation for the peace process.
Peace, dignity and security are indeed the foundation for a better future in the Middle East.
I therefore believe that the objective – the entire process’s ultimate destination – is clear to everyone: there will be a Palestinian state, the Israelis will have to withdraw from the occupied territories, and the two nations will have to live together in peace, just as the Germans and the French also had to learn to do after centuries of warfare.
Then, too, society changes in a process that you have described.
The Road Map, involving collaboration between the Quartet – the United States, the European Union, the United Nations and Russia – is absolutely the right approach.
Indeed, occupation, segregation, blockades, humiliation, targeted murders, houses being bulldozed and the wall are merely the visible signs of a deep-felt contempt and the failure to acknowledge a Palestinian national identity. ‘Even if 1&#160;000 terrorists were killed every day, nothing would change’ continues Avraham&#160;Burg.
There is certainly an alternative to Mr&#160;Sharon’s policy and this alternative is being advocated, in Israel, by members of the left and of civil society grouped around Yossi&#160;Beilin, Avraham&#160;Burg, Ami Ayalon and Amram Mitzna.
We must hope that the European Union, unlike the United States, openly supports their initiative, which is the only thing capable of stopping the current process of demolition.
The Union will have a good opportunity to do so, on 4&#160;November, when supporters of peace sign the Geneva Agreement.
The European Union, the United States, the United Nations and Russia each have the means of making both sides listen to reason.
The Middle East conflict, however, is not unrelated to all these problems and we are all concerned about this conflict and this problem.
We are now dealing with a report on peace and dignity in the Middle East.
I said that this report has been produced with difficulty, because the first document was dated 21&#160;May and the Commission’s agreement did not arrive until 9 October.
Almost five months have passed and, over these five months, too many things have happened in those countries.
I believe it is premature at the moment to define a series of issues which will certainly be problematic: what must the final borders be, what must the policy on refugees be, what must be done in Jerusalem.
He says that a state without justice that crushes the Palestinian majority under its boot cannot be regarded as the only democracy in the Middle East.
It is high time we stopped treating Israel as a normal democracy, because it is an occupying power and state that is in breach of international law.
We must of course give our support to the Beilin-Abed-Rabbo initiative and use the resources at our disposal.
He lists many good things the EU has done to strengthen the Palestinian Authority, but we must resort to more forceful methods.
My country has avoided occupation, but many of the rest of you live in countries in which people have risen up in resistance to occupation.
The violence of resistance and that of oppression cannot, however, be directly compared with one another because they are two different things.
The Israeli violence is the violence of oppression and occupation, and is unlawful.
I have been doubtful about this for many reasons, but why do we not send our protective forces to the Palestinians?
Let us protect the Palestinians. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the report before us is undoubtedly a well-intentioned document.
It is very long, and not one understanding or balanced remark is missing from it.
The whole thing could be summarised in the words from recital A: ‘whereas the time has come to end the violence and widespread terror that has existed in the region since well before the launch of the United Nations partition plan in 1947 and the founding of the State of Israel on 14 May 1948’. ‘[T]he time has come to end the violence’.
It is an account of 270 million people living in the darkness of the Middle Ages.
Let us debate peace and dignity in the Middle East in the light of the UNDP's report.
It is a matter of urgency, moreover, for the time bomb is ticking in the Middle East. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, the rapporteur and I have crossed swords on a number of occasions.
I can see two enormous barriers blocking the Roadmap to peace and dignity in the Middle East, and I believe that the rapporteur greatly underestimates them.
After all, both European institutions are in favour of fighting international terrorism.
The Middle East was more stable then, but let us move on.
It is an interesting fact that, after three years of , 60% of Palestinians live on less than two dollars per day.
The UNDP, which does have some knowledge of the matter, has raised a problem: the right to democracy.
The Israeli people choose; you do not like their choices, and I do not like them either, but do you want to take them away from them?
I wonder, therefore, what the point of the report is and whether it is really helpful, particularly as it does not take a truly detached position, as we have heard from the rapporteur already this evening.
He proposes introduction of the euro, an international mandate in Palestine and deployment of an international force on the ground.
We should recall that United Nations monitoring and observer forces have been in the Middle East for 50 years and they have singularly failed to prevent either conflict or terrorism.
The experience is that an international force does not secure peace but provides cover for its violation.
Let us not forget that this area of the Middle East was under a mandate, a League of Nations mandate, for some 26 years, from 1922.
The fundamental problem is that, with the honourable exception of Egypt and Jordan, the Arab and other states of the greater Middle East have refused to recognise the existence of the state of Israel.
Arab states have also, along with the United Nations, helped institutionalise the Palestine refugee question, so that it has provided fuel for hatred, instability and terrorism for over 50 years.
In other words, the report that is now being proposed, which has been discussed, amended and is more moderate, puts my mind at ease and even satisfies me on many points.
I sense in this House the inability to understand the suffering of others, the inability to understand that time is running out and that, whilst we have been discussing what solutions to adopt for months, for years, people are, in fact, still dying in Palestine and Israel.
I fully agree with the report, which is very important and quite clearly stresses its refusal of violence, but stresses just as clearly the right to live in peace, to build.
Time is short and I believe that two initiatives are extremely important.
There can only be peace where there is mutual respect.
We are giving a strong signal with this report and I believe that we must continue in this direction. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the situation in occupied Palestine is a disaster.
The social and economic crisis is worsening in Israel too, and even the most vulnerable communities are not spared.
The European Council of 16 and 17&#160;October confirmed that the Mediterranean region was of crucial importance.
As Mr&#160;Menéndez&#160;del&#160;Valle states in his report, there can be no military solution.
These actions run counter to the commitments given in the road map.
As we have often said, only the existence of two democratic, sovereign and viable States, as recognised in the 1967 borders, with Jerusalem as the capital, will allow the justice and dignity crucial to peace to be established and provide for a future that offers real possibilities.
This agreement allows the legitimacy of international law to be re-established.
I would like to express my fear to you, my fear of seeing a new hope dashed, leaving the way open for an even more radical approach, which would only benefit those who prefer violence to the law and war to peace.
We have a major political responsibility: we must assume this responsibility in the eyes of history and in the eyes of the world and we must break this silence, which would make us just as guilty for this new crime against humanity.
To conclude, we must emphasise civilian missions, in which international organisations play the role of moderator and protector: as a result of their action on the ground, they successfully conduct a citizens’ diplomacy, where our international diplomacy is unable to act.
Whether this agreement becomes an historic turning point, as I sincerely hope it will, or else a fiasco will now depend entirely upon the reception given to it by the Israeli population and upon the international reactions, especially the EU’s.
Both the Israeli and Palestinian peoples want peace.
We have come a long way from the stone-throwing of the first Intifada: what has succeeded this are the suicide attacks against Israel’s civilian population and this terror is met by the systematic use of intelligent weapons of targeted destruction, which also kill civilians – this time Palestinians.
No area is considered taboo and even the most contentious points are examined: Jerusalem, the Holy places, in particular the Dome of the Rock, or Temple Mount, which would be placed under Palestinian sovereignty, the recognition of Israel, the renunciation of the right of return to Israel of the 1948 refugees and their descendants, a viable Palestinian State, the settlements and land sharing.
I would add in this regard that the parallel drawn just now by the rapporteur between the Berlin and the Israeli walls does not stand up to scrutiny: the Berlin wall divided a single State, the artificial division of which we never recognised, the Israeli wall, although we can dispute the line it follows, can be considered to be the outline of a border between two States, which we dearly wish to see established instead of the current situation of occupation.
The Israeli and Palestinian authors of the Geneva Agreement have decided that tensions run so high today that, in order to encourage the two main players to leave behind the mindset of reprisals in which they are currently locked, small steps in the field of security would be more difficult to define and would generate even more misunderstandings than presenting an overall peace plan.
Our debate tonight, Mr President, can make a contribution to this. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, scarcely a day goes by without the Middle East being drawn further into the downward spiral of terrorism and violence.
However, the signs are not very encouraging.
The Oslo process has run its course, and the Quartet’s Road Map is at risk of becoming bogged down in the no-man’s-land of hatred and mistrust as well.
That is why this report’s fate can be predicted even before it has been adopted, which, unfortunately, it will be; it will join the countless other plans and texts that have been stillborn. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done, for it cannot have been an easy task.
The events of last weekend and this week have once again illustrated that the Roadmap cannot lead to peace without any foreign help.
The mutual violence defies all imagination.
However, Prime Minister Sharon will only accept this under American pressure, which is absent.
Discussion of this in Israel is gathering pace.
Our group is asking for Parliament’s support in Article 13(b), on which we will vote tomorrow.
These people are bearers of hope in these anxious days.
In the assessment of the facts I note many biases in favour of the Palestinian Authority, a position which will contribute to confusing and weakening Europe's role in future negotiations, since if we want to contribute to peace, we must have credibility in both sectors and this must be recognised.
For example, in paragraph&#160;4 it says that the Palestinian Authority is congratulated on having publicly and unconditionally accepted the Roadmap, when we know – and we have evidence of this – that Arafat, having rejected peace in Taba, has refused to accept any measure which may undermine his power, both in relation to the organisation of a single security system and in relation to the transfer of powers to Abu Mazen firstly and now, to the Prime Minister designate, Abu Ala.
And above all I am worried about certain paragraphs which are only going to serve to increase the tensions and reduce Europe's credibility, such as, for example, the ambiguity in relation to condemning Palestinian terrorism and the clear desire to separate it entirely from the Palestinian Authority or even worse alliances, more dangerous than those made between democratic parties in the open, documented by means of extreme tolerance towards terrorists, and the lack of a firm, clear and transparent security policy.
And the first part of the Roadmap includes the development of the foundations for a democratic system. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, I welcome the rapporteur’s laudable efforts in such a difficult area.
It is true that we need peace right away – it is urgent – it is true that we need to show the prospect, as has been said, and that we need to re-humanise this debate and avoid turning the parties into monsters.
I would, however, like to make a few brief comments on this report, but first to add my voice to the protests that have been raised against the Malaysian Prime Minister’s racist remarks.
I want our Assembly to note that and take strong initiatives in this regard.
Terrorism is a crime against humanity, it is absolutely evil, without equivalent, and must be condemned.
I really would like to know what the connection is between young people who blow themselves up in discos or people who are murdered in restaurants and the occupation.
They are two different things, different in the moral hierarchy and in the hierarchy of evil.
As a Green and pacifist, I obviously reject all violence, but I also note that international law draws a distinction between violence on the part of occupying forces and the forms of resistance directed by oppressed peoples in colonies and occupied countries against the occupying powers.
The committee endorsed the draft report with the proposed amendments by a substantial majority of forty-one votes in favour and just four against, which shows that there is a broad consensus in Parliament on these issues.
Commissioner Liikanen, what we want to do, on the basis of your Green Paper, is to support and undertake everything that helps to increase the number of self-employed persons in the European Union, encourages small businesses, and thus establishes conditions conducive to growth and innovation, especially in the services sector.
This Green Paper rightly defines entrepreneurship and discusses why it is important for jobs and growth, for competitiveness, for the realisation of individual potential and for society as a whole.
That includes measures in the field of research and development, and it also includes measures to alter the different attitudes towards starting a business and people’s willingness to assume risk.
This is the starting point for our proposals, which I do not want to discuss in detail.
We have achieved a broad consensus between the groups in this House, and Commissioner, we do not want this European Parliament report and the Green Paper to suffer the same fate as the Green Paper on trade, which was debated and then quietly disappeared before the appropriate action could be taken.
I would like to thank all my fellow Members in particular as well as the Commission for the document, which was of extraordinarily high quality, which is not always the case.
There are widely divergent views, also within my group, on one key issue in particular, namely the future role of open coordination, and whether everything can be coordinated or whether in many areas it should be the Member States which take responsibility and fundamentally improve the framework conditions for business start-ups and industrial policy decisions.
A few years ago in Lisbon, the European Union set itself the objective of becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
I am convinced that this objective concerns industry most of all, manufacturing industry in particular, because the industrial base is the backbone, the economic engine for growth in the European Union.
This communication at long last raises the question of what the European authorities can do to help our industry.
According to the Commission, industrial policy can have only one objective: competitiveness.
The balanced three-pillar approach – economic, environmental and social – really must be our guide in our analysis of competitiveness.
European competitiveness must be competitiveness in research, skills, manpower training, productivity, respect for the environment and, last but not least, the quality of industrial relations.
As for the means of achieving that objective, we know that industrial policy results from the interaction of policies in a number of fields: research, training, competition policy, the internal market, taxation, employment and social affairs, and many other fields besides.
While the European Union has a considerable involvement in many of these fields, it is essential that we find the best way of coordinating all those different instruments in order to arrive at a genuine industrial strategy for the European Union.
The Commission communication asks the right questions but fails to offer enough definite answers.
The communication opens a genuine debate, as we shall see this evening.
Parliament will do so through this report.
That is why we are asking the Commission to embody the ideas expressed in this communication in an action plan, which will then be submitted to the Council and Parliament for adoption.
Firstly, the aims of industrial policy must be incorporated into all the Community’s common policies, especially the policy on competition and the control of state aids.
Sixthly, implementation of this industrial policy must include the dimension of dialogue between management and labour: a good industrial policy can only come about in cooperation with employers and worker representatives and certainly not in opposition to them or without them.
Finally, other crucial factors we should mention are education, training and skills: human resources or human capital are in fact increasingly important for industrial competitiveness.
A good European industrial policy must not only take the opportunities offered by the new sectors of the future, but must also be capable of anticipating change in the traditional sectors so as to best manage the restructuring at both social, territorial and economic levels.
The subject of industrial policy is therefore at the heart of our debates.
You only have to read the conclusions of the last European Council.
We need to work towards a balanced approach to sustainable development, where the three pillars – economic, social and environmental – are balanced and progress in parallel.
If economic development is poor, we fail to meet social and environmental objectives.
The draft report also calls for further action to implement the ideas contained in the communication.
Let me summarise briefly what the Commission has done so far, before turning to how we view the future.
I will give you three examples: regional policy, which can be mobilised more systematically both to promote a culture of innovation and to facilitate the management of industrial change; employment policy, where the social dialogue, at horizontal and sectoral level, has a useful role to play in helping to deal with industrial policy issues; and research and development policy, where the implementation of the so-called ‘3% action plan’ has direct relevance from an industrial policy standpoint.
With regard to industrial policy at the sectoral level, the Commission is putting together a package of activities to address the sectoral dimension of industrial competitiveness.
The Commission will strengthen the analytical basis of our policy through constant monitoring of sectoral competitiveness, and in-depth analysis of selected sectors.
When necessary, specific initiatives aiming to improve the competitive situation of the sectors will be proposed.
The textile sector is one of the first sectors undergoing an in-depth competitive analysis of the type described in the communication.
At the same time the maritime industries will also be the subject of such an initiative and next week the ‘Leadership 2015’ programme will be presented.
The Commission will make a communication on that basis.
Turning now to the future, the Commission will need to report on the steps it has taken to implement the ideas and principles contained in the communication.
We need to address in more detail and in a more operational way, issues such as: mobilising the appropriate policy tools to deal with the industrial consequences of enlargement; the international dimension of industrial policy, for example in the context of the Commission initiative ‘Wider Europe, Neighbourhood’.
The Commission is currently working on an integrated competitiveness strategy at the request of the Competitiveness Council.
It is clear that there is a need to ensure close coordination between these various policy areas.
I hope that we will be able to continue to count on Parliament’s support in our endeavours to ensure that industrial policy stays at the top of the EU policy agenda.
To understand better how we might exploit Europe’s entrepreneurial potential and to help establish a European agenda for entrepreneurship policy, we published the Green Paper ‘Entrepreneurship in Europe’.
This raised a number of questions with regard to two issues for Europe which, to my mind, are critical.
The action plan will be presented at the end of this year.
We expect to build the Action Plan around three priorities: first of all, reducing barriers for Europe’s existing entrepreneurs, an issue of particular concern to SMEs; secondly, unlocking the ambition of these enterprises for growth; and thirdly, encouraging more new entrepreneurial initiatives.
The Action Plan will suggest a limited number of key actions to be undertaken both by the Commission and the Member States.
The role of the Member States is fundamental.
For many policy areas where action is needed, competence lies at national or regional level.
Appropriate follow-up mechanisms and supporting measures will have to be in place in order to trigger or monitor progress.
While we note that the execution of these budget lines is generally acceptable, quantitatively speaking –&#160;the rates of execution are perfect&#160;– the same cannot always be said of the quality of budget execution, especially as regards very small businesses and the craft trades.
It seems to us –&#160;and you know we have already said so on a number of occasions&#160;– that the Commission is having difficulty in finding ways of channelling funds to this kind of business, be it funds from the European Investment Bank for normative and environmental investments and investments in new technologies, or the experimental funds, especially in the matter of employment law in the enterprise.
We therefore consider it very important that this gap should be filled, because very small businesses and the craft trades make up more than 90% of European enterprises and they are both the creators of jobs and the sources of innovation you want to see.
All such businesses are therefore actively involved in achieving the Lisbon objectives and in the spirit of those objectives.
These initiatives are not simply the work of individuals who are prepared to take risks, they are also the fruit of a general environment that provides equality of opportunity.
It is also up to us to encourage entrepreneurship by creating the conditions that are favourable to business creation.
I hope that in the years ahead we will be able to provide the means for achieving these objectives, which are essential for the fulfilment of our great dynamic vision for the Union’s economic development. &#160;&#160; .
I believe this concern is justified and the question is a legitimate one: do we not speak of a social market economy, of social cohesion?
Especially as there are many obstacles to an effective industrial policy and some of those obstacles are outside its competence.
The first obstacle seems to me to be that the Union puts too much faith in market mechanisms.
A second obstacle is fiscal and social differences.
Sadly, social and fiscal dumping hang over the Union.
A third obstacle is the low level of expenditure on research and investment: we spend 1.07% of GDP while the Japanese, it appears, spend 3%.
Finally, I am not convinced that enlargement is the answer to all our ills.
Since then, our industrial policy ambitions have, however, fallen short because only the commercial approach, that of competition and free trade, has prevailed, and I concede that this has brought benefits.
One of the results, in the context of the far-reaching and inevitable industrial changes we are experiencing, has, however, been a complete failure to anticipate their effects, especially in terms of employment, and the waves of collective redundancies we are seeing everywhere in the Europe of the Fifteen bear witness to that, as has just been underlined.
That is crucial both for employment and for the Union’s social and territorial cohesion.
I would like to stress two points on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, first of all the question of industrial competitiveness.
Those factors are quite different from objective costs.
They are productive factors in their own right and must be given the same attention as the development of research and the application of new technologies.
That means that the company must be in credit, but it also means being in the black yourself, in the interests of your family and your own self-esteem.
If someone is working 40, 50, 60 or 80 hours a week, a fair wage basis must be applied.
The Green Paper says nothing about the fact that equity should really be interest-bearing and how it should be taxed.
What is needed here, therefore, is a fair assessment of performance, and here we need the Competition Council, which will make it possible, quite simply, to shape these fair competition conditions in future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to congratulate both rapporteurs on this excellent report.
As we have heard, the current challenge for the European Union is to identify key factors for building a climate in which entrepreneurial business activities can succeed.
While I fully support the Lisbon aims, we need a stronger commitment by the Member States.
Many enterprises are facing obstacles such as cultural and social barriers, barriers posed by regulation – both from the European Union and national legislation, access to finance and education and training, and, of course, some of the negative media impact.
My concern is that these barriers are currently damaging the potential contribution, both economic and social, of small firms within the European Union.
But why is it that entrepreneurship is important?
You cannot force peopled to become entrepreneurs, but we can legislate and create the right framework.
That is a very good way for us to learn why certain communities are more entrepreneurial than the Europeans. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Commissioner Liikanen and the rapporteurs for their contributions.
Each of our Member States is managing its restructuring as it is able.
The definition of an industrial policy is therefore becoming a matter of public interest.
It would, moreover, be foolish to count on services alone, because it is innovation and productivity, in industry and around it, that create the added value necessary for services to grow.
If national policies continue to diverge, Europe will be incapable of being a base camp for our enterprises in globalisation and the challenge of competitiveness will be lost.
So I am for entrepreneurship, without a doubt, but I think enterprise can only develop if we create the collective conditions for growth in Europe.
That is the advantage of the action plan that has been suggested to us, that is why we need sectoral European projects, a revision of the guidelines for competition policy and Community aids, a commercial policy that is more favourable to our development, and the ability to create partnerships around territorial communities.
The important thing now is to try to build European leaders that will be the foundations for sustainable development.
This recovery will not be possible without involvement and I therefore call for a strategic dialogue between both sides of industry, public authorities and the Community institutions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we need an industrial policy in Europe, but an industrial policy that looks to the future, a green industrial policy.
That is why, as Greens, we want a better targeted research policy and are very much looking forward, impatiently, to the DG Environment’s document on environmental technologies, which has been promised for December, because environmental technologies are one of the responses to future world markets.
One point on which there really is a dividing line in our Assembly is that some believe that creativeness can be created by confusing a large proportion of European citizens.
It is absolutely clear that the market sector rests on the non-market and that Europe lacks a non-market policy in areas like education, infrastructure and creativeness.
The Green Paper on entrepreneurship in Europe tackles many of the important issues and points the way to the essential growth and job creation that are required at the present time.
Such an investment is crucial for Europe's growth potential.
I am convinced that it is the small, local project that offers the greatest potential and that we must particularly aim at an improved framework for small and medium-sized enterprises. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, let us be under no illusions: many people are fully aware and understand the importance of SMEs in Europe, just as they recognise that high taxes and an overblown bureaucracy are stifling the growth of our companies.
I regard the postponement of today’s vote on this motion as a positive sign that some of our fellow Members have recognised this hypocrisy and are taking action against it by lobbying for genuine improvements for small and medium-sized enterprises. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, implementing the Lisbon strategy with a view to improving the competitiveness of our companies is a key element in terms of relaunching the economy and preserving the European social model.
Achieving this objective requires the existence of a broad and dynamic company fabric essentially composed of small and medium-sized enterprises, since these are best suited to the challenges of an environment which is constantly mutating and thereby responding to the concerns of the citizens in relation to employment.
We must reaffirm the importance and value of small and medium-sized businesses as a basic pillar of the European economy and promote the establishment of an environment which guarantees the appropriate training of entrepreneurs, stimulates the creation of companies, promotes their growth, their competitiveness and eliminates the legislative, administrative and fiscal obstacles which hinder entrepreneurial activity in line with the very appropriate proposals in the Langen report.
Otherwise, the Lisbon objectives, which – let us not forget – should lead to the creation, between now and 2010, of 15&#160;million jobs and greater social cohesion, will be reduced to mere wishes that are impossible to achieve. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union needs an industrial policy.
A real industrial policy must be based on large projects and sustained strategies in sectors combining, for example, research and development efforts with the creation of European champions.
By encouraging groupings, for example, we could create champions capable of acting on a world scale, drawing after them a whole sector of job-creating SMEs.
We can think of Airbus, the defence industries or Arianespace, while there are many other fields – you mentioned several – where much more aggressive and vigorous action would be required.
Finally, I will mention policy on lifelong learning.
I will end on this point by pointing out that in our businesses, in our countries, it is easier to give training opportunities to people who are already very highly qualified than to the least well qualified persons.
In Europe, he would be abandoned in legal and financial limbo.
Let us praise success and be pleased to see the rewards of success in our most enterprising fellow citizens.
Only then will we achieve a true enterprise culture in Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in countries such as India, China, Thailand and Argentina, the level of entrepreneurship displayed is truly remarkable.
In the vast majority of EU Member States, on the other hand, the prevailing attitude is one of risk-averse pessimism as a result of poor economic data and many heralded but unimplemented reforms.
Europe will be more capable of holding its own in global competition if there are far more business start-ups, for example.
We will carefully study all of this in the follow-up both to the industrial policy communication and the action plan for entrepreneurship.
So I look forward to seeing you back in this House in early winter next year. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Profit is the driving force which creates entrepreneurship and results in the advancement of individuals, peoples and states. &#160;&#160; Small businesses play an essential part in terms of dynamism, innovation and employment throughout the European internal market.
Only to a lesser extentdoes this system deal with the rehabilitation and social reintegration of the defendants and, more generally, with a crime prevention policy.
The most urgent problem to solve is the existence of major disparities between the national compensation schemes, enormous differences as regards the level of compensation and related procedures in each individual Member State.
Such a situation cannot be considered compatible with the principles underlying the creation of a single area of freedom, security and justice.
The European Union has selected possible objectives to pursue, criticised the difficulties associated with the various legal systems of the Member States, identified the different kinds of needs of crime victims and established the minimum Community measures to be enforced.
The most eagerly-awaited and most important step forward is, however, the desire now to adopt a binding legislative strategy, at Community level, to actively realise the Tampere policy objectives.
Thanks to this directive, it will be possible to take an initial step towards harmonisation of the European criminal law systems as regards the treatment of crime victims, guaranteeing them, with all due respect for the principle of subsidiarity, sufficient attention, recognition of the necessary support and reparation for the harm inflicted, including when the person who committed the crime has not been identified, has disappeared or is unable to pay.
There is not a shadow of a doubt in my mind that these two aims are all the more valuable since 2 of the 15 current Member States, and most of the states which are about to accede to the European Union, still have no compensation system in place.
The proposal’s first aim is to ensure that the opportunity of obtaining state compensation exists in every Member State.
The proposal’s second aim is to facilitate access to compensation for crime victims in cross-border situations.
We feel, therefore, that the system should allow the victim to set these procedures in motion easily, from his or her country of residence.
The directive, therefore, proposes a system of cooperation between the authorities of the Member States.
The Commission is proposing that a manual be established and made available to the authorities.
It shall contain the basic criteria applying to compensation in each Member State, the territorial jurisdiction of the authorities in each Member State, if applicable, and the application forms used in each Member State for this purpose.
The manual thus established shall be available in all of the official languages of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one of the European Union’s primary objectives is guaranteeing freedom of movement.
This freedom of movement can only be exercised, however, if the Union also adopts all measures necessary to protect its citizens, especially if they fall victim to a crime, irrespective of their nationality within the EU and also irrespective of the Member State where they fall victim to a crime.
The citizens of the European Union like travelling, and they do a great deal of it, working in other Member States and also exercising their right to freedom of movement in the EU in a variety of other ways.
Yet any citizen can fall victim to a crime or a terrorist attack in another Member State, or indeed in their own country.
With the entry into force of this directive, all EU citizens and all persons who are legally resident in the EU will receive appropriate compensation if they fall victim to a crime.
As a result of this situation, in recent years criminologists and people responsible for judicial policy have paid particular attention to the situation of the victims of crime, within the context of criminal violations, and the protection of their interests.
It was an important step towards filling the immense legal vacuum which represented, in my opinion, a form of discrimination against the millions of citizens who move freely about the European Union, at risk of being victims of crime, but who are faced with 15 judicial borders, which, in practice, have shown themselves to be incapable of protecting their rights.
I am happy that today we are closer to being able to guarantee compensation to victims, not only in order to alleviate the damage and suffering they experience as much as possible, but also in order to pacify the social conflict resulting from crime and to facilitate the application of a rational and correct judicial policy.
I would also like to stress that, although reparations or compensation should fall to the person who has committed the crime, as the person directly responsible for the damage, in practice, full compensation by the perpetrator of the crime is rarely achieved, either because they have not been identified, or because they have disappeared or are insolvent.
As I have indicated in the amendments approved, it is necessary to restrict the unjust effects resulting from the current varying levels of compensation in the Member States and to guarantee that the citizens of the European Union receive suitable compensation for the damage suffered when they are victims of crime in any part of the Union.
The creation of a genuine area of freedom, security and justice and the exercise of the right to free movement will not be possible unless the Union adopts the necessary measures to protect the citizen when they are victims of crime in any part of its territory, regardless of their nationality, and unless they are compensated for the damage suffered.
This initiative by the European Commission and the work of Commissioner Vitorino is, in my view, the right way to achieve that. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again we have on the table a measure geared towards creating an area of freedom, security and justice – a measure which attempts to respond to the day-to-day concerns of citizens.
It is important to set minimum standards for state compensation, as well as better access to such compensation in cross-border situations, thereby also establishing a last-resort guarantee for victims who are unable to gain access to compensation from the offender or by other means.
We want to prevent the substantial differences between the various Member States from causing unjustifiable variations in the compensation to which citizens are entitled, simply as a result of their having been victims of crime in one part of the European Union rather than another.
That would be incomprehensible, especially in view of the existence of a common area of freedom, security and justice.
I welcome this proposal for a directive, therefore, as well as Mrs&#160;Angelilli’s report.
I would emphasise that the principles of social justice should be respected, and each Member State should be called upon to provide compensation not just to its own citizens, but also to other victims of violence carried out within its borders, such as migrant workers, students, tourists and others. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe it is true to say that there is little that matters to citizens as much as feeling safe and secure in the country in which they live or reside.
There is no point at all in us promoting the free movement of workers across the European Union if our citizens do not feel that they will be protected from crime in whatever state they may find themselves.
This is all the more important when we know that the legal systems vary from one country to another, and the ways and workings of the different police forces and the actions they take are not the same from one country to the next.
We should not forget that violent crime can take place anywhere, in any country.
With regard to these amendments, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, to my mind, Parliament should preserve the essence of an initiative such as this, based on common minimum standards.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A5-0326/2003) by Robert J.E.
To counter this shortage, sadly an abhorrent phenomenon has developed – the illicit trade in human organs.
There are several well-documented cases of EU citizens who have travelled to poorer countries in the world in search of vital remedies for their own failing health.
It is already illegal in 14 out of 15 EU countries for citizens to buy an organ from anyone else.
So, if we outlaw it in our own countries, why can anyone think it acceptable to buy human organs from other countries?
I know there may be considerable consensus tonight on this debate, but I also know that there are alternative views in my own country and indeed elsewhere.
The very welcome accession of the new Member States of the European Union will make it possible to tackle cross-border issues such as trafficking more effectively.
However, if the area of free movement is extended, common rules such as these are essential in order to ensure that criminal groups are not able to further exploit the differences in Member States' laws to their own benefit.
It sets a minimum ten years' imprisonment for offences committed in aggravating circumstances and introduces a much needed element of extraterritoriality, whereby individuals who seek to purchase organs from third country nationals, even outside the EU, would be committing an offence under EU law.
The Commission shares the view of the rapporteur that trafficking in human organs and tissues is a serious violation of fundamental rights and in particular of human dignity and physical integrity.
I believe that your contribution to this debate has been crucial.
I would like very much to congratulate you not only for the report but also for the fact that this debate will definitely contribute to clarifying some of the key elements of this initiative taken by the Greek Government.
With regard to the broader context of this initiative, I note that the report calls, as the rapporteur has just said, for more action in respect of the legal use of organs for transplant, especially the shortage of organs.
The Commission agrees that organ shortage is a major obstacle, and I am pleased to inform you that my colleague, David Byrne, is currently compiling information on the basis of a recent survey in respect of the current situation of organ transplantation in the Member States, acceding states and applicant countries.
He has addressed a very important issue, and the activities of the criminal gangs engaged in the trafficking of human organs are one of the worst examples of organised crime.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy supports the Greek initiative, and we have raised a number of additional points, the majority of which have been accepted by the lead committee.
Our primary concern is to make the impacts on public health even clearer than in the proposal by the Greek Presidency.
I agree with the rapporteur and do not share the opinion of the Commissioner as regards the exceptions.
We should not allow for any exceptions in this text.
It is far preferable to encourage legal and legitimate organ donation.
It is for this reason that I wish to underline the importance of voluntary organ donation.
The underlying cause of organ trafficking is a lack of available organs.
Last year nearly 400 people died in the UK waiting for a transplant.
We all know that there has been a reduction in the number of transplants over recent years in the European Union.
In Greece, the average waiting time for a kidney transplant is over 8 years.
I also agree with the amendment by the European Parliament that trafficking also affects citizens' rights to equal access to health services and undermines confidence in the legal transplant system.
Without doubt, we need a common stand at European Union level on the approximation of criminal legislation, which varies from one Member State to another, strict sanctions and international cooperation to combat the repulsive phenomenon of trafficking in human organs.
There would certainly be no illegal trade in human organs if more citizens were willing to donate organs and tissues after their death.
That is why information campaigns are needed at national and European level in a bid to persuade people to become donors and to make their wishes known to their families and close ones well in advance.
In my country, for example, there has for twenty years been a shortage of organ donors.
In this context, it is actually a disgrace that the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine of 1997, which entered into force in 1999, has to date been ratified only by Denmark, Spain and Portugal.
There are, however, two aspects which the European Union should regulate in this framework.
The first is the guarantee of quality and safety of donation and transplantation, and the second is the prevention of trade in organs, tissues and cells.
We cannot follow the report in one area: we think that – as is, in fact, mentioned in the Greek initiative – the offering and accepting of money for organs, tissues or cells should also be punishable. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
We deplore the fact that as many as 80 people were killed and hundreds were injured in the violent clashes in El Alto, La Paz and other cities and I take this opportunity to express my condolences to the families concerned.
I nevertheless welcome the orderly transition which has resulted in former Vice-President Carlos Mesa Gisbert assuming the presidency of the Republic of Bolivia in compliance with the provisions of its constitution.
My colleague, Chris Patten, made a statement on Monday wishing President Mesa every success at what we surely all agree is a particularly critical moment in Bolivia's history.
The Commission has called upon all Bolivians to work together in an open and constructive spirit to find consensual solutions to the many challenges facing their country.
We are fully committed to assisting the Bolivian authorities during the period of transition.
Recent events have underlined the need to take steps to ensure the effective participation of Bolivia's citizens in democratic and constitutional governance.
In this context, the Commission is ready to devote resources, building on its long tradition of cooperation with Bolivia, to support concrete measures which can improve the capacity of key actors to prevent and manage conflict in this very complex and divided country.
Making use of its rapid reaction mechanism, the Commission initiated a conflict assessment mission, which completed its field work at the end of June 2003.
The Commission also intends to explore with the new government the possibility of re-orienting a limited part of those funds which have not yet been committed from our country strategy paper envelope for 2000-2006 towards a longer term programme with an explicit conflict prevention focus.
The recent events and their dramatic dénouement prove the need for the European Union to continue strengthening its long-standing partnership with Bolivia, to promote respect and trust for democratic principles, to assist with desperately needed economic recovery and to support Bolivia's efforts to alleviate poverty and stamp out social exclusion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in view of the grave events which have taken place in Bolivia, I believe nothing could be more dangerous than to take a simplistic and demagogic view of them, since this would lead us to make serious errors in our interpretation of the situation.
I believe that, in order to approach this problem in a correct manner, we should work on the basis of two premises: firstly, the situation of horrendous inequality, social exclusion and poverty.
That is what happened in Arequipa and, although the two cases are not exactly the same, there are consequences from this Peruvian phenomenon which could perhaps explain, or be applied or extrapolated within the context of Bolivia’s experience.
There are two worrying elements to the situation: one of them is the three months that the leader of the opposition and coca-grower, Evo&#160;Morales, has given them to resolve the situation in the country, and the other is the holding of a referendum on privatisation and the sale of gas.
I also believe, Mr President, that we must reiterate our firm and decisive support for the democratic system, for the Rule of Law and for constitutional order and also express our condolences – as the Commission has done – to the people and the Government of the Republic of Bolivia, for the loss of human lives.
In the compromise resolution we also call for this Parliament to send a delegation to the Republic of Bolivia to analyse the situation on the ground and stress the need to increase efforts aimed at the physical, political, social and economic reconstruction of the country in order to make it governable.
This statement said, amongst other things, that the European Council reiterated its support for the democratically-elected government of Bolivia in its efforts to find a peaceful and constitutional solution to the current crisis and added that the European Council called on the political, social and economic forces in Bolivia to renounce violence and begin a responsible and constructive dialogue with the Bolivian Government.
Mr President, I apologise for taking such a critical tone, but I really feel hugely indignant at the moment, because it is not acceptable for our Union to be supporting this type of policy.
Bolivia is the poorest country in South America.
We must not rob these poor people of the only natural resource remaining to them, having first taken silver from Bolivia and then tin. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Union’s relations with Latin America have almost always been characterised by a favourable attitude to the peaceful and negotiated resolution of all types of conflict, as well as trying to ensure that commercial, social and political relations take special account of human rights and the eradication of poverty and inequality.
The recent conflict in Bolivia therefore reveals all the aspects characterising this situation.
It is possible to establish a direct link between the abusive and unacceptable intervention of the United States, with its interference in the last electoral campaign in favour of Sánchez&#160;de Lozada and against Evo&#160;Morales, and the subsequent shameful delivery of Bolivian gas to the Americans, bringing the poorest country in America even closer to ruin.
Our joint resolution attempts to intervene positively, strengthening democracy, defending the right of people to their own energy resources and condemning the use of excessive violence on the part of the previous government against demonstrators.
Furthermore, we believe that the European Union and its Member States should act in a coordinated way within international financial institutions in order to resolve the serious problem of Bolivia’s external debt.
Finally, we believe that we should call on the Organisation of American States to take measures to protect the lives of the social leaders who have been threatened, such as Evo&#160;Morales. &#160;&#160; I have received 5 motions for resolutions on this subject pursuant to Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure.(1) The debate is closed.
