My thanks especially to all my fellow Members who have taken an active part in defining the text of this Directive, particularly to the rapporteurs, Mrs Weisgerber of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and Mrs Corbey of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, as well as Mrs Hassi of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
I should also like to thank the Commission for its valuable assistance and the Portuguese Council Presidency, which has made a vital contribution to this good result as an open and constructive negotiating partner.
The compromise puts the EU's future air quality policy on a sound footing.
Focussing on the smallest particles in European policy on air quality is therefore long overdue.
The United States is a good 10 years ahead of the EU with regard to legislation in this sector.
The Council and Parliament have been in agreement since the outset on regulating PM2.5 in two phases.
Firstly, there should be a target from 2010 onwards and then a limit from 2015 onwards of 25 micrograms per cubic meter.
It is therefore to Parliament's credit that today we want to reduce the limit for PM2.5 to 20 micrograms per cubic meter in a second stage in 2020.
This has the aim of reducing background concentration and will have a positive effect on the protection of human health particularly in urban conurbations.
As regards PM10, a majority in Parliament lobbied at first reading for an ambitious annual limit, which is also better correlated to the daily limit in force.
With a three-year extension to the deadline for PM10, the deadline extension is guaranteed until 2012 after the new Directive comes into force for local authorities, which have not been able to keep to the limits owing to their geographical position or meteorological conditions, despite all demonstrable efforts.
Even though improving the quality of the ambient air will also be a major challenge for the EU in the future, I should like to raise three points that in my view should be noted when implementing this Directive and when revising the legislation in 2013.
As a new study by the European Environment Agency shows, around 50% of fine dust emissions were reduced in the period between 1990 and 2004 - therefore even before the introduction of the PM10 limits.
Only limited improvements in air quality have been achieved in the past few years in the EU, and the attainability of the PM2.5, as well as the existing standards, has been at the centre of the debate.
The Community measures addressing emissions at source have been outlined in the thematic strategy on air pollution.
PM10 standards will be fully reassessed at the review in 2013 to ensure that the latest scientific knowledge and the implementation experience are properly reflected in the standards.
The compromise package sets out very clear commitments in the text of the review article, demonstrating that a more ambitious annual limit value will be considered as part of the mandatory review in 2013 and by setting the indicative limit value for PM2.5.
The significance of the introduction of a new, legally binding exposure concentration already in 2015 cannot be overstated.
The cities and towns have to draw up clean air plans and create environmental zones, for example, if they do not keep to the limits.
It wants to make legislative proposals, such as the Euro 6 standard for lorries (which ultimately also leads to the compulsory introduction of soot particle filters), emission standards for smaller industrial installations and new regulations for ship's engines.
These particles are more harmful to human health because they can be breathed in.
This also means, however, that there is no tightening of the annual PM10 limits.
Air has become cleaner over the last 30 years, but is still far too polluted.
Last week, Parliament and the Council reached agreement on the new Directive.
This agreement is therefore good news for public health.
The PM2.5 standard was to be reduced from 25 to 20 micrograms.
However, even the new standards are not enough.
Ultimately, we must arrive at a standard of no more than 10 micrograms of particulate matter per cubic metre of air.
We recently voted on Euro V and Euro VI: cleaner passenger cars from 2009 and even cleaner cars from 2014.
My position has always been that it is quite acceptable for Member States who are taking a number of measures but are unable to meet the standards to be given extra time to tackle hotspots; provided, however, that much stricter standards are introduced in the medium term.
At the same time I wish to congratulate the shadows and all those colleagues who have contributed suggestions, advice and amendments, which, at the end of the day, have formulated a piece of compromise legislation agreed to in negotiation, and which will attempt, if implemented, to have a better air quality directive and provide, to some degree, for cleaner and healthier air for Europe.
Our aim should therefore be to find a compromise that will genuinely enable Member States to implement the adopted parameters specifying the admissible emissions ceiling for particulates and gases that contaminate the atmosphere.
It is also true, though, that not all countries are in a position to take rigorous action in this matter in the relatively short time that has been suggested without suffering clear economic losses.
At the second reading on 9 October 2007, the Verts had alerted the Committee on the Environment to the counterproductive effects of administrative simplification and more specifically to the increase in the permitted number of days on which the maximum values could be exceeded and the extension of the exemptions of certain pollutants.
The recently negotiated compromise at the European Parliament's second reading is a damage limitation exercise on the first reading.
Regarding PM2,5 in urban areas, a new limit value is proposed of 20 micrograms per cubic metre, which is to be reviewed by the European Commission in 2015.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, fellow Members, every year 370 000 people in Europe die prematurely from illnesses associated with air pollution.
My political group supports the final conciliation agreement and the hesitant, but at any rate positive steps which it takes in response to this situation.
No agreement has been reached on safer limits for fine airborne particulates (PM10).
This is no mean feat, and is also very important, because ambient air quality has a direct impact on environmental and human health.
Ambient air quality has already significantly improved in recent years, and this Directive will bring further improvement in the future.
In my view, such measures, for example the new Euro VI standard for heavy goods vehicles, are vital in order to achieve good ambient air quality.
More than 300 million people worldwide suffer from asthma, 30 million of them in Europe and 200 000 of them in Hungary.
The number of asthma patients in my home country of Hungary has increased by 250% over the last ten years.
Unfortunately this is also true of legislation on air quality.
Therefore, our primary task now is not to vote for more rules that are even more stringent but to promote compliance with the existing rules.
The place where I live, Budapest, is a city of two million people, and with regard to air particles, for example, it exceeds the permitted limits even in the first four months of the year, and indeed excesses of 4-5 times are not uncommon.
I think the Krahmer report fulfils this requirement.
The compromise is therefore not ambitious but progressive.
I trust that the cities and Member States concerned will now be able to implement it more consistently and that we will perhaps be able to pass on a more habitable Europe to our children.
The levels of air pollution in the densely populated and industrial urban areas of the European Union are still unacceptable.
If you find yourself in the biggest cities of Europe, you can feel the threat of air pollution only too clearly.
This is a key issue in the new Member States, where 20 or even 30-year-old cars in an appalling condition are continuing to pollute the environment.
The position of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and that of Parliament in general is very important to the countries that joined the EU in the 21st century, particularly as regards more stringent terms and objectives for reducing air pollution, the flexibility of implementation of these objectives and the coordination of long-term and short-term goals.
Countries that are taking active measures to reduce pollution but have not yet achieved the set objectives should be given a chance to do so.
One of the aims of this directive is to restrict the quantity of suspended dust particles in the atmosphere in the next few years, particles that we inhale, ranging from 2.5 to 10 microns in size.
The compromise between Parliament and the Council has introduced concessions to the Council, which is in favour of less restrictive regulations.
I hope that the actions envisaged in this directive will not prove inadequate and that when this problem is reconsidered by the European Commission in 2013 more ambitious aims will be adopted, since we are talking here about the health of current and future generations.
It should not therefore be celebrated as a great success because we indeed know that this Directive should in reality have been in force long ago.
Nor should it, however - and this is a positive aspect of the compromise - give German local authorities carte blanche to twiddle their thumbs.
Notwithstanding these reservations, I support the proposal for a directive, as does the GUE/NGL Group, of which I am a member, and I trust that we will return to this topic in a more comprehensive manner in the near future. (FR) Mr President, we all recognise, and we have all said so, that our built-up areas, our cities are becoming increasingly polluted and that, unfortunately, deaths due to this pollution are becoming more and more common.
We also have to provide the public with daily information, especially for those with particular sensitivities, on particulate matter in the air.
At the European Council of 8 and 9 March 2007, the European Union firmly undertook to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020 as compared to 1990.
The Green Paper on urban mobility promotes the development of public passenger transport, but also approaches measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions due to road traffic.
I believe it is extremely important for the Parliament to be informed every 5 years about the progress achieved by the Member States in improving air quality, but I consider it especially important for such actions to be financed from the Structural Funds as well. (PL) Mr President, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on ambient air quality and cleaner air is of major significance for the health of European citizens, particularly since the substances emitted by industry, transport and power plants may be transported over great distances, such as particles and oxides of sulphur, nitrogen and lead.
Air quality is central to our citizens' health and wellbeing.
I am also delighted that we have set strict limits, particularly new limits in the PM2.5 sector, as these are particularly harmful to health.
What alarms me more than the limits we have set, however, is the current air situation in the Member States.
With regard to transport - one of the primary causes of air pollution even in my homeland - it has to be said that the Commission is to some extent not prepared either to support initiatives here that countries are taking in order to adhere to air limits.
We have seen some very significant increases in traffic passing through the Alps and here, too, something must be done with regard to the air. (NL) Mr President, today, the European Parliament is providing clarity in the long-running debate on the specification of the standards required for reasons of public health with regard to particulates: PM25 and PM10.
Most importantly, it contains the following elements: the time extension option for PM10 is kept at the level of the common position; there can be no delay in taking the measures and a single step approach will reduce the administrative burden; standards for particulate matter PM10 are unchanged in accordance with the original Commission proposal; a realistic and timely annual PM2.5 target and a limit value set at 25 µg per cubic metre to be achieved at 2010 and 2015 respectively; an indicative limit value for 2020 that adds to the ambitious PM2.5 agenda for the mandatory review in 2013; a legally binding exposure concentration obligation in 2015 that complements the exposure reduction target in triggering prompt measures that are expected to provide the maximum public health benefit; and a Commission declaration on the progress in developing the Community measures at source.
The resulting compromise, as well as the demonstrated resolve, enables the European Union to take the effective next steps in ensuring healthier air for its citizens.
It can accept the proposed compromise amendments in full.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 11 December 2007.
This is a balanced proposal for the Member States that will feel the weight of its provisions, with a simultaneous improvement in air quality in Europe and, in the longer term, a significant reduction in PM.
in writing. - (HU) The right to clean air may also be interpreted as a human right, since the task of the Member States and the European Union is to ensure basic human living conditions (clean water and air).
in writing. - (RO) The European Directive on air quality will improve the health of European citizens and will contribute to increasing the standard of living in the urban environment.
in writing. - (FI) Today we are discussing at second reading two important directives on improving the quality of the environment.
Protection of the air is one of the key and most traditional areas of environmental protection, because ambient air quality and human health are directly linked.
