President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, I should like to make three comments before I turn to this debate, which has been extremely productive and exciting.
The policy of enlargement does not mean that we are neglecting the European Union's other neighbours.
And of course I cannot fail to mention the forthcoming summit on the Barcelona Process and the Mediterranean Union, which will take place in Paris on 13 July.
Mr Rouček and Mrs De Keyser are absolutely right to say that a great deal of education is needed, with or without Magritte.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am particularly happy to conclude my part in this debate in the presence of a parliamentary delegation from South Africa, as I started my political activity some decades ago in a campaign to free Nelson Mandela.
I am glad that the Brok report and today's debate essentially endorse the renewed consensus on EU enlargement, which was achieved in December 2006 - not least because of the events in 2005.
I cannot help recalling - I have an elephant's memory - that in the autumn of 2004, after a parliamentary hearing, I was criticised by the Committee on Foreign Affairs for a lack of vision because I did not immediately want to provide an accession perspective for Ukraine.
That is why, when we talk of the Western Balkans, we have to say: if yesterday or this week we have a government in Serbia that says it wants to look towards Brussels, towards Europe, then for the sake of ensuring lasting peace in a region that has been a source of conflict for the past 150 years we should accept that offer and further that prospect in order to continue with the peaceful development of our continent.
But I ask that my minute, allocated to me by the PSE Group, be added to Ms De Keyser's time allocation.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 10 July 2008.
Written Statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) The prospect of countries of South-Eastern Europe joining the European Union is the driver of reforms for the democratic transformation of these countries.
in writing. - (RO) The EU enlargement has always been only a matter of time and of making political and economic systems compatible between the Member States.
A short evaluation of the 2004 and 2007 enlargement process shows us a stronger and more dynamic Union, both regarding internal and external matters, which proves to us that the enlargement process has been beneficial both to the Union and to the newly-acceded countries, as well as that, inside the Union, we gather only our values and not our problems too.
It is now important for us to ensure that the criteria are fulfilled not just on paper but in reality - consistency is needed from our neighbours in their preparations, and consistency is needed from the Union in its promises and calls to account.
in writing. - An important start for dealing with further enlargements is a clear understanding that the EU has greatly benefited from all past enlargements.
in writing. - (RO) First of all, I would like to congratulate the Rapporteur for the objectivity with which he expressed the position of the European Parliament regarding the Commission's 2007 enlargement strategy paper.
in writing - (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Chairman of the EU-Croatia Joint Parliamentary Committee, I feel that one of the most positive aspects of the report is the fact that it confirms the continuation of the accession negotiations that have already begun, and offers the Balkan countries the European perspective.
In the last three years of accession negotiations, Croatia has already proved its commitment, and Parliament gave favourable opinions in the country reports for both 2006 and 2007.
in writing - (PL) The prospect of EU membership works as a powerful engine for change in countries interested in accession.
The EU must be open to new countries, but the Enlargement Strategy should fulfil the conditions of the EU Treaty and reflect the EU's obligations towards all candidate countries as well as those countries that have been presented with the prospect of membership, while accepting that full and rigorous compliance with the Copenhagen criteria is an absolute condition.
At the same time, however, the EU will only be able to achieve success in its process of political integration if there is clear and lasting social backing for EU membership in each of the candidate countries as well as for the EU itself as a political and economic project.
in writing. - (PL) We like to say that the European Parliament is the only real forum for airing the views and opinions of EU citizens.
The European Union will not be a complete political and geographical creation until it includes all European countries.
However, our EU European neighbours have a right to a clearer and more effective cooperation policy, a policy that does not result in successive hallways and waiting rooms.
