I also welcome the Secretary of State for European Affairs, Jean-Pierre Jouyet.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have kindly waited for the Extraordinary European Council to end and so I have rushed here to present its results to you.
We, the French Presidency, wanted you to be immediately informed of the decisions taken, not only because we want to keep you constantly updated on our work, but also because the European Parliament has shown itself to be extremely active in recent months on the issue of Georgia.
We want to thank you for this interest and also to inform you of what happened in the Council on 13 August and at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 20 August, on which Jean-Pierre Jouyet is here to present our provisional conclusions.
These troops were in Gori, just 45 or 50 km from Tbilisi.
We therefore thought, with some reason, that the aim of the Russian troops was, as they had said, to respond to the provocation and to liberate South Ossetia, but also to get to Tbilisi and force a change in government.
It was therefore absolutely vital, or at least that is what we thought, for the troops to halt and for the ceasefire to come into force as quickly as possible.
I met up with President Sarkozy in Moscow the next day but, before that, after having spoken to refugees on the Georgian side and to victims that I met at Gori hospital, I and the French Presidency were keen to go and listen to the stories of refugees on the other side, in North Ossetia, who had arrived from South Ossetia after the bombing of Tskhinvali during the night of 7 to 8 August.
At the end of these quite tough discussions, there was a press conference during which President Sarkozy and President Medvedev set out the six points of the French agreement which then had to be taken back to Tbilisi for approval, as amendments had been made between our first trip to Tbilisi and what would be our final stay in Tbilisi, the next day.
On the ground, the Russian troops began to withdraw on 21 August - this being the second of the six points in the document - although this was nearly eight days later.
The ceasefire, which was the first of the six points, was therefore immediate and effective.
In our negotiations a zone was established along the border between South Ossetia and Georgia where Russian patrols would be temporarily tolerated, while awaiting the arrival of observers from the OSCE or European Union.
Given that, in places, this border is only two kilometres from the main road crossing through Georgia, this was not straightforward.
Point 6, which was in a way the most important point, concerned the political settlement and the international discussions or negotiations which had to lead to this political settlement.
We have since then entrusted Javier Solana with driving forward this part of the common foreign and security policy.
An extremely rapid result was therefore achieved: in three days, a ceasefire and troops halted who had been threatening Tbilisi; then, after a few days, in fact eight days, with a few movements before the end of these eight days, withdrawal of these Russian troops to Ossetia and Abkhazia.
You will see that this text is firm in its condemnations but that it leaves the door open as we did not want to engage in a Cold War exercise, as some were proposing.
We convened this European Council because the President of the French Republic, as the President of the Council of the European Union, considered that the crisis in Georgia was serious and directly affected all Europeans.
I believe that we were truly inspired because no one else outside the European Union, in our opinion, could have done this.
You can therefore see in the text our condemnation of the military actions and the disproportionate reaction, the unanimous condemnation by the Heads of State or Government of the 27 Member States of the recognition of the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, and the reminder of the European Union's attachment to the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia, as recognised by international law and the UN Security Council resolutions.
I will now raise some points which I believe we can then discuss.
It recalls that a peaceful and lasting solution to the conflict in Georgia must be based on full respect for the principles of independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity recognised by international law, the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the three UN Security Council resolutions.
The European Council is pleased that the six-point agreement achieved on 12 August on the basis of the European Union's mediation efforts has led to a ceasefire, improved delivery of humanitarian aid to the victims and a substantial withdrawal of Russian military forces.
As regards point 8: the European Council decides to appoint a European Union Special Representative for the crisis in Georgia and asks the Council to make the necessary arrangements.
Finally, at the request of the Germans, Poles and a number of other countries, the end is worded as follows: We call on Russia to join with us in making this fundamental choice in favour of mutual interest, understanding and cooperation.
We are convinced that it is in Russia's own interest not to isolate itself from Europe.
The European Council gives a mandate to its President to continue discussions with a view to the full application of the six-point agreement.
To that end, the President of the European Council will go to Moscow on 8 September, accompanied by the President of the Commission and the High Representative.
It is true that the European Union, through the negotiation of a ceasefire and the prompt delivery of humanitarian aid, in particular by the Commission, has proven its efficiency.
Today's European Council was, in my opinion, very important and, given the complexity of the issues raised by this conflict, the European Union must and had to react collectively and define, by mutual agreement, the appropriate responses.
In my opinion, our meeting today sent out a very clear message on Georgia, aimed at both Georgia and also Russia, in terms of our capacity to respond to crisis situations and the unity of the European Union.
Secondly, our unity is also expressed through the defence of our values.
Since the start of the crisis, as I have already said, the Commission has contributed to the EU's efforts aimed at stabilising the humanitarian and security situation in Georgia in, I believe, a fairly significant way.
As regards aid for reconstruction, last week we sent a Commission expert mission to make an initial assessment of the needs and, according to our initial evaluations, as Bernard Kouchner has already said, which do not include the areas under the control of Russia, the property damage is much less than anticipated.
Around EUR 15 million will be needed for reconstruction and repair.
However, the most pressing need is in relation to the fate of the 22 000 people recently displaced by the conflict.
Around EUR 110 million will be required to meet their needs.
It is important that the European Union shows that it is ready to provide real support to Georgia, as evidence of our political determination to strengthen our relations.
In my opinion, it is also more important than ever to strengthen the instruments of the neighbourhood policy in order to stabilise Georgia.
Its failure, to date, to honour the six-point plan brokered by the presidency and its decision to recognise Abkhazia and South Ossetia are against the basic principles that underpin international relations.
Secondly - and this is my last point - energy is at the heart of our relations with Russia.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation that has developed in Georgia since this summer is unacceptable and intolerable and merits a firm and determined response from the European Union.
Russia has the same rights and obligations as all states in the international community.
One of these obligations is to respect sovereignty and territorial integrity and in particular not to violate internationally recognised borders.
By invading and occupying Georgian territory, and by recognising the independence of the breakaway Georgian provinces of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, the Russian authorities have flouted, one after the other, each of these three fundamental principles of international law.
The European Union must actively participate in the resolution of this conflict and I congratulate the French Presidency on its proactive attitude.
My Group invites the Commission, the Council and all the Member States to demonstrate both their unity and also their resolve with regard to our Russian neighbour.
Our Group believes that Europe must use the means that it has available, and in particular its political and economic tools, to put pressure on Russia and make it respect the agreements that it has signed.
We call on Russia to honour all the commitments that it made on signing the ceasefire agreement, starting with the full and immediate withdrawal of Russian troops from Georgian territory and the reduction of the Russian military presence in South Ossetia and Abkhazia.
We call on the Council and the Commission to review their policy towards Russia, including the negotiations on the partnership agreement, if this country should fail to respect its commitments on the ceasefire.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this crisis has revealed the vulnerabilities of the European Union in several sensitive areas: firstly, our energy supply.
Furthermore, it seems obvious that the role of the European Union could be much greater in the management of this crisis if the European Security and Defence Policy were reinforced.
The Lisbon Treaty allows for this reinforcement.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is a crucial moment and the European Union must not fail to take advantage of this opportunity to show that it is firm and determined with regard to the Russian Federation, however great and powerful the latter may be.
The credibility of the European Union, the stability of the whole region, and the protection of our closest neighbours and even Member States of the Union depend on this.
In the process, some 18 000 lives were lost and around 50 000 people were expelled.
Abkhazia became part of Georgia under Stalin.
The fact is that the European Union has always made clear and unequivocal attempts to achieve an international multilateral solution.
The EU should now concentrate on giving our neighbours our backing and support.
Whatever name we choose for this structure, it is clear that the current Neighbourhood Policy must be strengthened and reinforced and that we must invite everyone in the region who has an interest in the integrity and stability of this region, from Turkey to Kazakhstan, to get involved.
Russia feels strong at the moment because of the high energy prices, but we all know that this is not a sound economic basis for Russia and that it has a lot to gain from partnership and cooperation with Europe.
President Saakashvili cannot have believed that military intervention would evoke no response from Russia.
Equally, Russia's reaction was disproportionate.
You said, 'Les dégâts n'ont pas été considérables,' and yet Commissioner Ferrero Waldner has given us the figures and this House will be called on to agree to pay the bill!
Now it must designate an EU representative who will make both sides listen.
Europe should convene a trans-Caucasian peace conference, bringing together all sides in the search for the settlement of unresolved conflicts.
You did well to strengthen the text of your conclusions in that regard.
The European Union's credibility is therefore also at stake in this dispute.
If it does not, we shall actually be depriving it of the opportunity to review its policy.
In the run-up to the next presidential elections, due in 2012, generating awareness of increasing political and economic isolation is our only chance of sowing doubt and division amongst the dominant group in Moscow.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, in the current situation, we should be discussing what to do now.
I believe that we must now ask some fundamental questions.
The most fundamental question clearly concerns our position towards Russia, our cooperation with Russia and how we are in fact going to solve these problems in the Caucasus, because there is also Nagorno-Karabakh.
We propose to tackle this political problem as follows: we should propose to Georgia and Ukraine a privileged partnership as a first step towards possible integration.
However, we should have political instruments and not just economic and social instruments to bring pressure to bear on these political classes.
We should consider the phrase of François Mitterrand: 'nationalism is war'.
Georgian nationalism, Russian nationalism, Abkhazian nationalism and South Ossetian nationalism is war!
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, with regard to the crisis in the Caucasus, adopting a pro-Georgian or a pro-Russian stance can only lead to deadlock.
This strategy is disastrous for Georgia, for the Caucasus and for Europe.
The brutality of the counter-attack, including against civilian populations, the continued occupation of strategic sectors of the Georgian territory, the expulsion of Georgian populations from South Ossetia and the unilateral recognition of the independence of the two breakaway territories are just as likely to threaten the interest generated in more than one European country by the initial international initiatives of the new President.
The East European countries, the so-called 'Baltic States', inspired by their leaders, want the European Union to show that Russia will pay some unspecified price for its military action in Georgia.
Therefore, it is imperative that the European Union should not be a party to this conflict or take sides with either Russia or Georgia.
on behalf of the NI Group. - (PL) Commissioner, there is a strong link between the outbreak of fighting in the Caucasus and the issue of Kosovo.
The Georgian situation is one such case.
Serbia and Georgia constitute an excellent example of how some are more equal than others in the international arena, and of how international law is always interpreted by the strongest allies.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) I understand that my big mistake, Mr Watson, was to have spoken from this podium.
If you only have that to reproach me for, I can make amends, because the last time I was here, I spoke from this podium and I was not Head of State.
It is in fact the wrong response as, if we had voted for the Membership Action Plan (MAP) in Bucharest, strictly speaking this would not have made any difference because I believe that no one was ready to make war on behalf of Georgia.
This does not mean - because we have said so - that neither Georgia nor Ukraine have the right to become members of NATO.
I believe that, as with all countries, the problem will arise later on for Ukraine and for Georgia, but I truly do not believe that this was the response.
To Mr Swoboda I would say - and this is an anecdote - that I wanted to go and see Stalin's house in Gori, because that is where his house is.
However, we must look at how this series of provocations has arisen because, honestly, the stories are so different that it all becomes very difficult.
I am not going to discuss these because I really have no way of checking them, but the Russians straightaway talked about 1 000 to 2 000 deaths which is no doubt untrue because the only people who went there, namely Human Rights Watch, talked about a few hundred.
In any event, it was a reaction that theoretically was justified by the very high number of victims and, once again, I went to listen to the refugees in North Ossetia and the accounts were dreadful: grenades in basements where children were hiding.
When you realise that apparently the same happened in the Crimea, you can only feel very concerned.
We must therefore tackle this problem with the Russians in an extremely subtle but firm manner.
Three points have been implemented and these were the three most important: ceasefire, withdrawal of troops and access to humanitarian aid.
I believe it was very important to start with these.
Of course it cannot pay, but who should pay the price?
I believe, like Francis Wurtz, that for a very long time Georgia has been encouraged to prove that it is, how should I say, robust and virile.
There are plenty of places - and I do not think that the Russians are interested in these in the same way - such as Nagorno-Karabakh, but also other places, in particular the Crimea.
We must find a way to talk and maintain these channels.
He proposed this on 5 June to you all.
Mr Wojciechowski, that is what we have done.
The initial reaction of our American friends when we decided to get involved was not very kind.
They were then extremely critical, not of the six-point agreement but of the fact that the Russians had not abided by it.
My final point is about Pandora's box and Kosovo.
Unity is the most important signal that we can send out.
It is important, therefore, to make it clear that there will be no negotiations on the partnership and cooperation agreement until there is compliance with the fifth principle of the ceasefire agreement - namely a return to the lines held before 7 August - and that an evaluation of compliance with all six principles of the ceasefire agreement must now begin and continue in the run-up to the forthcoming summit scheduled to take place in November 2008.
However, the EU - and this is also made clear in today's statement - has let it be known in no uncertain terms that what happened there, especially the Russian reaction, is not acceptable and that the disproportionate reaction of Russia to the military developments in Georgia must be condemned.
At the same time all parties have stated that the use of military force is not the right solution and I consider that also to be an implicit criticism of the actions of the Georgian Government which started the military activities.
By doing that he is laying the foundations for an international mechanism to keep the peace and particularly for an international debate about the future status of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and he is dissociating himself, and rightly so, from the recognition by Russia of the independence of these two separatist regions.
That is also our opening position for a mission to Moscow that will take place next week at the highest level and which will again have to put pressure on Moscow to implement those six points.
In these circumstances it goes without saying that our position is that, as long as there is no clarity about implementing this agreement, as long as there is no agreement, we will not engage in any further talks about the new partnership agreement.
This crisis is placing great demands on the European Union.
We, in the European Union, are those people, because the European inclination of Georgia and its people is a fact that we have ignored.
Firstly, it must be acknowledged that this was planned aggression on the part of Russia, and that it started with the systematic provocation of Georgia over many months.
If Russia's aggression and recognition of the independence of the separatist regions are not met with an appropriate response, then that will be a clear signal that it can act in the same way again in the future.
There are many things that Russia needs from us, but we consistently lose the initiative.
At the same time, such an agreement should be concluded with Georgia.
Of course we must have a conference on reconstruction, but we must also have a conference to resolve the conflict.
Both sides have deployed cluster bombs in this conflict as well, which is unacceptable.
International humanitarian law and the law of war have been clearly violated by both sides in this conflict.
That is not the case, and I am pleased that the French Council Presidency has adopted a more balanced position on this point.
We know that, in this war, geopolitical interests are also at stake; I need only mention the oil pipelines in this context.
The conflict should not be used as a pretext to drive forward the militarisation of the European Union.
I am grateful to Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner that she has spoken out clearly on this.
In addition, the current situation in Georgia makes it imperative that the Member States really do press on seriously with a common foreign energy policy, with energy diversification.
Without a robust response to Russian aggression, I fear these matters will not end with Georgia.
If the last few weeks have demonstrated anything, they have been an object lesson in the unworkability of a common foreign policy in this EU.
Today's response from the European Council to these challenges is very clear: we are at a crossroads in our relations with Russia.
We have to be serious, Mr President, because we cannot continue in this way.
I would also warn against the hurried entry into NATO or the European Union of countries which cannot yet offer the necessary guarantees.
We are now all well aware of what has happened - a military action and a disproportionate response - but the fact remains that two countries which had said that they wanted to abide by European values, by becoming members of the Council of Europe, have flouted these principles by using violence.
I therefore beg your understanding when I need to interrupt speakers. (IT) Mr President, the Ossetia and Abkhazia of today are yesterday's Kosovo.
None of the many governments now calling for peace in Georgia can deny their own responsibilities: by recognising Kosovo, the US and most of the European countries set a precedent which was bound to destabilise the Caucasus region.
Owing to the expansion of NATO right up to Russia's borders, the US is politically, even more than militarily, responsible for having encouraged Georgia to mount its surprise attack during the night of 7 to 8 August.
Europe must work towards a peaceful solution, calling both for the withdrawal of Russian troops from Georgian territory and for the people there to have the right of self-determination.
Whether in the Caucasus, Tibet, Africa or elsewhere, one of the challenges of our times is to find a balance between the aspirations of certain peoples to autonomy, on the one hand, and the inviolability of borders, on the other hand.
To say that there was an international decision on Kosovo is a joke because the UN never authorised war against Serbia.
The Warsaw Pact has disappeared but we have not offered any response other than the ceaseless expansion of NATO.
I believe that we have come a long way from Europe's position on Iraq to its current attitude towards the crisis in the Caucasus.
In my view, we should begin by addressing Russia with one voice and making it abundantly clear that there can be no question of reverting to the policy of spheres of influence.
We must speak with one voice as we convey this message to Russia, and do so in a clear and unambiguous manner.
Secondly, the Union must launch two types of long-term action.
I do not wish to be blackmailed by Russia over gas or oil, and I am sure the same is true of everyone else in this Chamber.
Moreover, we have a moral duty towards our own populations, especially those which endured many decades under the heel of Soviet imperialism, to defend these principles of freedom.
However, those - such as Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi - who kept open a channel of dialogue with Moscow also did the right thing, so as to explain Europe's way of thinking and to warn of the risk of re-entering a climate of Cold War, not just from a political point of view, not just from an economic and political point of view, but also and above all from a historical point of view, in that as time passes there is the prospect that Europe can of course include Russia or can exclude it once and for all.
It is therefore very important to open up and maintain a dialogue.
The European Union still has a role to play and our credibility is at stake.
The resolution must be followed by resolute joint action, as Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner has made clear with her encouraging statement today.
We must implement this resolution down to the last dot and comma, just as we are demanding Russia's full compliance, down to the last dot and comma, with the six-point plan.
What is more, over recent weeks, we have seen how important the European Union is and can be, but we have also seen where our weaknesses lie and where we have to take action - including preventive action - to remedy them.
Engagement by the EU is more important than the prospect of NATO membership.
We must invest in economic, democratic, social and educational stability.
Mr President, the main problem we are facing does not concern the answer to the question of who is right and who is wrong; who is the aggressor or who is the victim; what is a sovereign right and what is a disproportionate reaction.
The real problem is that we have no real means to impose a status quo ante or to exert efficient pressure on a country like Russia to revise a certain policy.
A world in which every crisis is dealt with on a sui generis basis is not a world of order, but of disorder.
What we see around us today is not the beginning of a new Cold War, but the end of the unipolar order.
Meanwhile, we must accelerate the process of economic integration, political association and institutional approximation with our eastern neighbours such as Ukraine and Moldova.
Let us hope that the European Union will be up to these expectations. (Applause) (ET) We have already discussed here today the need to send international peacekeeping and civilian missions to Georgia.
As a member of the South Caucasus delegation I support this wholeheartedly, all the more so given that in early spring, speaking in this very spot, I drew attention to the urgent need for these very measures.
History has made many of our countries multi-ethnic, including Georgia.
As though pursuing that theme, North Ossetia's Minister for Population talked about South and North Ossetia merging under Russian law, in other words of South Ossetia becoming part of Russia.
In the view of a number of countries, there is a clash between two keystones of international law here: national self-determination and territorial integrity.
In this context, how should the North Stream and South Stream projects be assessed, together with the support they have received from certain Member States of the Union?
I fully endorse everything the French Minister said.
I shall not repeat any of his words because tomorrow's press will already be full enough of what he has stated here, but I must say that the position outlined by the Presidency of the European Union is a very strong and very precise one.
What I wanted to say is that I believe the European Union has made a step-change: we can say whatever we like in this auditorium but we are not the makers of EU foreign policy and do not have powers to intervene in it; only the European Council can do that.
Today's European Council has shown that the European Union really does exist, that even though the Lisbon Treaty is not yet in force, the EU is capable of addressing itself to extremely important issues.
I should also like to express great appreciation for what has been done by the French Presidency, by President Sarkozy, as well as by Chancellor Merkel and Prime Minister Berlusconi, in this crisis.
The six-point plan must now be brought to life, including, of course, the withdrawal of Russian troops to their positions prior to the outbreak of the conflict.
In other words, it is essential to strengthen the eastern dimension of our policies towards our neighbours through real measures.
In view of the armed conflict, the European Parliament must not confirm Russia's expectations.
The European Parliament should send its own observers to Georgia, to verify information concerning ethnic cleansing.
Mr President, we are witnessing the collapse of the 'end of history' paradigm, but this should also mark the end of the era of wishful thinking, replacing peace through speech with peace through strength and solidarity.
It can no longer be seen as a reliable partner, and clearly does not share our common values.
Everything now depends on EU actions - not just reactions.
I propose the following measures: firstly, a genuine international peacekeeping force - Russia cannot play the dual role of peacekeeper and invader; secondly, freezing the PCA negotiations; thirdly, putting on hold the Nord Stream and South Stream projects; fourthly, freezing visa facilitation; and, fifthly, cancelling the Sochi Olympic Games.
If not now, then when? (Applause) (ET) In spring during the Georgian elections I met, in the town of Gori, a Georgian woman who had been forced to flee Abkhazia 15 years previously.
This conflict is not between Georgians or Ossetians, this conflict did not begin on 8 August, it is not only Russia and Georgia's conflict, it is a conflict of values and it involves us all. (FR) Mr President, I believe it is important to congratulate the French Presidency, President Sarkozy and Mr Kouchner who is here today, not only because they have adopted, in this crisis, a very firm attitude towards Russia, but also because they have managed to maintain the unity of the European Union, a unity which unfortunately did not exist in 2003.
I personally find it very difficult to see what common values I share with a country that uses force, military aggression and a propaganda war to accuse the occupied country of being the invader and aggressor.
The question then arises of what we will do if Russia were to refuse to withdraw its troops.
However, Nord Stream and South Stream also have to be re-examined.
Secondly, I believe that Europe has a fundamental responsibility which can only be met by building, not soft power or hard power, but political power which depends on the unity of all the Member State governments. (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
For many years, Russian power politics have primed the tension in Georgia, which has degenerated into a brief but destructive war.
The Russian military forces have violated international law and invaded the territory of a sovereign state.
The Kremlin has crowned this process by recognising the independence of the two breakaway provinces.
This has given a new dimension to the international political stage.
The EU must press for the sending of neutral, international peacekeepers, thus relieving the peacekeeping forces that have now lost their credibility and authority.
Thank you very much. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Saakashvili adventure is the result of an unpardonable error of judgement: namely, to think that Russia would not respond to military aggression, because military aggression is what took place.
The first thing to do is face the facts: Europe and its unity have been seriously damaged by this error.
We would soon run the risk of having a crisis much bigger than that of August on our hands, and in a country like Ukraine at the heart of Europe.
Today's Council meeting might shed more light on that dark corner of European politics.
If the Council and our Parliament, the last fortress of political conscience in Europe, do not demand immediate withdrawal of Russian occupation forces from Poti and the buffer zones established by the occupier, then political disaster would appear to be looming for our fading Europe.
Let us propose, under the aegis of the European Union, a regional conference on the resolution of the situation and on the future of the partnerships.
No doubt the Russian press will quote those parts of our debate in which the Council's representative and certain MEPs blamed Georgia.
In public, Moscow will express strong criticism of the Council's stance, yet in private it will be delighted.
That does not apply, in my opinion, to the protection of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.
Since the breakup of the Soviet Union, these two regions have not in practice been part of Georgia.
Most inhabitants of these two small states do not want to be subject to Georgia under any circumstances, just as most of the inhabitants of Kosovo do not want to belong to Serbia under any circumstances.
To sum up, there is very good reason to criticise Russia, but not on account of the fact that it has now recognised the de facto independence of these two small states.
Kosovo could not be a unique case ... (The President cut off the speaker) (SK) The events in Georgia paradoxically took place in the month of August, just like in the former Czechoslovakia 40 years ago, when my country too was invaded and occupied for many a long year by the Soviet Army.
I am convinced that the EU must be even more resolute in its opposition to Russia's stance with regard to recognition of the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
I am convinced that the EU's response must be to intensify cooperation with Georgia and especially with Ukraine, not only with words but also by clear and meaningful actions.
Mr President, Georgia is not a simple episode in international politics.
First, it indicates Russia's military comeback, which will have to be reflected in the new European security strategy under preparation.
Sixth, it makes clear that the Black Sea area needs much more attention and involvement from the EU and therefore that it requires more than a simply synergy.
Mr President, I support democratic Georgia's right to seek security in the west and I disapprove of Russia's disproportionate aggression and continued occupation of the country.
The EU must increase its aid to Georgia for reconstruction, fast-track an EU free trade agreement and press ahead with visa facilitation.
We must use this opportunity now, through the EU's common external energy security policy, to break Moscow's stranglehold on Europe's oil and gas supplies.
To balance this, the EU should also support the White Stream pipeline project which will transport gas from the Caspian Sea to Europe through Georgia and Ukraine - both governments supporting this project - thereby circumventing Russia.
Targeting Gazprom's monopoly and Russia's use of the gas weapon as our long-term response will hit Russia hard.
As this debate comes to a close, I should firstly like to thank you for your constant involvement in this matter.
The resolutions adopted, the fact that Chairman Saryusz-Wolski convened the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 20 August and the fact that Mrs Isler Béguin - as she pointed out - went to the conflict region and gave a powerful testimony on behalf of this institution and, beyond that, on behalf of the European Union have confirmed the European Parliament's involvement in this crisis.
The third thought you have had, and you have all had this thought, is that we cannot go very far, despite a rapid reaction and despite what has been done today, because we do not have the instruments needed, because we will only have these instruments if the Lisbon Treaty is ratified and because this crisis has perfectly demonstrated how much we need this Treaty, how much we need to strengthen our foreign policy and how much we need, also, to strengthen our defence policy.
Today was about reviewing the situation on the ground and assessing the consequences for relations between the European Union and Russia.
It was about showing that we are united and that we are active in this conflict.
I would remind you of these: condemnation of Russia's disproportionate reaction; support for Georgia in the financial, humanitarian, economic and political spheres; confirmation of the strengthening of the relationship between the European Union and Georgia; implementation of the six-point conflict resolution plan including - and several of you have stressed this point - the existence of an international monitoring mechanism; commitment of the European Union on the ground by sending a Special Representative; strengthening of the eastern partnership, particularly with regard to the Black Sea area and Ukraine, which was explicitly underlined in today's conclusions, and an energy policy which is more diverse and independent and better organised at European level.
You can count on the Presidency in this respect.
Today, on that anniversary, we are debating a new war which has broken out, but this new war was one which we - the European Union - have been able to stop very quickly.
In my view, the European Union's credibility has played a key role here: credibility and unity.
As the President-in-Office of the Council and I have both said, this was a major test for the credibility and, indeed, the unity of the European Union, but it is a test which we have passed with flying colours.
Assistance for Georgia is important, as we have heard.
We have said that there is a need for humanitarian aid and reconstruction assistance, where we will be looking to Parliament for support.
I should like to thank you, as of now, for your support and will of course be coming back to you with more precise figures.
Mobility was one, the second was the issue of economic partnerships, and the third was enhanced security, which means, of course, that all conflicts, actions and consequences have to be discussed in the case of Russia too.
We are at a fork in the road - a crossroads - but the future will mainly be determined by Russia, for it will be Russia which will be called to account here, just as we have said today: there will be no more negotiations on the new agreement without a withdrawal of troops.
I very much hope that a good solution will be found on 8 September.
This is something we have often talked about, but I am hoping that now, I can perhaps count on more support from the individual Member States.
This is another issue which has been of particular concern for me over the last 18 months, and I can assure you that it will continue to be a very important issue for me personally in future too.
Written statements (Rule 142) As a Rapporteur for the Black Sea region, I have always insistently emphasized the major challenge that unsolved conflicts represent for the regional stability, as well as the need for a EU firm and deep involvement in the above-mentioned region.
Russia's actions in Georgia are regrettable, dangerous in the context of regional and European stability and, implicitly, unacceptable by the international community.
Therefore, it is imperative and urgent for the EU to pass from promises to action, and to demonstrate firmness both in its actions in Georgia and in re-examining its relations with Russia.
For ensuring stability in the Black Sea region, three key principles should guide the EU action.
First of all, all decisions should be based upon compliance with Georgia's territorial integrity and the international law.
This supposes the EU's active involvement in peacekeeping operations in Georgia, as well as in the process of managing and solving the other conflicts in the region, i.e.
in writing. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Jouyet, Mrs Benita Ferrero-Waldner, I must firstly thank my fellow Members who have congratulated the French Presidency of the European Union and welcomed the actions of Nicolas Sarkozy in this difficult conflict between Russia and Georgia.
in writing. - (RO) The EU is not entitled to allow the Georgian scenario to repeat in other conflict regions as well.
The events in Georgia represent a serious test for the EU capacity of response and involvement in the frozen conflicts regions of the former Soviet area.
This obviously indicates the need to strengthen security through the presence of a multinational and impartial peacekeeping force.
The EU should also seriously consider a more consistent process of cooperation with the Republic of Moldova and the possibility to provide, under certain conditions as regards Chisinau's guaranteeing certain democratic standards, a much clearer European perspective for this country.
In this conflict, we lay emphasis on the energy situation in Europe, on Russia's "imperialist” position and on Georgia's nationalism and lack of diplomacy, but we forget that people and, especially, hopes have died in this conflict.
I consider that today, more than ever, we all need to find ourselves part of a beneficial and constructive unity, in a diplomatic and national balance in order to deal with the major challenges waiting for the future generations.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, in recent weeks we have witnessed an attack by Russia on a sovereign and independent state.
It is our political and moral duty to support the people of Georgia and to make Russia understand that the time when it could act at will in its self-proclaimed sphere of influence has gone forever.
Russia's control of oil and gas has made us hostages to the Kremlin.
If, however, we continue investing in ventures such as North Stream and South Stream, we shall be providing the Russian authorities with new and powerful ways of exerting pressure on the European Union.
in writing. - (FR) I must firstly thank Mrs Lambert for the quality of her work.
in writing. - (RO) The great gain of today's extraordinary meeting of the European Council is the unity of Member States.
We must not enter the situation of a Cold War again.
In this context, the review of the Neighbourhood Policy is absolutely necessary.
Countries such as Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia or Azerbaijan should be included in a coherent and accelerated mechanism that, in the case of meeting the necessary requirements, could lead to their future membership in the EU.
in writing. - (HU) Georgia - the illusion of freedom?
In the midst of our work for ever closer integration of the European Union, the Georgian-Russian conflict has come like a bolt from the blue to remind us that force makes decisions even in the 21st century.
Over the next seven years, Russia may spend 190 billion dollars on arms and on developing its army.
It will not be afraid of deploying its army, updated using the dollars from oil and gas - August 2008 was proof of this, at least.
At the same time, I trust that it is clear to my fellow Members and to those taking part in the European summit that it is not the peace of Georgia, Ukraine or Western Europe that is at stake in our current conflict with Russia.
The leaders of the new Member States therefore have a moral responsibility to protect their voters from the increasing external threat.
Sochi is located on the coast of the Black Sea just 20 miles from the border of the Russian Federation and Abkhazia, and therefore in close proximity to a zone of conflict.
For example the construction in progress is wiping out a whole village called Eesti-Aiake or "Estonian Garden" in English, which was founded 120 years ago by 36 Estonian families, who migrated to the Caucasus region in Imperial Russia and who were granted lands there.
The Russian authorities are constructing stands, intended to be used for only 14 days during the Olympics, on the location of the oldest part of the village.
Such outrageous actions violate the natural right to property and therefore should be condemned.
in writing. - The Georgian President, Mikheil Saakashvili, whom the opposition accuses of vote-rigging on a massive scale and widespread corruption, came to office by stirring up extreme Georgian nationalism and promising to force South Ossetia and Abkhazia, which are kindly disposed towards Russia, to become Georgian.
The United States sent 130-170 military trainers to the country, Israel over 100.
Iike Tomer, a code name, was a soldier in an elite unit in the Israeli army enlisted as a trainer by Defensive Shield, a company that sells military services run by General Gal Hirsch, the anti-hero in the war Israel lost against Lebanon.
He has been on both McCain's and Saakashvili's payroll at the same time, and during the last 18 months has received USD 290 000 in fees from Georgia.
in writing. - (HU) According to some people, the crisis in the Caucasus started with President Bush's speech in Riga in 2005, when he announced that a new Yalta Agreement was needed.
He could just as well have said a new Treaty of Trianon, since the misery of many small peoples and countries did not start with the Second World War but with the Trianon Peace Treaty that ended the First World War.
Today, in connection with the crisis in the Caucasus, people are talking about the interests of great powers, about oil and about war, but they are saying very little about the right of self-determination of the peoples living there.
The most important task for the EU in such conflict situations could be to set an example.
The objective is an exemplary policy on national minorities for every Member State of the EU: not in 41%, but in 100%!
A European Union with an exemplary policy on national minorities could even take more effective action in the Caucasus too.
NATO headquarters is clearly aware of this fact.
in writing. - (HU) Forty years have passed since the Warsaw Pact troops crushed Czechoslovakia and overthrew the government that had set itself the task of making the Communist dictatorship democratic.
Unfortunately, Socialist Hungary also assumed a shameful role in the operation, together with the other Soviet satellite states, thus serving the raw, imperialist despotism of Moscow.
in writing. - (PL) I believe great caution should be exercised when assessing the conflict between Russia and Georgia.
There can be no doubt that Russia violated the principles of international law when it crossed into Georgian territory.
Recourse to such action can never be the solution to a dispute.
The European Union has been called upon to perform the very important role of mediator in this situation.
I believe the Union was right to condemn Russia's recognition of the independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.
In my view, given the present situation, it is essential for the European Union to send a peacekeeping and monitoring mission to South Ossetia.
The current situation demonstrates the need for ever-closer cooperation with the countries of the Black Sea area.
I voted in favour of adopting the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in Georgia.
in writing. - (RO) I believe it is very important that, at this delicate moment, Europe shows it is united and supports a unitary position regarding the conflict in Georgia.
Nevertheless, we need to continue to provide assistance and help the reconstruction of the affected regions in Georgia, support confidence-building measures, as well as the development of regional cooperation.
Even if most of the attention is turned to Georgia, taking into consideration the geographical situation of Azerbaijan, I believe we should also have in view the need to establish an EU - Azerbaijan partnership for supporting and continuing the EU's energy projects.
I would like to emphasize that the settlement of frozen conflicts in the Black Sea region can only be achieved within the limits and based upon the international law, in compliance with the territorial integrity of countries and their sovereignty over the entire territory, as well as in compliance with the principle of border inviolability.
I support the Council's position, according to which the European Union is ready to commit, including through a presence on the ground, to support all efforts to ensure a peaceful and lasting solution to the conflict in Georgia.
I believe that only through dialogue and negotiation could we achieve the desired results.
