Consular protection of citizens of the European Union in third countries (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on consular protection of citizens of the European Union in third countries.
Article 20 states clearly, and I quote: 'Every citizen of the Union shall, in the territory of a third country in which the Member State of which he is a national is not represented, be entitled to protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any Member State, on the same conditions as the nationals of that state.
The 1995 decision is a decision between the Member States, reflecting the fact that consular assistance and protection is an exclusive national responsibility and that consular relations are governed mainly by the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations.
The rules on cooperation in this area also reflect the fact that consular assistance and protection are viewed differently in different Member States.
This means that, in the case of a significant incident, particularly in a country where few Member States are represented, one or two Member States can take the lead in coordinating action in matters of protection and evacuation.
A European Consular Training Programme was launched at the end of 2008 with the aim of improving cooperation between consular officials, both from capitals and in the field.
Under Article 20 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, every citizen of the Union, when in the territory of a third country in which the Member State of which he is a national is not represented, is entitled to protection by the consular authorities of any Member State, on the same conditions as the nationals of that State.
Article 20 also provides that the Member States are to establish the necessary rules among themselves to secure this protection.
In addition, Article 20 of the Treaty on European Union obliges the diplomatic and consular missions of the Member States to step up their cooperation.
In December 2008, the Council agreed guidelines for the implementation of the Lead State concept in relation to consular cooperation.
Anyone who is entitled to consular protection from their own Member State is entitled to ask the Lead State for assistance.
The Lead State is also to be given the responsibility for coordinating and leading measures to provide assistance, reunite people and, where necessary, evacuate citizens to a safe destination, with the assistance of the other Member States affected.
However, the Member States need to agree on what exactly is meant by the wording 'in which the Member State [...] is not represented' under Article 20 of the EC Treaty.
The citizens expect the European Union to provide added value in their protection in a third country.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon would provide a clear legal basis for EU legal provisions in this area.
The new wording of Article 20 of the EC Treaty (Article 23 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) allows for the adoption of directives 'establishing the coordination and cooperation measures necessary to facilitate such protection'.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (EL) Mr President, I welcome this debate and I thank both the Council and the Commission for their information and presentation to us.
The dramatic events in Mumbai show us, in actual fact, that this right is far from being guaranteed.
All of what the Council said on the supposed implementation of Article 20 of the Treaty, the 'Lead State', video conferences and joint centres, is pure science fiction in an emergency.
For that reason, the European Commission has the obligation, including before the Treaty of Lisbon enters into effect and obviously afterwards, to implement Article 20, to make European citizens proud of their passport and to make sure that certain officials understand that the 19th century is over and Europe does exist whenever a European citizen is in trouble in New Delhi, Beirut or wherever else.
I do not think that this is a question of having, or not having, a treaty, but rather whether European solidarity is a concept that only features in political statements or whether it is a specific political practice, one that applies to the citizens of various Member States.
We should expand the concept of European solidarity.
It seems to me that, in reality, the Treaty of Lisbon is not a sine qua non. - (SK) According to Article 20 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, every citizen of the Union in the territory of a third country shall be entitled to protection by diplomatic or consular authorities under the same conditions as nationals of that State.
The establishment of joint European offices would ensure the functional coherence and at the same time would cut the structural costs of diplomatic and consular networks operated by Member States. - Mr President, it has been stated already that citizens of the Union travel widely.
This difference in approach between Member States is recognised within the action plan of 2007 and 2009.
To make all this happen, we have heard about the concept of a Lead State, which will endeavour to ensure that all EU citizens are assisted and that it will coordinate between Member States.
But these were promised in the action plan in 2007: a reference in passports, posters, a website in development.
I think it should be seen as a priority by all of us to get the system working because, as somebody else said, you really would feel far more European if a Member State embassy looked after you if you were in trouble when you were in the Far East or in South America or somewhere outside the European Union, and I think that that feeling of Europeaness is very important. (The President cut off the speaker.) (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ever-increasing mobility of European citizens clearly means that consulates must work together.
I think it was simply a matter of a formal obligation for the Germans to assist Mr Guardans Cambó and his delegation, if we are quoting Article 20 and the decision as a whole.
For example, there is a project on including a message in national passports which would inform the holders that they can ask for consular protection from any other Member State embassy or consulate in a third country, provided their country is not represented there.
Third and finally, the Presidency will also organise the two consular seminars or training courses in order to contribute to this consular protection team in a very practical and effective way.
EU citizens must have access to protection and assistance from their own countries, via their diplomatic missions and consulates (Article 3 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and Article 1 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations) and, under the provisions of the Maastricht Treaty, additional diplomatic and consular protection beyond the borders of the European Union, which stems from their status as EU citizens.
In practice, this means that, while staying in a third country where the Member State of which he is a citizen has no representation, all EU citizens have the right to diplomatic and consular protection from any of the other Member States, according to the same principles as the citizens of that country.
The right to consular protection in third countries is one of the main features of European Union citizenship.
I would appreciate it, if the Council and the Commission could assure that the implementation of Article 20 of the Treaty is closely monitored and that every deviation is investigated thoroughly.
