This is the well-known Regulation on the coordination of social security schemes.
I would particularly like to thank the rapporteur Mr Őry for the cooperation between our two institutions.
The Commission is in favour of amendments 1 to 6, 9 and 11, which bring the original text into line with the Council's general orientation, and in favour of amendments 7 and 8, which regulate a particular difficulty which arose recently in a Member State, the Netherlands, after the health insurance reform came into effect.
Together with Mr Őry, I have tabled a number of amendments and I think really that Members should each look at their own Member States when the time comes for the annual adjustment to see whether everything proposed in the administrative consultation has in fact been brought into line with the real situation in Europe.
The first two, Amendments 7 and 8, relate to health insurance for members of the families of military personnel resident in Belgium or Germany.
I understand that, taking into consideration the implementation of the amended Regulation on social security schemes (at present the 1971 Regulation is still in force), we are trying only to change that which it is necessary to change and to adapt it to the changes that have been introduced in certain countries.
However I believe that we have not taken advantage of the opportunity that has presented itself and we have not amended the Regulation in accordance with the direction proposed in the new one.
I wish future Council Presidents every success with that. (PL) Mr President, I would like to support Mr Őry's report.
For a united Europe, harmonisation of social legislation and coordination among the EU Member States in respect of social security schemes is key, since freedom of movement is one of our core values.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) The Regulation that we are amending (No 1408/71) plays a very important part in achieving one of the four fundamental freedoms of the European Union, that is, freedom of movement.
