To our satisfaction, we can conclude today that the Commission, according to its communication of 10 February, is more or less on the same wavelength, and so, apparently, is the Council.
Incidentally, the Council should, in the view of this House, aspire to achieve more transparency in such an important and comprehensive area of policy as relations with Russia.
This current European consensus with regard to Russia is undisputed, but what matters is its concrete implementation, and that is where Europe's self-criticism comes in.
The EU-Russia partnership is based on common values of respect for democratic principles and human rights.
Parliament has expressly advised the Council and the Commission to apply this guiding principle consistently to all areas of cooperation with the Kremlin.
In any event, the situation in Chechnya is completely at odds with the principle of the EU-Russia partnership.
To start with, the Council should lodge a vigorous protest with President Putin against the disappearances, tortures or, worse, the killings of Chechen citizens who had the courage to lodge complaints with the European Court for Human Rights.
Talking of disappearances in the Chechen region, I would refer to the continuing uncertainty surrounding the fate of my compatriot Arjan Erkel.
Much more so than Chechnya, there is another obstacle to the EU-Russia partnership that is receiving political and public attention: the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreements to include all new EU Member States from 1 May 2004.
It is logical in this connection that the European Union should set out its priorities unambiguously and repeatedly and should indicate its so-called red lines during negotiations.
The relatively considerable attention received to date in the Russian media by the proposal for a recommendation gives ample reason to rejoice.
Because a stable and constructive relationship with Russia is essential to the EU, and also because a stable and constructive relationship with the EU is essential to Russia.
The communication which the Commission adopted on 9 February, a communication which heavily influenced the report discussed by foreign ministers on Monday of this week, took as its starting point the interdependence of the EU and Russia and our wish to build a genuine strategic partnership, based on shared values and driven by our evident common interests.
There are positive elements to the relationship, but, overall, we have to accept that the results of five years of increasingly intensive cooperation are not as positive as we expected.
First, a strong, clear and public message was passed to Russia that we expect the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement to be extended to the ten acceding Member States without pre-condition or distinction by 1 May.
It was agreed that the EU should engage with Russia, that we should be ready to discuss all complex issues of mutual interest, and that as part of this approach, the EU should stress that its partnership with Russia is not only driven by common interests but also founded on shared values.
I would like to thank the honourable Member once again for presenting such a thoughtful report and I am sure it will contribute to the outcome that we both wish to see. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, a terrible war is going on in Europe.
The European Commission has decided to threaten Russia with a trade boycott if it does not agree to extending this agreement to the future Member States.
Given this situation, Moscow has mentioned 14 areas of concern, such as transition periods for customs tariffs.
The country has just voted in a more nationalistic parliament than ever and the current presidential election campaign smacks of the same.
The EU ministerial troika now has to take the initiative and make a suitable proposal to resolve this issue prior to the summit, because this is an area of cooperation where we have to find new approaches.
I understand the criticism regarding Chechnya and Sasnovibor, for example, but they are part of the very cooperation that we must now build and eventually obtain results from, so that the benefits are discernible on both sides and in order to end all these peculiar threats, which are inappropriate with regard to the sort of cooperation we need in this day and age. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is very satisfied with Mr Belder’s report on Russia.
On the other hand, we hope there is support by the other groups for our own amendment, which concerns the position of national minorities in Russia.
Recently we in the European Union have been pondering our relations with Russia.
There is, however, another key reason for our failings, something that has been given too little attention in our deliberations.
In the Union there is insufficient knowledge or understanding of the political situation in Russia.
Russia, at least up till now, has not complied with the diplomatic and political principles that we and other Western countries take for granted.
This has been evident, for example, in the fact that Russia has been adamant about not agreeing to extend the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement to the new Member States of the EU.
To be able to realise our own objectives effectively and keep a watch over our own interests, we always have to consider the special political circumstances that obtain in Russia, hard and wearisome though that sometimes is. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, my group strongly endorses the critical positions set out in the Belder report.
There is an unacceptable situation in Chechnya, where the Russian army is engaged in gross violations of human rights.
Moreover, I believe, we ought to be far more serious about concerning ourselves with social conditions in Russia.
The life expectancy of men in Russia has decreased by ten years over the past twelve years – a tragic development, and one that characterises the situation in many parts of that country.
An independent media and judiciary are vital to allow a robust civil society to develop in Russia, which has never yet been a true nation-state.
The elections to the Russian Duma have shown that.
But when, as we have seen in Chechnya, we find that 200&#160;000 people have been killed in nine years, with tens of thousands of cases of torture and rape, that is no longer a human rights violation, it is genocide.
It is something far worse. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Russia is a major and important partner for us, one with whom we are joined – or one could say, from whom we are separated – by two things: shared interests and common values.
Now that the European Union is enlarging, it is vital that the borders between the European Union and Russia should not become new barricades; instead, we should also use them as bridges and as a means whereby the partnership and cooperation agreement may be extended.
We also have to make it clear, though, that the Baltic States’ negotiation of accession to the European Union has helped to put minorities there in a position not shared by minorities in many other parts of the world and perhaps not in certain parts of Russia.
Both by means of technology and through cooperation, we should help Russia to establish exemption from visa requirements, but this must be done in such a way that the Schengen standards for the acceding countries can be maintained, in order to maintain internal security.
This is something else we have to take on board. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the draft recommendation presented by our rapporteur after the draft was amended and supplemented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy is a document that I endorse and have no difficulty in voting for.
The first is the lack of consistency between the governments of the Member States on this matter – a lack of consistency and a lack of coordination.
When dealing with such a large and difficult partner as the Russian Federation, it is intolerable to hear EU ministers, even prime ministers or Council presidents, expressing differing opinions, for example on the painful war in Chechnya or on President Putin himself or on the elections.
Such differing opinions, sometimes expressed only a few hours apart, weaken the Union and damage the credibility of its efforts to have a common foreign and security policy worthy of the name.
Our partnership and our strategy have many facets, which are reviewed in the report, but it all needs to be put in perspective with priorities and much more consistency.
It is true that the EU and Russia have set themselves the long-term aim of creating a common economic space, a common space of freedom, security and justice, a common space of cooperation in the field of external security and a space of research and education, including cultural aspects.
That is all very well, but once again it needs to be done consistently, which will require a great deal of determination, organisation and know-how: in other words, we still have a long way to go. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is very concerned about the evermore authoritarian developments in Russia, linked to the person of President Putin.
The terrible acts of cruelty in Chechnya must cease, and the EU must act in such a way as to help bring about a solution as soon as possible.
The EU needs to have a strategic partnership with Russia.
There are good reasons for being very critical of what is happening in Russia.
The Kaliningrad question is settled now and work on visa-free or flexible travel to the EU should commence once a readmission agreement is struck.
I also urge Russia to withdraw its troops from Transnistria, allow a peaceful reunification of Moldova and consign the Tiraspol gangster regime to the dustbins of history.
These ethnic Russians are being replaced by illegal Chinese migrants, a situation which may cause tensions in the future in that vast, under-populated but resource-rich territory. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is a positive move that the General Affairs Council signalled collectively that the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and Russia should automatically extend to cover the new Member States.
We must ensure that the Union is consistent in its policy on Russia and that in Russia they understand that the EU cannot be split politically.
From the beginning of May, the Baltic countries that join the EU will form just as solid a part of the Union as the old Member States.
Moreover, Russia is committed to compliance with human rights as a member of the Organisation for Cooperation and Security in Europe and the Council of Europe.
It is very important that there are assurances that the work of the OCSE in Chechnya can proceed.
Strategic cooperation based on common values has been spoken of with regard to relations between the EU and Russia.
The EU needs oil and natural gas so there is a need for cooperation on energy to be developed.
The organisation Journalists Without Frontiers has published a list in connection with press freedom on which, out of 158 countries, Russia is in 148th place.
Moreover, the situation is getting worse.
The EU’s relations with Russia are not a one-way street.
The fact that most of the asylum seekers and refugees in Austria are Chechens can only be taken as an indication of how appalling the situation there is, although I do not want in any way to downplay the crimes committed by terrorists against the public in Russia.
I wish to emphasise that the administrative resources and control of the media were such that the parliamentary elections for the Duma on 17 December 2003 can scarcely be said to have complied with international standards.
Russia must act internationally to close down its current military bases in Georgia and Moldova without delay.
Russia must act constructively in the conflict in the South Caucasus, and I wish to issue a special appeal to the Russian Government to solve the protracted conflict between Turkey and Armenia and to promote reconciliation between the peoples of these countries.
Turkey should also recognise the genocide to which the Armenian people was exposed between 1915 and 1918.
Russia has a special responsibility for developments in Belarus, a new neighbour of the enlarged EU, which can scarcely be described as a democracy but, rather, as a country under the authoritarian control of President Alexander Lukashenko.
Last of all, I want Russia to promote freedom of religion in a much more open and tolerant way. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in the aftermath of the profound changes in Europe, relations with Russia have become very complex.
In terms of proportion, one can certainly compare atrocities against civilians in Kosovo and in Chechnya, but it is obvious that our response to Russia will be different – as it indeed is.
There can be no compromise where partnership and cooperation agreements are concerned, nor in relation to their adoption by, and extension to, all the new accession countries; Russia can, for example, take a good look at how customs tariffs change from what they were before, at a time when we had bilateral agreements with some of the candidate countries.
It follows that these countries’ accession to the European Union does not have only detrimental effects.
I support the two main lines pursued in the report.
We must set priority objectives, such as cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime, defence of human rights, democracy, independence of news media and the rule of law, cooperation to resolve conflicts in the region and disarmament; we must also promote improvements to public health and social development.
Europe must indeed play a much greater role in strongly and clearly condemning Russia in its handling of the war in Chechnya.
The desire for a partnership between the European Union and Russia must follow a plan that includes peace and security for all peoples.
It must act and, from that point of view, the report is a step in the right direction. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Violent conflicts have taken place in Ajaria between supporters and opponents of the province’s leader, Abashidze.
Azerbaijan’s president, Ilham Aliev, has met his Armenian colleague, Robert Kocharian.
Generally, such efforts are too little, too late, as was seen in connection with Georgia's Revolution of Roses, in which the EU was overtaken by both Russia and the United States which both pursue classic power politics in their own interests.
If we were to approve this and delete the reference to our own 1987 decision in connection with the deaths of countless Armenians in 1915, the balance of the report would shift in favour of the one side.
Finally, we have all been exposed to lobbying.
This is legitimate and can provide valuable information, but it would not be good if, this afternoon, one of the parties to all the conflicts that exist in the South Caucasus were to be able to declare itself the victor and say that the European Parliament was on its side.
The evolution of the report over a number of years demonstrates the Parliament’s commitment to ensuring that the South Caucasus region attracts the attention it requires.
We have pursued these objectives since the southern Caucasus counties achieved independence in 1991 and we have devoted over EUR 1 billion of assistance to the region.
Time prevents me from covering each of the many issues highlighted in the report in detail, so I hope the House will excuse me for focusing on what I think are two key points: namely, the relationship which the honourable Member referred to between the Southern Caucasus and the European Neighbourhood Policy, and the role of the Commission in assisting conflict settlement.
On the relationship between the Southern Caucasus and the European Neighbourhood Policy, the General Affairs and External Relations Council, in its discussions of 26&#160;January 2004 on how best to support the new leadership in Georgia, concluded thus: 'The Council invites the Commission, in consultation with the High Representative, and taking account of the EU Special Representative’s proposals, to bring forward a recommendation on the relationship of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia to the European Neighbourhood Policy.
Accordingly, the EU is closely monitoring developments in all three countries to see whether there is continued progress towards democracy and in the economic sphere.
On the issue of conflict resolution and reconciliation, the European Commission continues to provide its full support to the OSCE and to the United Nations in their efforts to solve the Region’s frozen conflicts.
We stand ready to assist in post-conflict reconstruction following peace settlements, or to assist measures agreed between the parties to the conflict which would reduce tensions and raise confidence between the two sides.
The very welcome appointment of the EU Special Representative for the South Caucasus in 2003 was an important step for the EU.
The European Commission takes note of the call for a stability pact for the region.
I would like to thank him for what I am sure will be an extremely important contribution to the debate on the EU’s policy for the South Caucasus region. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy actually found it easy to write a report on this agreement, our opinion being, in essence, that we must, as far as at all possible, involve all the states in our geographical vicinity in our research and development programmes.
We are grateful to the rapporteur for being so willing to take our suggestions on board, and also to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy for the excellent cooperation we have enjoyed with them. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the South Caucasus is a region in crisis on Europe’s doorstep, and, ever since the Soviet Union disintegrated and the Nagorno Karabakh conflict broke out, the European Union has had a strategic rather than merely humanitarian interest in keeping it economically and politically stable.
One of the consequences of the enlargement of the European Union is that these hotspots are closer to us, and the prospect of a neighbourhood policy based on the present partnership and cooperation agreement should help to stabilise this region.
Last year, elections were held in all three Caucasus states, and an ad hoc delegation from the European Parliament, of which the rapporteur was a member, found that these elections did not always bear any relation to our democratic conceptions of what elections and democracy are about.
If you combine ethnic conflicts, mass poverty, corruption and a lack of democracy, you get an explosive mixture, to which you can add the still-unresolved conflict centred on Nagorno Karabakh, the consequence of which for Azerbaijan was the loss of 20% of its territory, along with great floods of refugees, and which from 1992 to 1999 alone, cost the European Union something like EUR&#160;180 million.
The appointment of a special representative to the region may, therefore, have been helpful, not least because it gave the EU a more visible presence in South Caucasus.
At the beginning of this year, the foreign ministers, too, took this into account when they called on the Commission and the High Representative to include Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia in the new ‘Wider Europe’ initiative.
If tension is to be reduced, there must be an awareness that, although the concept of a Wider Europe is worthwhile, there is hardly any prospect of it becoming reality unless the countries between which there is conflict involve Turkey, Russia, the USA and the European Union in their efforts at resolving it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the problems of the South Caucasus are as easy to identify as they are difficult to solve.
Commissioner Patten too has spoken about this, but I do not believe that the fight against corruption to reduce poverty and drug trafficking, or even the analysis of the elections can be enough to establish these measures as a strategy for the zone.
It is clearly difficult to operate in a fragile situation in which at least three endemic disputes are simmering.
I do, however, believe that, in the case of the South Caucasus, we need to proceed gradually, step by step, in the disputes and in cooperation; otherwise we risk obtaining a very poor result.
President Putin&#160;–&#160;having the day before yesterday dissolved a government that has always maintained considerable ambiguity towards the countries of the former Soviet Union, and in particular, towards the South Caucasus&#160;–&#160;will also have to indicate some direction for the Caucasus.
The meeting between the European Union and Russia, which will take place next March, could be an opportunity for this to happen.
The interests and values that are all necessary for cooperation must be clarified in both form and substance.
The oil must, in any event, go from the Caspian Sea to the Black Sea.
One simply has to realise that the future situation will not allow a stalemate, or status quo, to continue for long in areas where conflicts rage. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Gahrton has prepared a sound report on the countries of the South Caucasus.
In response to direct questions on electoral fraud that had by then already taken place, he flatly denied any such occurrences and referred to his own, and Azerbaijan’s, role in the Council of Europe.
I would like to say that, so far as the movement of the countries of the South Caucasus towards democracy is concerned, the velvet revolution in Georgia at last opens up what is, we hope, a promising prospect.
This new situation will hopefully draw the European Union’s attention, at last, towards this extremely important geostrategic region and erase the offence that was given when it was omitted from the list of our new neighbours.
There can be no doubt that our Union will reach the Caspian Sea in the future.
The European Union must mobilise all its resources and make maximum efforts to give the South Caucasus this democratic infrastructure, as it has done for other regions, because this region remains a silk road for the European Union.
The Union must invest, really give itself the necessary resources and give real resources to these fragile states, so that the secessionist tensions that are causing difficulties in South Ossetia, Abkhazia and Adzharia, for example, will die down, allowing a lasting peace to be established, based on appropriate statutes.
That is the only way these populations of the South Caucasus will ever have a future, and we all know that.
The development and transition of these small post-soviet countries must be considered not in the light of their present precariousness but in that of the Union’s means and the potential of local resources.
The South Caucasus is turning over a new page in its history.
The European Union’s policy objective is to encourage a willingness to live as a neighbourhood in the South Caucasus and to manage conflict.
Many Members have already made reference to energy policy.
I would like again to ask Commissioner Patten to do everything possible to make it, at the very least, possible for a congress of this kind to be held this year, for these states need the hope that the EU gives if they are to be able to turn away from corruption and build up truly stable democracies. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the Gahrton report on the South Caucasus.
The report is very good; it proposes a policy framework and contains specific, very interesting proposals for this important and sensitive area.
The new president of Georgia is currently in the USA for talks with President Bush.
The credit should be suspended while an independent enquiry is carried out into the safety of the pipeline for local people and the environment, and also into its financial viability, if at least EUR 800 million needs to be spent relaying it.
Turkey's guarantees to the BTC project regarding opt-outs from new environmental and social laws break its obligations under the EU Accession Partnership: they would be illegal if Turkey were already in the EU.
The right of peoples to self-determination is fundamental.
This network is well placed to develop an approach that spans security and economic aspects and promotes regional cooperation and respect for human rights.
In Armenia there is alarm at the widespread problem of human trafficking.
The European Union must not ignore these human rights problems.
We also have just expectations of Turkey to act as a force of stability in the region, stimulate regional trade, enhance regional security cooperation and help revitalise the peace talks.
The funders, including the EBRD and the World Bank, who were providing USD 125 million each, were not aware of these concerns.
I call on the Commission to ensure that there is a proper and exhaustive investigation into this problem. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; On the positive side, the Gahrton report strongly criticises the European Union’s dangerous neglect of the strategic area of the South Caucasus, where there are many sources of potential conflict.
I therefore propose that paragraph&#160;6 be worded as follows: 'Recommends the Council to demand that Russia immediately sign and ratify the already negotiated border agreements with the accession states Estonia and Latvia.' &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, an irritating error has crept into Amendment No 26 under the second indent.
I believe that this measure will help to support rural development in the new Member States and encourage respect for Community legislation on the environment, public health and animal health in the new Member States.
These two measures are accordingly interlinked and should operate in tandem.
Nevertheless, given that the Treaty of Amsterdam gave the Community competences in the area of readmission, and that it is for the Council to negotiate and conclude such agreements, I regret that, as in the case of the first readmission agreement entered into with Hong Kong, the European Parliament has once again not been consulted nor kept informed during the negotiations.
The signing of these agreements at EU level forms a specific part of the objectives of the overall plan for fighting illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings identified as a priority since the Laeken Summit.
With specific reference to the readmission agreement with Macao signed in Brussels on 18&#160;October 2002, that agreement forms part of the political agreement reached in December 2000 when Justice and Home Affairs Ministers decided to exempt Macao passport holders from the visa requirement.
Alongside those agreements, standard readmission clauses were adopted for inclusion in association agreements or cooperation agreements concluded by the EU.
The Commission even recognises that it is a problem for the EU to pressurise third countries to sign expulsion agreements ‘which mainly benefit the European Union’ if they gain nothing in return.
As has already been highlighted, China has not only protested against the intolerable treatment meted out to its citizens by immigration officials, but it has also effectively blocked the EU's efforts to deport people to China.
I have also put a question to the Commission and the Council about their plan for European charters and the EUR 30 million allocated for the purpose.
I agree with the rapporteur when he says the unprecedented acceptance by the Chinese authorities of a readmission clause is to be welcomed and could open the way to the conclusion of a genuine readmission agreement with China. - Report: Frahm (A5-0017/2004) &#160;&#160; .
There is a sense of achievement in closing this dossier that Europe can take significant action which brings real and tangible advantages for our consumers and citizens.
A Parliament authorises or prohibits.
The object of the proposal before us is accordingly to protect human health and the environment against persistent organic pollutants or POPs, which are chemical substances that persist in the environment, accumulate in living organisms through the trophic network – the complex interaction, in a network, of food chains – and which consequently threaten to have damaging and particularly long-lasting effects on human health and on the environment.
National contributions to Community financing should, at the very least, be equivalent to the share of each country in the Community GNP, or else there should be a harmonisation of effort per inhabitant in the Member States for this financing.
The own resources system has undergone many changes of fortune – and has even been blocked at times – largely as a function of trends in traditional own resources, that is to say customs duties and agricultural levies, which have fallen.
However, a fourth own resource was introduced in 1988, in addition to VAT, namely the resource based on GNP or gross national product.
However, I am still waiting for the proposals promised by the Commission, and for that reason, because of doubts I have about the impact of adopting, or not, a single own resource – in particular the implied inevitability that there will eventually be a European tax – I feel obliged to abstain. &#160;&#160; I have voted against the report, which was however approved by 334 votes, with 72 votes against and 42 abstentions.
The report calls for ‘a general review of the own resources system’.
In the margin of the new statute of EU civil servants, there are two problems that require addressing.
After all, European civil servants, like the local population, make use of the municipal infrastructure and other facilities.
Since these people are entitled to vote in council elections, there is an unacceptable situation of representation without taxation.
The Commission and the Council must find a solution to this.
A second problem concerns the fact that the Commission refuses to offer its civil servants who live in Flanders positive incentives to learn Dutch, so that they can become more integrated in their local communities.
I welcome the support expressed for the international campaign for nuclear disarmament initiated by the Mayors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
The European Parliamentary Labour Party believes this resolution to be unbalanced in comparison to the recent EU common position on Weapons of Mass Destruction – which we fully support.
In particular, we cannot support paragraph 2, which seeks to assign a role to the EU which is best dealt with in the context of the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
Let us here pay heed to the call by the mayors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki for a timetable for eliminating nuclear weapons, bearing in mind the Prepcom 2004 meetings and the NPT Review Conference in 2005.
During this session, for example, the European Parliament has just adopted a resolution on the Spring Council calling for better ‘economic governance’ at European level, which means more centralisation of economic policies whereas these must remain a national competence.
The Wallis report also supports the idea of an ‘early warning’ system, as proposed in the draft Constitution, which allows national parliaments to bring violations of subsidiarity to the attention of the Brussels institutions.
But it is window-dressing because it gives the national parliaments no real power of opposition.
The EDD Group also supports monitoring subsidiarity in a way that involves national parliaments at an early stage in the legislative procedure.
The principle of subsidiarity means acting at a higher level if, and only if, this means obtaining better results than would generally be the case with more effective action at a level closer to citizens.
I abstained on the resolution proposed jointly by the large groups on the preparations for the spring 2004 summit because, while full of good intentions, it misses the key elements of the issue.
Could we really expect anything strong, however, from a resolution, which, like many others in this Assembly, is the result of a compromise between the right and the socialists?
The six million jobs created since 1999 prove that we must continue down this route.
The decay of basic environmental features&#160;caused by decades of the West’s unsustainable obsession with productivity, ignoring a number of indicators, including environmental ones&#160;–&#160;is ever more obvious in terms of climate disruption, a fall in biodiversity and a marked increase in diseases linked to pollution.
Symbolising the end of these obsolete patterns of thought and work, a reform of the eco-tax on the basis of an adjustment to tax practices makes a new common economic policy essential, breaking this collusion between economic growth and the use of resources. &#160;&#160; Four years ago the Fifteen promised in Lisbon to make the European economy the most dynamic and the most competitive in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth together with a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater cohesion.
This is why the 2004 Spring European Summit must make a radical break with the Lisbon process.
Since the joint resolution refused to do this, I voted against it. - Report: Randzio-Plath (A5-0045/2004) &#160;&#160; The positive aspect of the report on the broad guidelines for economic policies is the desire to involve national parliaments in the Lisbon process, by making sure that they organise parliamentary debates before the Spring Council.
By attacking the November 2003 decision of the Ecofin ministers to put an end to sanctions against France and Germany for excessive deficits, the European Commission showed that it had too much power.
I also regret the failure to date to achieve the targets set by the Lisbon European Council for sustainable growth, full employment and social inclusion.
A policy should be implemented to boost economic growth and to support short- and medium-term demand, through a commitment to promoting output and jobs with a view to fostering economic growth, employment and social cohesion, and based on a sustained increase in public investment at national and Community level, especially in basic infrastructure, in professional skills and training, in research and innovation, in the environment and in support for small- and medium-sized enterprises. &#160;&#160; The Randzio-Plath report notes that employment prospects have deteriorated in 2003, but puts forward lazy and repetitive explanations.
The same report could have been written two years ago, and the next one will be similar.
This is why I again voted against this recital of absurd dogmas that lead, across Europe, to unemployment and inequalities. - Report: Bigliardo (A5-0044/2004) &#160;&#160; By adopting the Bigliardo report on public finances in EMU, the European Parliament has finally removed from the original text calls for sanctions against France and Germany for not respecting the Stability and Growth Pact.
Nevertheless, I voted against the text as a whole because what remains is hardly better than what was removed.
The Pact itself is indeed stupid, because it imposes a uniform budgetary rule that will always be arbitrary, even if it were to become more sophisticated in future.
It is essential for us to have an expansionist budget policy to secure and accelerate the required economic recovery, and in order to achieve this we need to strengthen public investment both at national and Community level.
I also regret that my proposal to ‘assess the impact of implementation of the Stability Pact on the implementation of the Structural Funds’ has not been approved, given that this is the chief Community instrument for promoting economic and social cohesion. &#160;&#160; The federalist majority in Parliament wanted to make this report a political act of support for the Commission in its dispute with the Council.
Indeed, Europe's economy is faced with a marked decline in investment in both the public and private sectors.
On the other hand, geopolitical events such as the war in Iraq or the SARS outbreak have had a particularly adverse effect on economic confidence and growth in Europe.
As the report quite rightly says, Portugal was the first of the Eurozone countries to have the excessive deficit procedures initiated against it, because of the breach committed in 2001.
Subsequently, the Portuguese Government elected in 2002 has fully committed itself, at the cost of various sacrifices and unpopular measures, to complying with the Stability and Growth Pact.
I did not associate myself with the amendments tabled by the Union for Europe of the Nations Group because they solely reflected issues of special interest to France, which are quite distinct from Portugal's view. &#160;&#160; In 2003, the Commission was forced, for the third year in succession, to revise its economic forecasts downwards.
The European economy is in poor shape, and three countries, including France and Germany which together account for half the eurozone’s GDP, had budget deficits in excess of the limit of three per cent of GDP defined in the Stability and Growth Pact.
The rapporteur emphasises the importance of not bringing the Stability and Growth Pact into question at a time when the European economy is only just ticking over.
It is absolutely crucial to people’s confidence in the regulations that the criteria should be clear, measurable and objective.
It is vitally important that young people are included in our political dialogue to the greatest possible extent.
Indeed without their involvement that dialogue is destined to be very short-lived.
I particularly support the call for attention to be paid to the Commission's information networks and in this respect commend the Commission on the decision it took in November last to reverse its proposed cutbacks in funding for its Euro information centres.
I had communicated with the Commission last October when it announced abruptly that roughly 270 such centres were to see their funding cease and urge them to reverse their decision.
Nevertheless, it does emphasise some aspects and brings forwards proposals which need to be taken into consideration, especially when it calls on the Member States to identify opportunities for young people to participate in decision making at local, regional and national level and to find effective ways for young people's views to be heard.
In this area of participation, however, it is important for certain factors that impact on participation to be taken into account, such as equality of access to education; participation in school life over and above curriculum requirements; freedom and autonomy of association for students; the right to work and to employment with full rights and trade union freedoms; and an appeal to young people to become involved in various social and political areas in connection with diverse local, regional and national circumstances. - Report: &#160;&#160; We completely agree with the intentions, mentioned in the first paragraphs of Mrs&#160;Gröner’s report on youth, to exchange good practices and obtain enrichment through knowledge.
In that respect, we cannot support the Graça Moura report.
We need to pay more attention to recognising and raising awareness of the history of each country, not to rewrite history and restrict ourselves to the ‘European dimension’. &#160;&#160; I welcome the initiative taken by the rapporteur in proposing a European-level debate on the role of schools and school education in maximising public access to culture.
It does, however, mean that we should grasp this opportunity to impart a new impetus to the debate on EU policy towards Russia at the very time when, by virtue of enlargement, we are gaining common borders because of the accession to the European Union of countries previously within the sphere of influence of the former Soviet Union, and that we will inevitably have some important points to make in this area.
The European Union cannot choose its neighbours, but it can choose those countries with which it wishes to cooperate.
No, quite the opposite!
What is at stake here is the need to find ways of making the partnership between the European Union and Russia more effective, not only politically speaking, but also in terms of economics, security and European and world stability. &#160;&#160; The European Parliament is right to indicate its concern about the situation in Russia and to recommend to the Council that it promote human rights, democracy, media independence, the development of civil society, religious freedom, the rule of law, and transparency, with special focus on seeking an urgent improvement of the situation in Chechnya.
On the one hand, there are those who want to take revenge on the old adversary, the Soviet Union, and who consider present-day Russia, above all, as conquered land which must continue to yield up oil and natural gas for some time to come.
If they get their own way, Russia can continue to develop unhindered into a state that intimidates opponents in order to withdraw from any political activity, deprive parliament of its role, crush national minorities with military means and make the environment completely subordinate to expected, short-term, economic benefit.
The Member States should not seek out conflict with Russia, but neither should they, at all costs, avoid tensions with its government.
Rather than adopting a constructive approach of partnership with Russia, the majority in Parliament deliberately chose the easy way, that is to say futile ideology and base condemnation.
These allegedly moral judgments on a situation, the complexity of which human rights zealots fail to see, discredit a European Union which is undoubtedly very immature. &#160;&#160; The problems wreaking havoc in Russia today are quite clear, as is the fact that some of these problems are such as to have a negative impact on relations between Russia and the European Union.
The most worrying of these are the situation in Chechnya, the decline in democracy and curbs on freedom of information, not to mention the declining social climate.
On the basis of this proposal for a recommendation, which objectively speaking has the merit of enumerating the problem areas without any sleight of hand, I consider that the Council would be well advised to use moderation in tackling this issue, as it must not overlook either the vital strategic importance of Russia as a bridge between Europe and Asia or the progress that has been made so far.
I accordingly voted in favour. &#160;&#160; The lack of security prevalent in the three South Caucasus countries, which is undermining their economic development and ‘take-off’, combined with the threat to Europe represented by the instability of those countries, and which was confirmed during the recent general elections in Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia, means that we need to step up cooperation between the European Union and this region.
The atmosphere of political distrust, democratic deficit, widespread poverty and rise in corruption are in fact making the situation in each of these countries more dangerous.
If we add to this internal situation the ever-increasing competition between these countries' neighbours and the great powers for more influence in this strategically sensitive crossroads between Europe and Asia, between civilisations, religions and ethnic groups, we can see the need for international support with a view to stimulating progress towards democracy, human rights, peace, economic development and social justice.
This is also justified by the strong interdependence between these three countries, Russia and the other countries around the Caspian Sea.
The possibility of these countries joining the European Union at some point in the future, which is mentioned by the rapporteur, gives me some cause for concern. &#160;&#160; I voted for the proposal for a recommendation as I believe that the European Union should pay particular attention to the Caucasus region, which since the fall of the Soviet empire has been embroiled in a worrying situation marked by its inability to deal with the numerous problems it faces.
In fact, despite the efforts made by the governments of Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan, progress in establishing the rule of law and a market economy has been slow, and there is cause for grave concern about the management of public funds.
Against this background, the rapporteur has my support for his proposals to establish a Community of the South Caucasus and an Enlarged Cooperation Area covering the Black Sea, the Caucasus and the Caspian Sea.
With regard to these countries' long-term prospects for membership of the European Union, this is something that needs to be considered with realism and caution. &#160;&#160; I have voted in favour of the report, especially since quite a few of my amendments were approved by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy and have now also been approved in plenary.
Thus, the European Parliament has, for example, emphasised to Turkey, in recital&#160;P, that trade blockades constitute an obstacle in the region.
It has also pointed out, in recital&#160;U, that ‘criticisms have been directed by international civil society against the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline project’. ‘Securing religious freedom’ in the South Caucasus has been incorporated into recital&#160;D.
This will be a year of renewal for our Parliament, our Commission and our strategic planning for the next five years.
It is also a moment of renewal in the definition of the relations between the European Union and Croatia.As you are aware, Mr President, this parliament was the first in the Union to give its support by majority to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Croatia, which was the early and indispensable first step on your journey – our common journey – towards fulfilling a Croatian European vision.Our relationship is now at a moment not just of definition, but also of transformation, moving from ambitious declarations to action plans and fulfilling criteria.
It will demand – and I know you have this, Mr President – a deep respect for the rule of law and full, unconditional cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague.
I know that these responsibilities are well understood by those who are charged to lead.Mr President, echoing the private tribute I paid you on a visit to Croatia some months ago, I should like, on behalf of this House, to pay tribute once again to your courageous act of leadership and reconciliation, when, with President Marovic of Serbia and Montenegro some time ago, you respectively apologised for what had happened in the past decade.
It is a human loss which not only hit his family and the Republic of Macedonia, but will also have political consequences for the situation in the region.
This afternoon I was supposed to meet Boris Trajkovski at a conference on investment in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Boris will now not be with us today in Mostar, but we shall continue the work.
It gives me great pleasure to speak before you on behalf of the Republic of Croatia at an important point in time for my country, as well as for the future of the EU: the day approaches when all real and imaginary curtains in Europe will fall – this time, we hope, forever.
I am pleased to note that all the elements of the state authority have reached political consensus in this matter: the Croatian Parliament, the government and the President of the Republic.
This objective was reasserted by a resolution of the Croatian Parliament adopted in December 2002, followed by the application for EU membership, submitted a year ago, in February 2003.
Our primary objective is to reach and maintain the standards that prevail in Europe.
But unlike these countries, Croatia had to face, in its recent past, a war imposed upon it.
I want to state very clearly that we are fully conscious of our duty to fulfil our obligations.
I know that you are interested in our position vis-à-vis the Hague Tribunal.
But being a country in transition, Croatia is facing numerous problems caused by this return.
On the bilateral plane, we have in recent years normalised our relations with Serbia and Montenegro.
We have bilateral cooperation schemes with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we are engaged in intensive political dialogue with all the other countries in the region.
Economic cooperation has also been making progress in recent years.
The only way to address them that I can see are through democratically-elected governments with a pro-European orientation.
The example of Croatia, as a stable country in the region, proves this point.
Closer cooperation of south-eastern European countries with the European Union will have a positive effect on the stability of the whole region.
The Republic of Croatia is ready to take an active role in the region and to transmit its experience to other countries.
Such instruments represent essential and welcome assistance to those who aspire to become members of the European Union, and the Republic of Croatia is prepared to make the best use of them and of other pre-accession instruments.
The Republic of Croatia is especially grateful to President Cox for his invitation to the SAP countries to participate in the Conference of Presidents of Parliaments, held in Budapest in February.
We see our participation at this conference as a signal that the process of enlargement will continue after 1 May this year.
The European Parliament will soon take a decision on the future of the Delegation for Relations with the Countries of south-east Europe.
I would like to use this opportunity to express our unreserved support for the establishment of an individual delegation of the European Parliament for cooperation with the Republic of Croatia.
It would also help to intensify the dialogue between the Croatian Parliament and the European Parliament.
The Republic of Croatia has a high esteem for the support of the European Parliament and for the understanding it has shown for its efforts to get closer to the European Union.
In its resolutions, the European Parliament has repeatedly welcomed Croatia's application for EU membership, thus also showing its support for Croatia's intentions and goals.
Once the borders which provoked the recent bloody war in south-east Europe are removed, the question of who lives on which side of the borders becomes irrelevant.
Only a united Europe is capable of eliminating war as a political tool for the resolution of conflicts and to direct countries in the region towards a more prosperous future.
On the other hand, the forthcoming enlargement will enable the European Union, based on the institutional cooperation of equal partners, to play an important and more active role on the international scene.
United, Europe can face economic challenges from the Far East or from the United States.
It can play a significant role in the system of world peace and security, but also offer humanitarian, technological and economic assistance to those countries and nations that need help.
It may be appropriate at this point to say a few words about the wider context of the enlargement of the Union.
This 'coming Europe' can offer young democracies at least two good reasons to for joining it: political stability and economic competitiveness.
The Republic of Croatia expects to join the European Union soon.
We are convinced that, despite difficulties, the Member States will overcome their differences and reach an agreement on the Constitutional Treaty that will make the enlarged European Union efficient and capable of responding to the challenges it faces, thus securing a more active and important role for it in the international arena.
Croatia hopes that in this respect the European Commission, the European Parliament and the current Member States will demonstrate a long-term vision.
As a country that aspires to join the European Union in the not-too-distant future, the Republic of Croatia has an interest in joining a strong and effective Union that will meet the demands of all its citizens.
We see this as a strategy that will enable the European Union to face the threats and global challenges, thus contributing to the multilateral system of security, as well as to its more active involvement in some parts of south-east Europe.
I would like to stress that the Republic of Croatia strongly relies on the European Parliament as an institution that will support its integration into the EU.
I am convinced that in its recommendation to the Council on the application by Croatia for membership of the EU, the European Parliament will recognise the progress made by Croatia in fulfilling the Copenhagen and other relevant criteria and the reforms that are taking place in the country.
I am equally convinced that the recommendation of the European Parliament will give an impetus to the other European institutions and Member States to adopt a positive stance on the Croatian application.
In June there will be elections, in which most citizens of Europe will take part.
I am convinced that the citizens of Croatia will soon be in a position to vote in the elections for the European Parliament and that Croatian MPs will be able to take up their seats in the European Parliament.
