Vote on request for urgent procedure Mr President, I hope that the House will not accept this request for urgency.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, after studying it carefully, came to the view and reported back that there was no satisfactory legal basis that could be devised for that proposal.
Where a serious question has been raised about the legal basis, the committee responsible, upon considering a new solution to the problem, should surely once again ask for the legal basis issue to be properly looked at, not rush it through under urgent procedure.
This will result in Article 10 being dropped, as Article 10 states that national subsidies are prohibited in an organised market.
With regard to the speech by Mr MacCormick, I would refer you to Rule 63(4) on the verification of the legal basis.
The Commission encouraged Parliament to give its approval to this agreement as quickly as possible.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy has already had a first exchange of views on this agreement.
The Commission shares most of the views expressed during this debate, especially as far as the human rights situation is concerned.
The presidency expressed our satisfaction on the establishment of regular political dialogue, which will be reinforced when the association agreement enters into force.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I admit that I am a little surprised by the Commission statement on the troika visit; perhaps I will have the opportunity, in the second half of my speech, to describe the situation in Algeria.
General Morillon and myself are presenting a joint report on EU/Maghreb Arab Union relations.
The aim of the report is to define the nature and the structure of EU/Maghreb Arab Union relations.
Although we state there is a need to draw up reports on the situation of and relations with the individual countries, such as Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria, Mauritania or other Maghreb countries, our original idea was to try to see if we could move forward relations between the South Mediterranean as a whole, as a possible collective subject, and the North Mediterranean, in other words, the European Union.
Our essential aim is to force the hand, as it were, of the Maghreb countries so that they create a Maghreb Union, in other words, so that they succeed in developing a form of cooperation and that they present themselves as Maghreb to the people of Europe.
That is why we want, for example, the assessment of the association agreements of each country to be carried out within the framework of a structure that is common to the European Union and the Maghreb Union, in other words, a joint delegation, and that Members of Parliament also take part in this assessment and not simply governments or the Commission.
As you know, Article 2 of the association agreements stipulates respect for human rights.
To some extent, Article 2 is a phantom clause.
What we want, first of all, is an initial debate on the development of democracy within the Maghreb countries, and secondly, a debate with the European Union on secularity.
In my view, the main problem of all the Maghreb countries relates to the fact that, in the name of the fight against terrorism and against religious fundamentalism, increasing numbers of laws and government measures have been adopted whose ultimate effect is to suppress these freedoms.
The idea of the report is to establish a structure, to create a Maghreb Union, as a whole, and to form an alliance between the collective of the Maghreb Union and that of the European Union.
I would like to add some of my own thoughts on Algeria.
Algeria is experiencing economic crisis, Algeria is experiencing political crisis, it is experiencing democratic crisis, and the European Union must really ask itself whether it has chosen the right time to sign an association agreement that does not tackle any of these problems.
Like the rapporteurs, my group believes that this is not the place to begin this debate.
On the other hand, I am glad that there have been amendments on three issues I consider to be essential to the report.
Secondly, and in parallel, we must also commit ourselves to the development of those countries and therefore the fact that the European Parliament has not missed the opportunity in this report to promote the creation of a specific financial body for the Euro-Mediterranean area also seems to me to be worthy of praise.
I hope we will be practical and that this formula will be applied in the debate next week in Bari.
Mr President, our group attaches great importance to this report, which comes after Valencia and follows the Esteve report, which received huge consensus in this House.
Often, however, European governments' policies run counter to these principles, and that could place us in a position of conflict with these countries too.
I feel that we should pursue this objective through the association agreement, but dialogue on these issues is a requirement of the association agreement.
Therefore, we will do everything possible to ensure that the consensus approach will allow this report to be effective.
I am going to refer directly to the issue of human rights, as Mrs Napoletano did previously.
I must also say that I was surprised by the Commissioner's comments on human rights in relation to the visit of the troika, a visit which furthermore took place after the elections; I would like to remind you that our visit took place before the elections.
The Committee for Information on Algeria is at work and will publish its conclusions at the appropriate time, in expectation of the work on the report on ratification which is being prepared by Mr Obiols i Germà.
I believe we should not forget the special situation currently affecting relations between the European Union and the Arab Maghreb; the economic association agreements are leading to a genuine unofficial enlargement towards the South and must bring us closer together on such important issues as immigration.
The Maghreb representatives are constantly telling us that they will do nothing about immigration until the European Union offers them clear compensations.
Neither must we forget potentially explosive situations such as the Western Sahara, which is impeding the creation of the Maghreb Arab Union, which is so important if the economic and political union of the Maghreb and its relations with the European Union are really going to be what they should be.
This social situation is, without doubt, connected to the record level of non-participation in the last elections.
The Algeria of today is defined by the citizens' movement in Kabylia, formed in spring 2001 to condemn the repression and killing of 115 young people, is still active in Algeria.
Yes, we must revive formal EU-Algerian relations, since the Algerian people have almost single-handedly been coping with an explosion of terrorist extremism for a decade now, whereas other countries only realised the extent of the danger after 11 September.
With regard to the latter, Algeria must, first and foremost, respect its international commitments on freedom but there is also the question of the social consequences of opening-up the borders and markets and of a policy that, it is claimed, is entirely liberal, at a time when the Union is presenting itself as a fortress.
Lastly, it would, without doubt, be tragic if the genuine democratic potential that exists in Algerian society continues to be wasted, or even stifled.
I would like to end by warning the European Parliament against taking any decision contrary to international law which, since 1991, has been calling for a referendum on self-determination in Western Sahara.
I think that the problem faced by the European Union today is that of strengthening democratic opposition in these countries.
Specific reports must at once be drafted on each country, particularly Algeria and Tunisia.
I therefore feel that the calendar of the Committee on Foreign Affairs must include the reports on each of these countries which, I reiterate, differ greatly from one another, because most of them have very little democracy.
Mr President, in a recent survey in Morocco, 82% of secondary school students expressed their desire to emigrate to Europe.
Last year, more than 100 000 Maghreb citizens tried to enter the European Union illegally.
The differences in economic growth and wealth and the democratic differential between the European Union and the Maghreb is increasing.
We do not have much time left to reverse this trend and it seems to me that neither the Council nor the Commission realise how extremely serious the problems relating to the development prospects of the Maghreb and the countries of the South and East of the Mediterranean in general are.
Mr President, the European Union's foreign policy in the globalised world we are living in must not recognise borders, but the neighbouring countries must receive special attention, both those of the East and those of the Mediterranean, and in particular the Maghreb countries, whose relations with the European Union are the subject of today's report.
I must therefore thank the rapporteurs for having included in their reports one of my amendments, which relates to another working group within the Euro-Mediterranean Inter-Parliamentary Forum, in addition to the one dealing with the situation in the Western Sahara.
However, despite the work done, our group cannot vote in favour of the report because certain elements we consider to be important are lacking and this could be corrected.
The European Parliament draws up laws and directives and therefore its relationship with the UN must be one of respect and support.
This would mean guaranteeing and promoting greater democratic respect in that region, both for the countries of the Maghreb and in their relations with the European Union.
The second issue, which is also very important, and which is partly included in the report, is the recognition that our influence and participation in the economic development of the Maghreb is contradictory.
We believe that the fact that this report does not adequately deal with this crucial phenomenon is a shortcoming which must be corrected, together with others which relate to improving democratic conditions, as other speakers have already said.
Mr President, cooperation between the European Union and the Maghreb countries must be based on a number of basic principles.
Exactly the opposite is true: if anything, the solution is to set up effective measures in fields such as small and medium-sized enterprise and European craft trades in these countries, but such measures are not receiving support.
As chair of the ad hoc delegation sent on behalf of Parliament to this region, to Tinduf and El-Ayun, I cannot stress enough that we must find a political solution, it is a matter of urgency.
The fate of thousands of Western Saharan men, women and children is at stake, people who, for 26 years, have been living in extremely harsh conditions and are awaiting a solution that recognises their rights and their dignity.
Mr President, as some of the previous speakers have pointed out, and as the rapporteurs for the report also observe in recital G, the present conflict concerning Western Sahara remains an obstacle to further regional integration.
Along with this, there is a more detailed agreement signed by the parties, that is to say Morocco and Polisario, in 1997 in Houston.
Although economic issues are of undeniable importance, the political value attached to this partnership is, despite everything, and I repeat, in terms of resolving the problem of Western Sahara, a fundamental aspect, which must be emphasised.
The positive thing about the report presented by Mr Morillon and Mr Cohn-Bendit is firstly that it acknowledges the existence of that conflict, something which the European Union had not done for many years.
In this respect, the situation is still regrettably deadlocked and it falls to the European Union to apply pressure so that it ceases to be so, and to apply pressure in a good sense, because it would benefit the region and would benefit Europe.
Mr President, the intentions set out in this resolution appear, at least on the surface, to be good.
In reality, Europe says a lot but does very little, simply because, deep down, it attaches little importance to its relationship with the Maghreb.
We talk about it, but we almost always talk about it from the point of view of human rights.
Regional development cooperation with a grouping such as the Arab Maghreb Union is entirely in keeping with the policy guidelines formulated by the Euro-Mediterranean foreign ministers at their summit in Valencia on 22 and 23 April.
Thanks to seven newly signed association agreements, North-South cooperation between the EU and its Mediterranean partners now has a proper legal and economic framework.
An agreement will be signed with Lebanon on 17 June and negotiations with Syria are continuing.
That point was made again at Valencia.
Working parties will look in detail at how this closer regional cooperation will function.
There is another initiative that the Commission wants to encourage: the Agadir Declaration of 8 May 2001 in which four Arab countries - Morocco, Tunisia, Egypt and Jordan - proposed the setting up of a free trade area.
The Commission hopes that other countries in the region will join this initiative.
There are two additional points I would like to make on the report.
The Commission is currently planning programmes in Algeria and Tunisia through MEDA and the European initiative for democracy and human rights, and will continue to do so independently.
Ten per cent of funds available under the MEDA programme will be earmarked for regional measures.
Some of these resources could be dedicated to fund intra-Maghreb cooperation.
Thank you very much, Mr Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
Right, we said in the committee second reading, let there be no more animal experiments in the field of cosmetics.
We also want consumers to be better able to ascertain how long cosmetics will last, so that they know, when they open a cosmetic or a sun cream, whether they will be able to use the product next year or whether it will have become harmful to health or have lost its effectiveness.
I hope that, when we vote at noon today, we too will be united in an overwhelming majority that will show the Council how very poor we consider its Common Position to be.
I must admit that I am, at the moment, more concerned about the matter in hand.
My dear colleagues in other groups, you will have my support in doing so.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the seventh modification of the directive on cosmetic products has once again brought two issues before this Parliament which have been widely debated since the first directive was adopted in 1976.
The last revision was the sixth, in 1993.
My group has always supported this amendment and has agreed with the rapporteur that, after so many years of work and unfulfilled expectations in relation to ending animal experimentation, we must deal with this issue once and for all, setting precise timescales, urging and motivating the cosmetics industry to mobilise all its available resources so that, without in any way jeopardising the safety of its products, experiments on animals will be stopped for good as soon as possible.
The Group of the European Peoples' Party, however, has always believed that full compliance with this directive made it necessary for the rapporteur's initial proposal to show a degree of flexibility, while allowing for certain exceptions since, although it is true that the majority of cosmetic products offer the consumer complete safety without their ingredients having to be tested on animals, there are certain cases in which scientists have still not been able to find reliable alternative methods for particular products which are not totally superfluous, such as sun products or creams, which provide a degree of protection from sunlight.
Without allowing the cosmetics industry to delay eliminating its animal experimentation practices, the proposal for a directive allows exceptions for very specific tests and for a maximum period of ten years.
Fortunately, I believe that this amendment has the support of the whole of the European Peoples' Party and that, when it comes to it, it will have the support of the whole House.
I am convinced that a vote in favour by the European Parliament, not just in relation to this amendment, but the whole of the proposal, will finally bring into being regulations which combine animal protection and consumer protection in a balanced and fair manner.
No other issue has taken Parliament so long to deal with as that of animal testing in the matter of cosmetic products.
The answer is to send a signal at second reading, so that the rapporteur and our colleagues of all parties have the strongest possible negotiating position when we come to one of the most serious processes of conciliation we have ever had in this Parliament.
A marketing ban has to be introduced, pressure has to be put on industry to ensure that new alternatives are developed.
That leaves open the option for us all of an ambitious and yet realistic settlement, an agreement between the Parliament and the Council which can end this matter once and for all, putting pressure on the industry but not creating insoluble problems.
I hope that today in the vote later in this plenary we can once and for all put an end to this issue and put an end to unnecessary animal suffering.
Contrary to what the cosmetics industry states, it is possible to produce and sell safe products whose ingredients have not been tested on animals.
The proposed ban would apply only to products tested in the EU and would allow companies to export testing to other parts of the world.
Obviously, animal experiments must not take place in connection with cosmetic products.
Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work, although some of the issues she has dealt with have caused some confusion.
Clearly, the respect to be shown towards animals must also be shown in equal measure to human beings, and it is therefore our responsibility to place a limit on the use of substances with proven allergenic capacity.
The fact is that these last 13 substances include 11 defined as natural essential oils which may as well not be used at all as be used in the quantities laid down, and the concern is therefore not that the quality of the product will suffer but that local farming economies, particularly in the south of Europe and particularly in France and Italy, which produce the basic ingredients - jasmine, citrus fruit in general and bergamot, in particular - will be wiped out.
I would therefore ask you to vote in favour of Mrs Roth-Behrendt's proposal.
In this way, we send a clear message to the Council that we believe that only in this way can unnecessary and unacceptable animal suffering which accompanies the development and sales of cosmetics be brought to an end.
If we involve our WTO partners in the debate at an early enough stage rather than take them by surprise, a way can very well be found.
It is of major importance for industry, science and the government to invest more in alternative methods, as far too little use is still being made of current knowledge due to this approach.
Twenty-five years ago, the Body Shop launched cosmetics that were not tested on animals.
It has proved for 25 years that it is possible.
In this context the Council common position on effecting a marketing ban on animal-tested cosmetics, subject to permission by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, is untenable.
It would be more honest to clarify whether a marketing ban on animal-tested cosmetics is incompatible with WTO rules.
The European Parliament has used the same solid criteria in its desire to ban animal experiments and in its demand elsewhere for a sales ban on animal-tested cosmetics in the EU.
What we need and what this report brings us towards is a ban on the marketing of products tested on animals.
It would acknowledge that for the three tests for which there are as yet no alternatives there would be a maximum of ten years in which to find alternatives, after which those tests would stop too.
It is not entirely appropriate in my view to move from the arguments of substance for and against a marketing ban to a much more convoluted and esoteric debate about WTO law.
I would like to thank Mrs Roth-Behrendt for what she has achieved, and especially also Mrs Christina García-Orcoyen.
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish first to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work, at both first and second readings.
Firstly, the need to ban all potentially carcinogenic or toxic substances in cosmetic products; secondly, a ban on the use of fragrances in products specifically designed for children, given the risks of allergic reaction potentially associated with these fragrances; and, thirdly, the hottest topic of this debate; testing products on animals.
I do not know whether this recourse to the OECD is just another symptom of the intergovernmental shift that has been affecting the Council of late and I therefore believe that the rapporteur's position is the most appropriate one: we must ban testing on animals in Europe, we must move towards a ban on the marketing of these products and towards alternative methods.
I must point out that the first priority is human health and then, of course, respect and protection for animals.
I hope that Parliament will vote in favour of these amendments which give us this facility until such time as these tests can be replaced by alternative in vitro methods.
The rapporteur has struck the right compromise: the ban would not be immediate but could come into force in five years, and that means that, in effect, we have given the companies concerned at least 15 years' notice since we first started discussing this about ten years ago.
I also support the idea that we should demonstrate our own responsibility - a concept which is foreign to the Greens - by introducing a marketing ban as tests are developed where at present there are no alternatives available, even though we then have to set a deadline for these tests, perhaps ten years ahead.
I am very concerned that, on the labelling of fragrances, aromas and essential oils, Amendments Nos 21 and 28 involve the introduction of unnecessary requirements which may have a very unfortunate effect on the composition of products, their continued availability and indeed the viability of some of the smaller firms that make them.
The rapporteur proposes a very comprehensive system of labelling when perfumes and aromas are present in products, even in tiny amounts.
Furthermore, there is a danger that some essential oils would be removed from formulations, thus damaging the economic interests of some countries, including some very poor countries.
I am very grateful to all the Members who have supported me and a similar number of whom will, I hope, support the proposals when we vote at noon today.
I have borrowed the position of the Scientific Committee on Cosmetology, composed of European Union scientists, who have established that 26 substances result in allergic reactions, 13 of them to a severe degree.
The wish expressed by Parliament in its opinion for the first reading to improve consumer protection has, to a large extent, been taken into account in the common position.
The Commission and Council welcome in particular the proposals relating to some categories of products, such as products for children or intimate hygiene or the extension of the minimum durability date requirement.
The Commission shares Parliament's concerns on the use of substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic for reproduction (CMR).
The cosmetics directive already regulates the use of CMR substances in a sectoral manner.
However, to find a consistent and sustainable solution for the substances specific provisions have been introduced to strengthen the legal framework, while complying with the key principle of risk assessment.
Regarding the fragrance allergies issue, the Commission and Council welcome the introduction of a labelling system for allergenic fragrance ingredients.
It leads to a balanced solution offering a genuine benefit to animal welfare, whilst safeguarding consumer health and taking into account the impact of our internal decisions at international level.
The proposed solution to ban animal testing within the EU whenever possible and to make mandatory use of all alternative methods at the earliest opportunity seemed an improvement.
Finally, the European Union is bound to ensure compliance with its international obligations, but an essential objective is to provide the highest possible level of safety.
A total ban on all animal testing would endanger the safety of cosmetics and therefore human health.
The European Union, with the strong support of the European Parliament, is seeking to promote considerations relating to the welfare of animals with the WTO.
Mr Jackson put two detailed questions on Amendments Nos 21 and 28.
On the second part of Amendment No 28, we could accept in principle the listing of these recognised fragrance allergens in Annex 3, according to the suggested modalities, but it should be in the form of a Commission directive.
The Commission would reject the first part.
The proposed amendment to Annex 3 has to be implemented via a Commission directive adapting technical progress adopted under the comitology procedure.
In conclusion, the Commission can accept in principle Amendment No 1, first part, Amendment No 5, first part, Amendment No 27, second part and Amendment No 28, second part.
However, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, second part, Amendments Nos 2 to 5, second part, Amendments Nos 6 to 27, first part, Amendment No 28, first part, and Amendments Nos 29 to 33.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
At last, I feel that a directive can be adopted at second reading which provides the greatest possible guarantees, particularly for patients and consumers, of the quality and safety of blood and its components in order to avoid infections and complications such as those which have caused so many scandals and disasters in the past.
The adoption of a new European directive laying down uniform quality standards for blood will, at last, allow the free movement of blood and its components throughout the countries of the European Union and the removal of unwanted restrictions on the movement of donors from one country to another.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy deleted the clause 'provided that the provisions of Article 30 of the Treaty are met'.
With regard to voluntary and unpaid donations, Article 19 of the common position lays down a number of specific provisions, including, in particular (Paragraph 1) that Member States are to encourage voluntary and unpaid donations and ensure that blood is in so far as possible provided from such donations.
I feel that this is a very balanced provision and this position has already been endorsed in committee.
In addition, still on the subject of voluntary unpaid donations, some of the Members called for the Council of Europe definition to be included in the text, particularly in Article 3.
I broadly support the Council of Europe definition but I feel that it is sufficient for reference to be made to it in recital 23, precisely as it is currently worded, to the effect that this definition 'should' - not 'must' be taken into account by the Member States.
I therefore oppose both Amendment No 7 and Amendment No 19, which seek to include a literal, rigid definition of 'voluntary and unpaid donation'.
Indeed, I feel that some flexibility is necessary in order to encourage donors.
Commissioner, each Member State has a different attitude, different traditions and a different culture when it comes to the definition of 'unpaid', which I feel must be wholly respected.
In conclusion, I hope that this directive will, at last, see the light of day and be adopted.
Mr President, it is not the first time that a very emotional and very passionate debate is taking place on the subject of the supply of blood.
We do however agree on one thing, namely that the safety of the supply of blood must be paramount because too many people rely on blood products.
Mr Nisticò, I am prepared to withdraw my support for Amendment No 7 if you can assure me, in the framework of this subsidiarity, that Amendment No 19 will also be supported, including by Members whose countries operate a different system.
This is a very welcome report and I congratulate our rapporteur.
Having said that, the liberal group, which I am representing here, considers that the common position adopted by the Council is an excellent compromise.
The most important thing, and we would stress this, is to promote the highest possible quality and safety standards for donations of blood and blood components, and it is not by extolling the virtues of obligatorily entirely unpaid donations, I repeat, or by proposing assimilation - thus far scientifically unfounded on grounds of both ethics and quality, as stated by Amendments Nos 7 and 10 adopted in committee and Amendment No 26 - that we will be laying down proper foundations for the future of the blood sector in Europe and providing a practical, sustainable solution to the question of self-sufficiency.
The liberal group will therefore vote against these amendments.
But you must also listen to patients when they tell you that no one with haemophilia or primary immune deficiency will inject plasma products that are untreated or of uncertain quality just because they come from voluntary donors.
The main threat to the blood sector and the lives of patients lies in the lack of medicinal products derived from plasma.
It is in accepting this reality and accepting all healthy donors without excluding anybody that the battle for self-sufficiency will one day be won in Europe.
We also consider that it is genuinely essential, in the interests of quality and patient information, for a medical examination to be carried out on all blood donors before blood is taken.
We cannot accept any challenges to this principle, and we believe it should be extended to the whole of the European Union.
The remuneration of donations could be counter-productive in terms of quality.
Donors motivated by financial gain might be led to deny any health problems they may have, which could have tragic consequences - as in China - for their own health and for the health of recipients.
I am not denying the risks in terms of blood supplies, but I think we can motivate potential donors by means other than money.
It is only through these donors that full supplies of plasma products can be kept up.
The Common Position is a good basis for this.
Mr President, Commissioner, this is the second reading of a very important directive, a directive which concerns our strategy on public health and the safety of European citizens.
The European Parliament has examined this directive setting standards of quality and safety for blood and blood products very closely, because we need to use strict scientific criteria to describe the terms and conditions which must be met in order to safeguard the health of both donors and recipients of blood and blood products to the maximum.
I am delighted that the European Commission adopted a series of important amendments at first reading; however, it also needs to look favourably on another series which it rejected at first reading, but which has been re-tabled and re-adopted in the Committee on the Environment.
The person responsible for the establishment must be not only a doctor, but one specialised in blood donation, because complications or side effects which require medical care or action often occur during blood donation.
Consequently, I agree with the principle of voluntary, unpaid donation because I believe that, apart from the ethical implications, this impacts directly on the quality and safety of blood.
Mr President, in many EU countries - including my own - a lot of work still needs to be done to restore full confidence in the blood transfusion and blood products services generally after a period of tragic lapses in safety.
Quite frankly, the biggest threat to our hundreds of thousands of patients in the EU who need blood and blood products is the lack of an adequate supply.
The supply must be safe but, by definition, a voluntary patient who might have HIV is no safer than a person with no health problems and who is paid.
There is a scarcity of donations in my own country and many others.
The voluntary organisations that look after the interests of patients who need these products are pleading with us in this Parliament and the EU not to ban all sources of paid donations.
We must encourage the ethos of voluntary donation, but we cannot ban paid donations.
With the greatest of respect, it would be arrogant on our part not to do so.
Mr President, blood safety is an important issue for citizens across the European Union.
Most of these products come from the United States of America as there are not enough sources in the other Member States and, sadly, the products have to come from paid sources.
It is of the utmost importance for all EU citizens that the single market in blood and blood products that has been set as an objective cannot work without reliable safety standards.
The Council of Europe has undertaken some important work to increase safety with regard to blood donations and promote the principle of non-remuneration.
I shall wait for the Commission to submit a new proposal in which this important detail can be corrected.
The European public feels that the discrepancies between the Member States' legislation provide no guarantees of safety given the increasing circulation and import of blood products, on the one hand; on the other, they feel equally unsafe due to the events that have taken place in various countries in recent years.
With regard to this issue, I would say that the rapporteur is right and that we should stick to the common position since, on the one hand, it does not ban remuneration, which is essential in some cases in order to overcome shortages, but, on the other, encourages voluntary donations and even allows some Member States to go further by defining more rigid rules that could even prevent the import of blood products that do not adhere to these rules.
Half of all the plasmatic clotting factors currently used in the European Union comes from remunerated donors; either they have made their donation in the EU or their plasma has been imported.
Mr President, Commissioner, the report Mr Nisticò has presented is an excellent one, the content of which I fully endorse.
There is a need for this directive to achieve uniformity across the Member States in matters affecting the safety and quality of blood and blood plasma.
Voluntary and unpaid blood donation is a basic principle and so let it remain.
The directive must not prohibit the import of plasma originating from paid donors either.
It took about 200 years, however, for this theory to be fully accepted.
Thankfully, it has taken a significantly shorter period of time, less than a year and a half, for the Council and Parliament to consider the Commission's proposal presented in January 2001 for a directive establishing quality and safety requirements for blood and blood components.
The proposed amendments before you today are the culmination of considerable efforts on the part of the Council in reaching its common position, the Environment Committee in proposing amendments to that position, and the rapporteur, in cooperation with the Spanish Presidency, in trying to reach a compromise.
Of the 28 amendments proposed by Parliament, eight must be rejected by the Commission.
These are Amendments Nos 4, 7, 8, 11, 22, 23, 24 and 26.
Amendment No 4, refers to "products", a term that covers, in this context, any therapeutic product derived from blood or plasma, including medicinal products based on blood constituents and prepared industrially.
This also applies to Amendments Nos 5 and 6 and, to a certain extent, to Amendment No 1, which is acceptable on balance but is somewhat superfluous without Amendment No 4.
With regard to Amendment No 7, the Commission accepts the view that the definition of "voluntary non-remunerated donation", as defined by the Council of Europe, should appear in the text of the directive.
The discussions in Council, however, have clearly demonstrated that this definition is not sufficiently precise to be included in the enacting terms of a legally binding directive.
For these reasons, the Commission prefers this definition to be incorporated in recital 23.
We therefore reject Amendment No 7 and accept the compromise proposal put forward by the shadow rapporteur in Amendment No 19.
Amendments Nos 8 and 27 propose two slightly different definitions of "haemovigilance".
We accept Amendment No 27 and reject Amendment No 8 because Amendment No 27 reflects more closely the directive's provisions on this issue.
Furthermore, it is not opportune to mention in a Community legal text specific qualifications that are not harmonised at Community level.
Member States, however, have the freedom to impose stricter requirements if they so wish.
I recommend instead voting in favour of the compromise Amendment No 28 by Mr Nisticò.
Amendment No 26 has to be rejected.
Allow me to elaborate briefly on those amendments that the Commission is prepared to accept in part.
These are: Nos 2, 3, 5, 6, 10, 13, 14, 16, 18, 20 and 21.
Amendment No 2, as drafted, clearly is not in line with the limitations of Article 152 of the Treaty.
With regard to Amendments Nos 3 and 21, in relation to personal genetic data, the Commission fully supports the idea behind the proposal, but the examples given for potential misuse of data might be too specific.
Amendments Nos 5 and 6 would only be acceptable if the word "products" were to be deleted for the reasons I have already given in my comments on Amendment No 4.
We believe that in Article 4(2), on restrictions of imports among Member States a reference to the Treaty is clearly necessary in order to avoid any misinterpretation of this sensitive text.
The wording in the compromise Amendment No 20 by the shadow rapporteur provides this reference but the suggestion that voluntary unpaid donations alone can ensure a high level of health protection is scientifically doubtful.
A revised wording indicating that voluntary unpaid donations can contribute to a high level of public health, as already stated in recital 23, would be acceptable.
We are prepared, however, to accept the deletion of the specific reference to Article 30 of the Treaty.
Equally problematic is the proposed reference to Article 19(1), which establishes a Community objective but not a legal requirement.
Therefore it cannot, as such, be used to justify trade restrictions among Member States, which are generally only acceptable for very substantial reasons.
The danger here is that this provision might be vulnerable to legal challenge, which could lead to the directive being annulled.
The Commission fully agrees with the principle of regular reporting by Member States on the issue of voluntary unpaid donations, as proposed in Amendment No 13.
However, this reporting requirement should be brought into line with the reports that Member States have to submit every three years on the overall implementation of the directive.
Amendment No 14 can be accepted in a modified form.
It would be necessary to make reference in Article 20 to quality management, coupled with a new recital which could include all the extra detailed explanations required by the current amendment.
The cross-reference to Article 11 would provide safeguards for testing to be always carried out in accordance with good practice, while the new recital would provide an explanation for the principles behind the procedure.
With regard to Amendment No 16, the Commission is ready to accept the first part, referring to genetic analyses, but not the second part because patents cannot be regulated under Article 152.
The idea behind Amendment No 18 can be accepted in a slightly modified form within the first paragraph of Article 23.
To conclude, it is the Commission's opinion that, with regard to the 28 amendments, agreement between all three institutions remains within our grasp.
The European Parliament is now at a critical juncture where it must make its decision on whether the proposed compromises are acceptable.
I repeat: I agree to include the definition of 'unpaid voluntary donation' in recital 23, but I consider, as I said in the meeting attended by the Commission and the Council, that, ultimately, this should be taken into account by the individual Member States.
If Mr Lund agrees with me on this point - and I feel the important thing is this - I would leave his proposal totally unchanged but I would conclude with an oral amendment at the end to the effect that 'this should be taken into account by the single Member States'.
I am very pleased that, with the position he and the Commission have adopted on the amendments, Commissioner Byrne has confirmed the agreement entered into with regard to Amendment No 19.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
There must be a political response to this in the form of new rules to improve consumer safety.
This report proposes for the first time that the presence of allergenic substances must always, and without exception, be indicated.
Seasonal variations in supply make it particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises to be enabled to react speedily to changes in market conditions by means of the use of the clause with the phrase 'contains .......
Taken as a whole, the Commission proposal improves consumer protection in the European Union and offers consumers greater transparency and more information.
That was a task for us here in Parliament.
When a major amendment to the labelling directive was decided on in 1995, there were similar discussions on the same issues as are on the agenda today.
I believe that it was right for our committee to go further than the Commission, after the abolition of the 25% rule, by also taking an axe to some of the exceptions and exemptions which had been suggested by the Commission.
Amendment No 1 which I moved in the committee and which was carried, would indeed make certain that there could be a single committee responsible for the labelling of products for alcoholic beverages.
I believe that is important and something which has been strenuously resisted over the years by the wine lobby.
Sooner or later, we have to tackle, within this general issue of allergies and labelling, the issue of a special interest which has always stood in the way of accurate labelling of some products and of applying the same provisions to all products.
The question of food labelling is of great importance, as many people have said this morning.
Our legislation must satisfy the legitimate demands of consumers.
But even more important for a sadly ever-growing number of consumers, those who suffer from food allergies or intolerances, is information about the presence of certain ingredients for health reasons.
It is therefore essential that labelling legislation not only ensures that all consumers receive comprehensive information, but also addresses the very real problem of adverse reactions to food.
These are the objectives of the proposal we are discussing here today and I am pleased to note that in general it has attracted a broad consensus of support.
It is absolutely essential to avoid an excessive amount of information which would be difficult for consumers to take on board.
At the same time, the obligation to provide detailed labelling must be accompanied by procedures enabling manufacturers to satisfy this obligation without excessive technical difficulties.
Amendment No 1 would abolish the possibility of having technical implementing rules adopted for the special case of alcoholic drinks under the sectoral management committee procedure.
However, specific labelling provisions are in force for certain alcoholic drinks - wines, for example.
Amendment No 2 would add mixtures of mushrooms to other mixtures, fruit and vegetables, which can be labelled without having to satisfy the rule of descending order of weight and specifies that this option would only apply in the case of mixtures whose proportions may vary.
Amendment No 3 would abolish the possibility of flexibility in the labelling of ingredients used in small quantities - under 5% of the finished product.
However, these provisions which allow for some flexibility of labelling presentation are technically justified, given the obligation to list all ingredients, including those used in very small quantities.
I cannot, therefore, accept these amendments.
Amendment No 4 would abolish a requirement for an explanation as regards repetition where ingredients are used several times in the preparation of a product.
Amendment No 5 aims to remove the provision of not requiring the indication of the composition of compound ingredients used in small quantities - under 5% of the finished product - where the composition in question is covered by current Community legislation which gives the composition corresponding to the trade name.
This derogation would not, however, apply in either additives or allergens.
Amendment No 6 aims chiefly to abolish the derogation from labelling provided for in the proposal for ingredients which make up preparations of sauces and mustards constituting less than 5% of the foodstuffs.
The amendment would remove the advantage of keeping lists shorter.
I cannot, therefore, accept Amendment No 6.
However, residues may be present in the finished product and may cause allergic reactions, even where mere residues or traces of allergens are present.
This part of Amendment No 7 is therefore not acceptable.
The purpose of Amendments Nos 8, 9 and 10 is to add ingredients to the list in the annex.
However, the list proposed by the Commission remains valid and should only be supplemented later on the basis of objective scientific criteria.
Finally, I can agree on the principle that, as requested in Amendment No 11, an interpretative guideline for Annex III(a) would have to be laid down, but only if this is necessary.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
It is a far-reaching proposal as it covers the marketing and use of a large number of textiles and leather articles.
The proposed directive will also encourage the marketing and use of alternative colourants.
However, toys containing dangerous substances or preparations are already banned by the toys directive.
Against this background, the Commission is unable to accept Amendments Nos 1 to 4.
During the debate in Parliament this morning, it was that agreement and that understanding - which it had been possible for both the Commission and the Council to accept and which had been reached on this issue specifically relating to unpaid blood donation - that our rapporteur ran away from.
In this case, I would be in favour of the amendment and it would therefore be a good compromise agreement.
This matter has proceeded in a quite unsatisfactory way, and I am pleased that, as late as this morning, Commissioner Byrne confirmed my reading of the matter and the agreement which Mr Nisticò ran away from this morning.
As I said yesterday, this convoluted wording has but one objective: to avoid clearly recognising a national competence which is a hindrance to the European Parliament.
To avoid admitting this, the text begins by saying that the European Parliament has the right to draw up a list.
What is more, we do not know what they are consulted on either: whether it is the principle of the list or its content.
In one country, this means that during their mandate, MEPs cannot be prosecuted without their own cooperation or without the decision to lift their immunity for punishable offences, and that they are therefore put at an advantage compared to other citizens.
In other countries, like the Netherlands, this merely means that an MEP cannot be prosecuted on the grounds of statements made in the parliamentary debate or in questions as an MEP.
Mr President, each year in Europe alone 38,000 animals are routinely killed after being used to test the development of new cosmetic products.
For nearly ten years the EU has had a ban on the sale of products tested on animals but we have yet to implement this.
The Commission proposal to now replace this sales ban with a mere test ban is totally unacceptable and of great concern in view of massive public demand to end the use of animal testing for cosmetics.
Mr President, in common with the majority of European Union citizens, I believe that the use of live animals in cosmetic testing is an unnecessary and unacceptable practice and must be banned.
I hope that our great strength of conviction will also turn out to have had an effect on the Commission.
Eight thousand ingredients have already been tested and are available for use in industry, and I believe it was essential to reject cosmetic testing on animals.
Some have put forward the public health argument in opposition to the amendments prohibiting these tests, but it must be reiterated that on no account can the results of tests carried out on animals automatically be considered valid for human beings.
Certain alcoholic drinks, such as wine, must obey specific rules on labelling.
I welcome the fact that the scientific criteria for inclusion in the list of ingredients in Annex III are fully taken into consideration and that this list is revised and updated biennially.
Not only have references to the disastrous results of liberalisation, competition policy, agricultural and fisheries policy, the stability pact and the need for welfare benefits, social protection and redistribution of resources and opportunities been removed, it now states that employment is a right and opportunity for those who want to work, with temporary work seen as the only opportunity for many of those who are unwilling to look for or unable to find permanent employment.
In fact, of the 19 amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, 12 of those that were approved sought to remove important aspects of the real strategy that needs to be developed to effectively promote social inclusion and to include the negative approach of defending temporary work, which runs counter to the promise and the idea of full employment.
The report describes the current situation and, I regret to remind you, we have 60 million poor people in the European Union, and this is unacceptable.
The Treaty of Nice confirmed this commitment.
Article 1 of the Charter, which emphasises the dignity of every human being, is key.
Although the willingness that the report seems to express is overdue, it nonetheless represents a positive development in attitudes within the European Union.
Since 1960, when the draft convention on election to Parliament by universal suffrage was adopted, our House has produced five reports which have ended up deadlocked within the Council.
Specifically, it introduces the principle of proportional representation with each Member State having a choice about the type of preferential list it wishes, the incompatibility of the status of a Member of a national parliament with that of a Member of the European Parliament, with exceptions for the United Kingdom and Ireland until the 2009 elections, the power of each Member State to set the ceiling for the electoral expenses of candidates and the power of each Member State to create territorial constituencies which do not affect in a general sense the proportional nature of the elections.
It also brings the 1976 Act into line with the changes introduced by the successive Treaties in the institutions and bodies of the Union and an intelligent solution is found for compliance with the 'Matthews' judgment on the vote of the electorate of Gibraltar.
It is true that Parliament's other proposals have not been included, such as the single constituency for the whole of the European Union, the movement of elections to the month of May and the objective of parity between men and women on electoral lists.
The draft Decision lays down that the Act would be subject to a new review before 2009, by which time Parliament's demands could be incorporated.
I have included this proposal in the recitals, with the support of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because I strongly believe that it is time that the citizens understood who they are voting for and why.
President Gil Robles, whom I would like to congratulate as rapporteur for this parliamentary assent, has said that many drafts have become deadlocked.
Therefore, I am very pleased that it is the Spanish Presidency that has managed to break the deadlock on this issue and that in 2002, under the Spanish Presidency, we will have the first reform of the Electoral Act.
As the rapporteur said, it is true that not all of the aspirations of the European Parliament contained in its previous report, drawn up by our friend and former colleague, Mr Georgios Anastasopoulos, have been taken into account.
And it is also the case that we had to comply with a mandate and resolve an issue which stemmed from a judgment of a Court - in this case the Strasbourg Court - and therefore adapt our electoral system to the judgment in the Matthews case.
Like the rapporteur, I believe that most of the considerations expressed by the European Parliament on these issues, in its previous report, since the Treaty of Amsterdam modified the uniform electoral system in accordance with the general principles of electoral law, appear in the spirit and the letter of the text before us today.
The Group of the European Peoples' Party is therefore going to vote in favour, and it is true that there will be time to accommodate other requests from the European Parliament in the future.
We took this initiative some years ago, the Council has acted on our text, and indeed incorporated most of the essential elements that we wished to see incorporated into the uniform electoral system, or at least the common principles for the system.
Our argument that proportional representation should be obligatory in every Member State is accepted.
I come from the last Member State to have introduced proportional representation for European elections and am glad that this will now be recognised as a principle to be applied across all Member States.
The report also recommends that we bring to an end, although this will be phased in, the dual mandate whereby Members sit both in the European Parliament and in their national parliament.
With that small reservation, I can support the text and my group will be voting in favour of the rest of it.
Madam President, as previous speakers have said, it has proved to be an extraordinarily controversial process to get this far, especially for the British who have only now agreed to bring in a fair voting system, without which, it must be said, I would unlikely to be speaking here this afternoon.
The British also accept that they have a responsibility to ensure that the citizens of Gibraltar can be represented in this place.
I trust that the participation of Gibraltar within the European political system will soften some of the nationalistic tensions we have seen in that part of the Union.
I look forward to a further review of the uniform electoral procedure, by which time I trust that the Convention will have established the argument for regional seats in the larger States as well as for some element of a transnational list.
Madam President, in the opinion of my group, although the rapporteur's resolution is indisputably satisfactory, the Council text is mediocre.
The word 'essentially' is interesting, firstly because it was not translated into all languages; some Council versions even omitted the adverb.
This concept means that in effect, by chopping up the electoral territory, we may well end up with lists of two or three MEPs in a constituency, meaning that the electoral threshold will become 20 or 30%.
That is why we are trying to combat this threshold effect in the recitals that have been adopted, and I would like to thank officially our rapporteur and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs while hoping that the Council will come round to this position.
My personal view is that the compromise achieved in Council is, as a whole, acceptable, representing as it does a move towards a more homogeneous European electoral system.
What is particularly heartening is that Gibraltarian citizens can at last take part in European elections.
I very much hope that the citizens of the candidate countries will be able to vote in the 2004 elections and that the accession negotiations will not be delayed.
Madam President, Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado, ladies and gentlemen, this report does not seem to me to be very appropriate as, although, strictly speaking, there is no uniform electoral procedure, the European elections have nonetheless been organised on very widely accepted common principles since 1999.
Why, therefore, produce yet another report on a matter that has been discussed numerous times, except to try to re-launch an integration process that seems even more doomed than ever.
Having said that, I would more specifically like to highlight two aspects that I consider unacceptable.
First, the unlikely idea of a single European constituency for the election of 10% of the seats in Parliament, which I am glad to say was rejected by the Council but which is nonetheless referred to by the rapporteur.
Not only does this proposal run entirely counter to the objective of territorialisation - the single European constituency would distance its Members from their voters, whereas territorialisation aims, on the contrary, to bring them closer - but it also ignores Article 189 of the Treaty on the European Communities.
The second point with which I thoroughly disagree concerns the reflections on the role of the European political parties, which the rapporteur invites to announce a candidate for the Commission Presidency in future election campaigns.
The participation of the European parties in voting is something that could possibly be considered, but their involvement in the workings of the Community institutions must be firmly opposed.
Madam President, as is frequently the case in Parliament, the more we talk about the citizens the more we are thinking only of our own interests.
Madam President, the report by Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado proposes that our Assembly endorse the draft decision of the Council on the procedure for European elections and, on this particular point, we agree with the rapporteur.
In effect, this draft, in its current wording, seems to be flexible enough to respect the sovereignty of each country.
On the contrary, we think that these lists would only increase the isolation of the European Parliament from voters in the Member States.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is all too true that the procedure for direct elections to the European Parliament has been an almost interminable business since the seventies.
Parliament may well have the right of initiative under the European Treaties, but it is the Council that must come to a decision - a unanimous one.
As long as four years ago, we discharged our obligations with the Anastassopulos report, but the Council of Ministers has taken a very, very long time to do something about its own.
This solution means that the citizens of Gibraltar will at last be able to participate in elections to the European Parliament.
This is certainly a success for democracy in Europe.
The European elections have in recent years consistently been typified by a low turn-out.
In my own country, the Netherlands, the turn-out in 1999 was only 30%.
In other countries, the situation was similarly disappointing.
In order to boost the numbers in 2004, the elections must in any case become a great deal more exciting and more political.
This should, firstly, be done by allowing Parliament to appoint the President of the European Commission on the basis of the results of the elections.
This is why in the report, all European political parties are urged to make their candidates known for this position well beforehand.
The day on which the elections are held is also extremely important in connection with identifying with the European project.
Only when we all vote on the same day will the people have the sense that they are voting for one and the same political body.
Finally, I mooted the idea in the Netherlands last week to have the national Commissioner of the European Commission directly elected by referendum.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the ten elected Members of the European Free Alliance, the sum total of the regionalist and nationalist Members within the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, have a problem with recital C.
Could I point out that in the Belgian system, Member State level for European elections is totally irrelevant?
In my opinion, recital C is a liberal interpretation of Article 2 of the Council's draft decision.
The European Free Alliance is also struggling with the reference to transnational lists in recital D.
Through these manoeuvres, aimed at developing a political and parliamentary division, the intention is to create a European political identity.
The Convention is working on the idea of a politically united Europe without internal borders.
Many renowned rapporteurs have already gone before him, including Edgard Faure, Schelto Patijn, Karel De Gucht and also Mr Anastassopoulos.
A number of points have also been missed out.
This is particularly unfortunate, because this was a very sound point and would also have given us the opportunity, for example, to have a new President of the European Commission directly elected via the political parties and via a European list.
The idea mooted by Mr van den Berg to solve this by holding a referendum is an interesting one in itself, but I should like to say straight away: you were in government for eight years with your party.
I also thank Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado, who has made an important contribution to our next step towards a uniform election system.
We urgently call on the Council to introduce Europe-wide lists when the electoral system is next revised.
Madam President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the fathers of Europe at Laeken - there were probably no mothers there - gave the Convention on the future of Europe something more than a year in which to achieve a big success in the process of making Europe more visible, by drafting the text of a new constitutional treaty.
A quite disproportionately small part of the Convention's work will be devoted to preparing solutions to the issues now raised in the Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado report - a uniform system for elections to Parliament, which will then truly merit the name of 'European', solutions under the heading of 'regionalisation' to the system's proximity - or lack of it - to the citizens, and to the problem of how to make it possible to use the elections to the European Parliament to reach a decision on how to give Europe a face, that is, by the direct election of the President of the Commission.
Vive la différence is still the watchword for the organising of elections to the European Parliament.
Do we put a brave face on a bad job, rejoice in small improvements, thank the rapporteur for his good work and await the miracle that the Convention will bring to pass in fifteen months' time, changing everything and making it better?
Madam President, I would like to thank our rapporteur for his open-mindedness in drawing up this report.
The assent we are going to give on the amendment of the Act concerning the election of representatives to the European Parliament is part of a strategy of small steps.
If we want to establish a European public space, we need to bring to life political parties that have a goal, that of electing the representatives of the peoples of Europe to the European Parliament.
With regard to equality, I believe the decision could have been bolder and could have proposed a rule of equality for European elections.
Madam President, the report before the House makes perfect sense if you believe that this Parliament ought to be the legislature of a European Polity.
I personally favour a majoritarian first-past-the-post voting system.
For a politically very important reason, I believe: if we want to launch any initiative or send any message to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the European Parliament, we must do so now.
I therefore believe it very positive that there should be an improved uniform electoral procedure for the election of Members of the European Parliament.
I would also stress issues which I believe to be essential, such as, for example, the proportional system which directly represents the opinion of the citizens and guarantees plurality; the fact also that parity is asked for - at the moment there are as many female voters as male ones, more even - and the political parties formed on the basis of the will of the citizens, and not only this Parliament, must also show that parity.
Finally - and why not? - we should insist that the person who is elected, when the time comes, by the European Parliament as President of the Commission, should also be put to the people as a candidate to the European Parliament.
Madam President, I will speak very briefly.
I am sorry to have arrived late for this debate, but certain presidency obligations in relation to ministerial enlargement conferences have detained me until very recently.
I do not wish to miss this opportunity to express the Spanish Presidency's feelings about this achievement in relation to the European Parliament's electoral procedure.
I believe that today's agreement is an extremely important one in the life of this Parliament and for the future of the construction of Europe.
Thank you, Commissioner De Palacio.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the results of the preparatory meeting for the Johannesburg Summit, which took place between 27 May and 7 June 2002 in Bali.
In Rio, the so-called Agenda 21 was defined, which contains the fundamental objectives to be achieved during this century.
The understanding is that these three challenges are interrelated.
The results of the Johannesburg Summit are expected to include the following elements: a political declaration which represents a renewed commitment by world leaders to achieve the objectives of the Millennium Declaration and the shortcomings in the application of Agenda 21, an action programme with fundamental action commitments, voluntary cooperation initiatives which involve all agents, governments, civil society and the private sector in a series of initiatives to implement the action programme.
During this period there have been two preparatory conferences at world level, held in New York: PREPCON 2 and PREPCON 3, and on 24 May the last preparatory conference began in Bali, PREPCON 4, which includes the ministerial meeting of 4 to 7 June.
Meanwhile, in Brussels the Community positions have been prepared by means of a process made up of the following stages: the conclusions of the Environment Council of 4 March which were endorsed by the Barcelona European Council, the conclusions approved by the Development Council on 30 May and, finally, the conclusions of the General Affairs Council of 17 June, based on the previous ones and on the results of PREPCON 4, which will be adopted by the Seville European Council as the European Union's global position for Johannesburg.
On the level of the fifteen Member States, the debates have focused on the following issues, which must be resolved at the General Affairs Council of 17 June, immediately prior to Seville: firstly the coherence of Community policies, without prejudice to the adaptation of Community policies to the internal and external objectives of sustainable development.
A more in-depth study is required before it can be accepted and included at the Johannesburg Summit as a Community initiative.
Financial issues, such as those relating to the possible link between funding and the future initiatives established during the Johannesburg Summit, will also be dealt with, and these financial issues are those which are essential so that the additional official development aid resources, agreed to during the Monterrey Conference, are implemented or allocated to the initiatives established in Johannesburg.
Secondly, I will comment on the perspectives in the run-up to the Seville European Council.
The Presidency has done much work in preparing for the Johannesburg Summit.
The European Union must make a very significant contribution to this summit and demonstrate a great capacity for leadership, because we are world standard bearers for sustainable development.
The United States wants to minimise political issues as much as possible and would even like to remove the political declaration and the action programme in order to concentrate on implementation.
Furthermore, the United States' focus in relation to implementation is innovative: it wants to create new 'transfunds' which can bring together public and private money, which is rejected by several European partners.
The Presidency believes that the European Union should play a role similar to the one it played in Monterrey: to seek consensus with our main partners.
As soon as possible we must coordinate our efforts with JUSCANZ, the group made up of the USA, Japan and Canada, and with the Group of the 77.
Monterrey was a success, because the European Union worked throughout for a consensus, and if practical results were achieved to benefit developing countries, then in Johannesburg we must try to do the same.
If we do not achieve this, the ghost of Durban and the problems during that summit will weigh heavily on Johannesburg.
Some seem more interested in confrontation than in achieving concrete results which benefit the developing countries.
At the PREPCON 4 in Bali, we have tried to reach consensus on a short action programme with a clear focus.
A political declaration must be very short, very clear and prevent confrontation, and must be aimed at implementation and practical issues.
In this respect, it is important that the European Union has a communication strategy with which to confront the Johannesburg Summit.
We must have a clear vision of what we want in Johannesburg and of how we want to communicate that vision to world public opinion, but above all European public opinion, which, as I said before, has led the way on all these issues.
Finally, the presidency believes that the global pact which we intend to create on the basis of the results of Monterrey, Doha and Johannesburg, must be founded on the principles of democracy, respect for human rights and good government.
The G 77 group pressed for the creation of a world solidarity or poverty fund based on voluntary contributions from public and private funds.
Whilst it said that it did not wish to reopen agreements reached in launching the trade round in Doha or at the Conference on Financing for Development in Monterey, the G 77 group was seeking signals from the developed countries which could lead to increased market access for developing in addition to least-developed countries and ways of constraining those that have not yet clearly committed increased resources under the Monterrey Consensus to do so.
Since the developed countries have always made it clear that market access questions would have to be discussed in the World Trade Organisation in the context of the Doha development agenda and that there would be no new public funds for development beyond what had been pledged in Monterrey, the positions taken by the G77 representatives, led by Venezuela, inevitably led to an unfortunate standoff between the developing and developed countries.
Whilst useful progress was made in cleaning up the text of the action plan, large parts - including some key EU objectives - have not been agreed.
All these issues will have to be sorted out either in informal meetings or actually at the Johannesburg Summit.
A successful outcome in Johannesburg now depends on finding ways of bridging the gap between the developed and developing countries over trade and finance issues.
The EU position has a lot of appeal for developing countries, not least because it seeks, inter alia, to promote common commitments on increasing trade-related assistance and capacity building beyond pre-Doha levels, to search for innovative ways to encourage trade in sustainable products and to encourage the emulation of the European "Everything but Arms" initiative.
The European Union therefore can, and must, play a constructive role in bringing the parties together.
However, unless a satisfactory solution is found, there is a risk that the Johannesburg meeting will be dominated by acrimony over the issues of trade and finance and the focus on sustainable development risks being lost.
Future meetings, such as the Seville European Council and the G8 meeting, as well as bilateral contacts, will provide important opportunities for review and discussion by developed countries on how to respond to G77 concerns without reopening the Doha and Monterrey agreements.
The European Parliament is an advocate of sustainable development.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr de Miguel, the outcome of the preparatory meeting held in Bali has been a disappointment.
We must build bridges in order to save this Conference, but, and let me state this clearly, in the run-up to Johannesburg many countries are adopting a blocking approach, others a more passive approach and I do not believe I am far off the mark in saying that, objectively, only the European Union is setting off for Johannesburg with the desire to give an ambitious worldwide commitment to sustainable development.
Against this backdrop, and because we cannot waste the kind of opportunity we have not had for ten years and which is unlikely to be repeated in the next ten, the European Union must play a leading role.
The role of the European Parliament delegations such as, for example, at the decisive conferences for the Kyoto Protocol, in The Hague, Bonn and in Marrakech, a role, as a matter of fact highlighted by the Commission and the Council, leads us to think that we need to give the European Parliament a more fitting role for this Johannesburg Summit.
Consequently, out of respect for the citizens that we represent here, I believe it is crucial that the European Parliament has the right not only to send a delegation of 25 Members of this House, but also and above all the right to have its representatives participate in the daily European Union coordinating meetings.
The European Parliament does not want to negotiate - we are familiar with the Treaties.
It is not the European Parliament's task to negotiate, but we do want Parliament, the Commission and the Council to maintain unity in Johannesburg and in order for this to help make the Conference a success, it is essential that Parliament has the right to participate in these European Union coordinating meetings.
We know that they are a part of sustainable development.
What, however, I am looking for, especially on the part of the Council, in the run-up to Johannesburg is commitment, conviction and an ability to see things in context.
Madam President, all too many people in the world are starving, and all too many are living in poverty.
The way forward is more growth and prosperity in the developing countries - growth and prosperity which must be combined with sustainability.
Secrecy creates both poverty and stagnation, and we must therefore secure an agreement that breaks down tariff barriers and that guarantees free trade, as well as developing countries' free access to the market, and we must begin with ourselves.
We must secure international agreements on environmental protection and the fight against deadly diseases.
Madam President, the meeting in Bali was a failure.
We have very little time left before Johannesburg.
I believe that the European Union, as Commissioner Wallström said, must be ambitious in its goals for Johannesburg.
The first, as explained by the President-in-Office of the Council, would be to propose that we change the European policies which prevent developing countries and the poorest countries from making progress towards sustainable development or meeting their basic needs.
I am thinking in particular of aid for agricultural exports.
We must therefore make a significant gesture in this area.
The second proposal would consist of promoting a legal framework imposing constraints on transnational companies to encourage them to fulfil their environmental, social and economic responsibilities.
And they really are to be found among the poorest in the world.
There are huge efforts which can be made both on the question of trade relations and on the question of funding, without overturning what was agreed in Doha and Monterrey.
We demand good governance on the part of developing world countries and we are incapable of good governance of the world per se, with institutions, rules, resources, funding, possibly even taxes, which we are quick to reject. (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, the World Conference on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg could provide a unique opportunity for creating sustainable development, economically, socially and in environmental terms, for future generations, but it requires the rich world to sacrifice something in the interests of such development.
The rich countries have still not fulfilled the pledge they made in Rio.
The rich countries have so far been very dismissive, however.
For Denmark, the world summit will be the first big international event of its EU Presidency and also a test of that presidency.
The European Union's credibility in Johannesburg will be dependent on what we achieve here, on our ecological requirements and, not least, on the way we vote here throughout the year.
What we have to do - and I believe the EU can adopt a leading role in this area - is to review our own regulations.
It should be noted in this context that women have a key role to play in all development, and that there must be forceful demands made in Johannesburg for us to help put women in a position to take an active part in the process of development and actively contribute to the improvement of living conditions.
All over the world, it is women who support development processes that lead to changes in civil society.
More than two billion people are deprived of modern forms of energy and more than one billion people have no clean drinking water.
Rio's political framework was sound, but its execution poor.
For my part, I am going to concentrate on the energy issues that are really vital.
Today there are two billion people in the world who do not have access to energy.
Perhaps you could tell us who is opposed to this and how we can make progress in this area.
EUR 300 billion have now been allocated world-wide to nuclear and fossil fuels.
If these subsidies were to be reduced, we would have substantial sums available to support investment in renewable energy and help the two billion people who do not have access to energy.
I wonder if the position adopted by the European Union at Gothenburg to phase out energy subsidies still applies now.
In conclusion, a word to the Spanish Presidency.
If you put as much effort into helping countries that need help to develop enough to support their population as you are into building a wall around Europe, if you channelled this energy into becoming involved once again in the Johannesburg process, then I think your Presidency would be seen in a better light.
Given this scenario, which we must counter, the issue we need to address today is what the position of the European Union and all the Member States will be; what position they will be adopting in the preparatory phase of the summit itself.
Incidentally, I must say that Johannesburg cannot be seen simply as an extension of Doha and that these measures cannot, of course, consider the environment simply to be a business, as the United States claim.
Mr President, Commissioner, regrettably, when we talk about sustainable development, we find it hard to be specific.
The rich countries are virtually at a standstill while the developing countries are floundering in their problems, their poverty, their lack of resources.
Lastly, I also regret the attitude of the United States with regard to international commitments to safeguarding our planet.
In the context of the fight against terrorism, the United States is asking for increased international cooperation.
We are all in favour of developing this special relationship, and of this cooperation being included in the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol too.
American industry has declared itself to be in favour of this agreement.
It knows that it would be a disadvantage in the long term to remain outside the system.
The second priority is the right to water.
The third priority item is biodiversity and, in particular, the minimum goal of stabilising the existing situation through an agreement ensuring that the world's genetic heritage is shared by all.
Action plans should focus on people because development can only be truly sustainable in its widest possible sense if it looks at people's needs but has respect for different languages and cultures as well as cultural values.
There has to be partnership with developing countries and structures that respect democracy, human rights and good governance - new structures for global governance such as the World Environment Agency.
Mr President, our hope is that the European Union, through the Council, the Commission and Parliament, will play a leading role at the Johannesburg World Summit, which is to assess the progress made in implementing Agenda 21, considering that sustainable development and combating poverty are indisputably two priority objectives.
As the leading donor of aid, the European Community must take this opportunity to play its rightful guiding role on the international stage - in the absence of the United States - contributing along with the other international institutions to the success of this event.
As she acknowledges, the European Union has a particular and important role to play: as a major donor of aid, as the biggest donor of humanitarian aid in the world and as the biggest trading block in the world.
President Museveni, after the Bali meeting, said that talk about sustainability is all very well but that market access is the most important issue.
Commissioner, you need alliances in Johannesburg.
Mr President, I am glad to hear that the Spanish Presidency assures us that the Council will play a leadership role at Johannesburg.
The point is that you cannot separate trade and sustainable development.
Mr President, the preliminary meeting in Bali does not bode well for the UN Summit on sustainable development in Johannesburg this summer.
Washington adopted the same attitude in Bali.
By the way, what gives the US the right to make demands from developing countries if the US itself flouts all international agreements?
I hope it will adopt the same consistent and decisive approach in Johannesburg.
Mr President, I would like to start with some good news from the Bali meeting: it was decided there to start a ten-year programme of work relating to sustainable patterns of production and consumption.
For this reason, natural resources must be brought under sustainable control and growth must be achieved without overexploitation of natural resources.
Mr President, one billion people do not have access to drinking water and three million die every year from diseases caused by poor water quality or lack of water.
These same ministers were incapable of making specific commitments in Bali.
If the Johannesburg Summit fails, the European Union will have to shoulder its responsibility.
Mr President, the results of the preparation of the Johannesburg Conference would not perhaps have been so poor - and the outlook for the Conference so pessimistic - if the parties had been more willing, and above all able, to see beyond their own partial short-term interests and to realise that we are at an extremely important turning point, not only in terms of achieving sustainable development - although this alone would deserve all our efforts - but also of achieving security and governability on a world scale.
In the ten years between Rio and Johannesburg, there has been a fundamental change towards a globalised society in which social and economic inequalities seem closely linked to environmental problems and governability in all countries.
The eradication of poverty is becoming a priority objective in the world because it is the only way we can guarantee security, governance and equality in a globalised world.
After almost thirty years of policies aimed at reconciling economic development, the environment and social well-being, I believe that we have a pretty good knowledge of the range of instruments and measures to be applied in order to achieved balanced growth in a globalised world: transparency and openness of the markets, management of knowledge and innovation, transfer of technologies, the efficiency of our processes and products, the acceptance and application of social and environmental responsibility in all sectors; these are some of the most important measures.
We need to approach Johannesburg by strengthening the coalition between government, civil society and the production sector, in order to jointly deal with the main challenges of global sustainability and equality.
I ask you to lead that argument in Johannesburg too.
Mr President, the EU has good reason to be satisfied with progress on sustainable development.
It is more important than ever for the EU to be able to strengthen its partnerships with third countries and other blocs.
The EU must acquire firm scientific support for its work, for example, in matters to do with trade, as our major competitor, the United States of America, is not intending to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.
It would be the task of the European Climate Change Agency to compile data on climatic change and its impact on the environment, the economy and society.
Climatic change is the most serious problem in our history and its most serious threat.
Council. (ES) Mr President, I think that this debate has been extraordinarily informative because many things have been said, but they are all things that both the Council and the Commission have fully accepted, because we totally share the widespread disappointment felt by everyone at the outcome of the Bali conference and the concern at the almost insurmountable difficulties facing preparations for the Johannesburg conference.
Nevertheless, I should not like to end this debate on a negative note, having mentioned all the injustices inherent in the distribution of poverty in the world and the enormous problems of world trade and environmental problems and not state that Europe has the capacity for leadership.
I believe the fact that the European Parliament shares this concern inspires the Commission and the Council, who are responsible for representing the position of Europe and its leadership in all these issues that are so close to us and, naturally, so close to our hearts, because they have a major impact on the conscience of European public opinion.
I should like to say that, despite the fact that the outcome of the Bali conference was not very positive, some very important goals and agreements have been achieved during these months of the Spanish Presidency, which have confirmed that the European Union is moving in the right direction.
This is the very reason we were not able to achieve anything positive in Bali but, nevertheless, our desire to conclude an agreement remains intact.
Furthermore, for his part, the President of the Council intends to take this issue to the highest level at the G8 Summit in Kananaskis, in Alberta, Canada, which will take place at the end of June.
The Spanish Presidency will keep up the pressure to the end and the Danish Presidency is also already prepared to take over on 1 July.
I can imagine our having to play that role very actively in Johannesburg.
I want to thank you again for this important debate.
The debate is closed.
This means that employers that fail in their obligation to create working conditions that pre-empt sexual harassment may also become liable for prosecution by the courts as a result.
From this you may have already concluded that fathers and men in general have now been included in the Community legislation on gender equality.
This is also absolutely vital as there is much debate going on in all our Member States about how men can be included in the promotion of equality.
An employer may also discriminate against a father returning to work from parental leave or insisting on his statutory right to work a shorter working day.
This directive now forbids all such discrimination.
In this way the European Union can also promote concrete improvements in gender equality in the future Member States.
Mr President, more than a year has passed since we gave this proposal to amend the 1976 directive its first reading, a proposal which was referred to the European Parliament in July 2000; this means that it has taken us practically two years to reach an agreement with the Council and the Commission on amending a directive that Parliament has been discussing since as early as 1996, when we received the first proposal to amend the directive.
We had rejected that proposal on the basis of my report, which was debated on 8 March 1999, and had asked the Commission to table a more robust text.
For once, it is neither the Commission nor the Council that are responsible for this deplorable delay.
The rapporteur lost us a lot of time, firstly by tabling her report late and secondly by overloading it with proposals that had no sound legal foundation, some of which related to other directives.
At conciliation we were able to discard these counterproductive amendments that had been adopted at first and second reading against my group's wishes.
If people had listened to us then, women would already have been benefiting from the new directive for at least a year now, and it does represent a genuine improvement on the text that has been in force since 1976, a text which nevertheless has had the great merit of making progress in particular on equal treatment for men and women in the workplace.
I am all the more pleased with the outcome of the conciliation because finally - as I have said - my group's responsible and reasonable position has prevailed, thanks also to the Council and the Commission, who have done a great deal to talk round some over-excited members of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, who had not understood that the best is often the enemy of the good.
Because, three years on from the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, we can, at last, say that things are starting to change.
The Treaty of Amsterdam was a leap forwards in terms of recognition of the principle of equal opportunities and we now, at last, have a directive which provides specific, accurate definitions of direct and indirect discrimination, a directive which, in addition to providing an important definition of harassment and sexual harassment, recognises without a shadow of doubt that sexual harassment is to be considered direct discrimination and is therefore a punishable offence, a directive which recognises the importance of maternity and paternity leave and adoption and therefore the need and the right of mothers and fathers returning from such leave to be provided with equal or equivalent work, a directive which recognises the need for and compels each Member State to lay down equal and proportionate sanctions, a directive which, moreover, recognises independent bodies and makes companies responsible for producing equal opportunities plans, thus making positive actions under Article 141 possible.
I see this result as significant, Mr President, particularly because the matter is being discussed by the Convention and, on the basis of this result, we will be able to call for a further step forward to be taken in the Convention too.
It is therefore not only out of politeness that I say this but in genuine recognition of the fact that there is someone who has in actual fact been able to make a difference in this area and has demonstrated in practice that an individual MEP too can set a good agenda.
I also believe, however, that we have to say that we shall be keeping an eye on this issue in our own countries, because it is something that the Member States can easily avoid tackling.
I have unfortunately experienced a little of this in my own country, but I will not labour that subject any more.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Heidi Hautala for the time that she has devoted to this directive and for her work, which shows that she has been equal to this task and has merited the trust placed in her by the members of her committee.
I should like to say that this directive seems to me to mark progress on two extremely important fronts.
The first is that its scope has finally been extended.
I am very happy that all of this now comes under this directive.
We tend to deal with the issue of violence against women from the point of view of moral standards.
I myself had recourse to this new standpoint last week in France, where although our law dates from 1992 it does not really include a definition.
This new definition will therefore be very useful in all of our Member States.
The public consultation launched by the Green Paper received a very wide response from business, consumers and national governments.
The response gives the Commission clear support for developing a proposal for a framework directive.
In particular, a very large majority of the Member States supported this option.
For the sake of transparency and in order to structure the debate with the Member States, an outline of a possible framework directive on fair commercial practices is attached to the communication.
This is not intended to be a draft proposal; rather it is the first in a series of working documents designed to clear the ground and provide some much needed structure and form to what has been up to now a somewhat confused debate.
The framework directive will contain a general clause prohibiting unfair commercial practices detrimental to consumers.
The general clause will be supplemented by specific rules covering the various categories of unfair commercial practices both before and after sale.
The follow-up communication also provides for the setting up of an expert group.
The main task of this group would be to identify the common ground between national systems and the barriers to the internal market for business and consumers.
I also hope that the group will be able to find simplified solutions to consumer protection problems, although not at the cost of effective protection.
I hope, therefore, that the follow-up communication will provide a sound basis for moving towards a proposal for a framework directive that can command widespread support and confidence.
I hope that the proposed method of consultation will enable the Commission to fully understand the different nuances of the national rules on fair trading and build a consensus on a workable framework directive.
The consultation showed clear support for the ideas in the Green Paper on enforcement cooperation.
I believe that we now have a clear political mandate to proceed on the basis of a legislative proposal in this area.
In this context, I would like to stress my commitment to producing a proposal on enforcement cooperation in the near future, hopefully before the end of this year.
The follow-up communication is itself on a further stage in the consultation process.
I therefore look forward to the European Parliament's opinion on both the Green Paper and the follow-up communication.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have a question on the prohibited substances.
I understood I should make a statement in relation to the consumer protection issue, answer questions on that and then move on to this issue.
Nitrofen is a herbicide and has been a banned substance in the European Union since 1988.
The Commission was first made aware of the contamination on 24 May.
In addition, the contamination was discovered in industry tests in January but was not reported to the responsible authorities until May.
This delay in notification has resulted in the circulation and consumption of contaminated material before the German authorities were in a position to react.
The authorities are also in the process of tracing smaller quantities of organic cereals supplied directly from the warehouse to an estimated 20 other producers.
There is also evidence of storage of conventional non-organic cereals in this warehouse between 1995 and August 2001, although not necessarily in the contaminated section.
The authorities are still in the process of verifying this information.
Finally, a quantity of organic lupines was also exported to Denmark.
As the Commissioner stated, the problems surrounding the contamination of turkey meat in Germany are very reminiscent of those surrounding the dioxin contamination of chickens in Belgium in 1999.
Germany notified too late, far too late, despite the fact that it already knew, which was not the case in Belgium.
The third question related to whether Belgium and Germany have been treated unequally.
Discrimination means treating two situations which are the same in a different manner, or treating two different situations in the same way.
Unfortunately the scale of the dioxin problem in Belgium made tracing much more difficult.
In this instance the legislation did work.
There was a significant delay in reporting the problems in Belgium, resulting in the risk of dissemination of the dioxin throughout Belgium and other Member States, in circumstances where the level of contamination, particularly of pork and poultry, was very significant - much more widespread than in the present instance.
The handling of the nitrofen contamination has met with general satisfaction in the Member States.
Third countries were also threatening measures against all EU exports, in the absence of proof that the problem was confined to Belgium.
You will appreciate that this was not a comfortable decision for a new Commissioner for Health and Consumer Protection with responsibility for food safety on his very first day in office.
In conclusion could I also invite him to confirm to the House tonight what he said to the Legal Affairs Committee the other week, namely that the sales promotion regulation continues to have his full support and is entirely compatible with the suggested proposals.
The German Agriculture Minister has known since 21 May.
And what does Article 53 of this regulation state?
You have the information that there is only one source, while the contamination has been in progress since September, and while we all know that this warehouse in Vorpommern has been in use since October.
Mr President, Commissioner, in one minute nobody should confuse attitude with platitude.
Commissioner Byrne stated that the European Parliament had not yet expressed an opinion on the Green Paper on consumer protection, but that he did not see this as a particular problem and that, moreover, the Commission had enough of a political mandate - if I understood correctly - to determine the broad outlines of future consumer policy.
For my part, before asking my question, which will be quite straightforward, I should like to say that at this stage the European Parliament has not given any political mandate to the Commission to determine broad outlines of any kind.
My question is therefore as follows: to what extent does the Commission intend to take account of the European Parliament's opinion; is it still worth its even issuing an opinion when clearly the broad outlines have been defined and the major decisions made, whether it be on the choice of a framework directive as the preferred legal instrument or on legal principles, fair commercial practices, mutual recognition, or even to deregulate existing provisions?
In answer to the first question by Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, the situation here is that there are residue monitoring plans in place at both EU and Member State level.
The same issue arises with candidate countries.
The financial sector will be excluded and the whole area of food safety legislation will not be covered because it has its own separate legal regime.
Parliament will be involved; not only will Parliament's opinion on the original paper be taken into account, but also we await the opinion on this follow-up paper.
I confirm that I will and I also confirm what I said in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market some weeks ago, that I was involved in the work on the sales promotion directive.
They are treated in an equivalent manner to Member States.
I addressed this issue before when I was here and I said on that occasion that I am sensitive to this point, both because of where I come from and because of my professional background.
The next item is Question Time (B5-0252/2002).
However, as the Court of Auditors' special report No 20/2000, Paragraph 91, points out, there is no true common market in the sugar sector, and competition between the various sugar-refining enterprises does not exist.
However, the European Parliament and the Council rejected the Commission's proposals by a large majority.
The results of this study should be ready early in 2003.
Without claiming to be exhaustive, I should like to remind you that as early as the beginning of the 1970s the Commission adopted a decision penalising no less than sixteen companies for being in breach of Article 81 of the Treaty.
In 1988 the Commission penalised British Sugar for abuse of a dominant position; in 1997 the Commission also penalised Irish Sugar for abuse of a dominant position.
In 1998, the Commission penalised a price cartel on the British market in industrial sugar which had lasted for nearly four years.
Finally, I should also like to recall that the Commission pays particular attention to these problems when monitoring concentrations.
The Commission finds it regrettable that the European Parliament and the Council should - as I have just mentioned - have rejected the proposals it tabled more than a year ago by a large majority, proposals which specifically sought to introduce more competition in this market.
It is therefore far from satisfactory that citizens should encounter difficulties in gaining access to programmes broadcast from other Member States via satellite.
Certain rules concerning copyright and rights related to copyright, applicable in particular to cross-border satellite broadcasting, are already laid down in Directive 93/83 in order to prevent certain difficulties.
Nonetheless, while preparing the reports on the application of that directive, the Commission has been informed of existing problems and has highlighted them in a document which should be submitted to Parliament before summer.
In that context, the Commission would inform the Member who has tabled this question that it is currently reviewing the various aspects of this issue.
I agree with Mr Perry that the situation at present is highly unsatisfactory.
The Commission lacks any legal basis for any infringement proceedings that Members of Parliament might want to undertake.
I do not want to contradict the wishes of Mr Purvis or any Member of Parliament for a more satisfactory legal basis.
We had a report on digital television where this same issue was raised.
It is ironic that we have a directive called television without frontiers while the copyright and the rules on collection societies are preventing us from doing anything.
I would ask the Commissioner about this review and the study that he is going to undertake: are you also going to look at the differences in operation between cable and satellite that also exist in the directive and are also unsatisfactory?
Mrs Thors is quite right that whilst the directive is called télévision sans frontières - television without frontiers - it does not provide this.
In its opinion of 10 April 2002 the committee confirmed the risks posed by growth-promoting hormones to consumers that it had identified in its earlier opinions.
In particular the committee concluded in its 1999 opinion that for 17ß-oestradiol there was a substantial body of evidence that it has to be considered as a complete carcinogen and that it exerts both tumour-initiating and tumour-promoting effects.
It was also concluded in 1999 that the adverse effects included developmental, neurobiological, genotoxic and carcinogenic effects.
The Commission considers that its approach to consumer protection in this area is fully justified by scientific advice.
The Commission shares the honourable Member's views concerning the importance of transparency and credibility, which is why the committee's opinions are immediately published on the website of the Commission's Directorate-General for Health and Consumer Protection, together with other relevant information on this issue.
I was in this Parliament when the ban was introduced originally and I voted for a minority report that was proposed by Professor Tom Raftery, an expert on all these matters.
They have furnished their opinions on those occasions, most recently within the last couple of months when they took into account the earlier opinions but also all the relevant up-to-date scientific opinion on this particular issue.
I have to say that when I am engaged in the exercise of risk management, I have to follow the advice of the risk assessors, I have to follow the advice of scientific evidence and scientific opinion.
If I fail to do that, or if any of us fails to do that, in my view we are completely lost.
This is an argument in our dispute in the World Trade Organisation.
Question No 4 by Francisca Sauquillo Pérez del Arco (H-0403/02): Subject: Court case in Equatorial Guinea against leaders of the democratic opposition On 23 May a court case opens in Equatorial Guinea, without the minimum legal guarantees befitting a constitutional state, against various leaders of the democratic opposition, including Plácido Micó, the leader of Convergencia para la Democracia Social (Social Democrat Alliance); one of the lawyers representing the accused is under house arrest.
As regards cooperation, following a period of suspension from 1992 to 1997 the Commission signed the national indicative programme for the eighth EDF in July 2000.
The only project approved to date is aimed at supporting democracy, human rights and good governance.
The eighth EDF programme specifically provides that the release of other funds devoted to water and sanitation will be conditional upon a positive evaluation of the human rights situation in the country.
The Commission can therefore take measures without resorting to Article 9 of the Cotonou Agreement.
Mr President, Commissioner, when Mr Obiang, the President of Equatorial Guinea, visited Brussels two years ago and met President Prodi, he gave him commitments to democratisation and to respect human rights, commitments which have been blatantly flouted, something made crystal clear by the trial - if it can be called a trial - that has just taken place.
Furthermore, it is also true that the European Union, only a few months ago, voted in the United Nations Human Rights Commission for a Resolution stating that the regime in Equatorial Guinea was taking steps towards democracy and towards respecting human rights.
Question No 5 by Jorge Salvador Hernández Mollar (H-0404/02): Subject: Illegal immigration to the EU from Morocco The Association Agreement with Morocco includes among its areas for priority action the need for dialogue to deal with illegal immigration and the conditions of return and the need to reduce migratory pressure.
On 18 September 2000, the General Affairs Council mandated the Commission to negotiate a general EU-Morocco agreement on the return of immigrants.
The Commission has suggested formal negotiations being launched before the end of next month.
Finally, on question 5, whenever the Commission is authorised or mandated by the Council to negotiate a Community re-admission agreement with a third country it conducts negotiations in accordance with the relevant directives and in full compliance with the procedures set down in Article 300 of the Treaty.
The pressures on the system in Spain and other countries are self-evident.
There is, however, a dilemma in seeking to use a financial framework for the purposes of moving the Moroccan authorities more in the direction that the honourable Member would want.
I am sure he is conscious of that dilemma and aware that any risk or threat to financial support could weaken the system even further, and that would simply exacerbate the problem we are dealing with.
I can reassure him that the Commission is very actively engaged in trying to ensure that the best standards are set and maintained and will use all its endeavours to that end.
Mr President, with the association agreement that is currently being negotiated with Morocco, this is now the time when this issue is beginning to gather strength and when the agricultural concessions that will be granted are to be discussed.
European farmers are extremely concerned at the negotiating proposal that is being planned by the European Commission or which, at least, has been announced in the press.
I should like to ask the Commissioner whether what has been written in the press is true or whether the Commission's idea is that this burden of proof should be divided equally among all European countries and that it should not always be the farming sector that foots the bill for the association agreement being negotiated with Morocco.
On the contrary, the attitude towards financing the MEDA programme has much more to do with a desire to ensure efficient, value-for-money spending with proper, generous effects for the people who should be the recipients of such development support, rather than simply having figures on a budget which can look impressive but have less impressive consequences.
However, on 14 December, I was informed by the minister that Belgium would not be ready to discuss financial questions until February because he was expecting the outcome of relevant audits.
Since then, the positions of the Belgian Government and the Commission have become closer, but we have not yet reached final agreement on the price that the Commission would be willing to pay or on legal guarantees which are required by the Commission.
Negotiations are therefore continuing.
The Belgian authorities have confirmed that the current estimated costs of the basic renovated building are EUR 605 million and the Government has confirmed its intention to make the building fit for reoccupation by 31 December 2003.
The history of this project means, however, that the Commission considers that certainty about the realistic hand-over date can only be established when a specific date has been fixed in a contract that will also make provision for financial penalties for late delivery.
As I have said to Parliament and to the Belgian Government, I believe that many of the difficulties encountered in this project are due to serious management problems that originated with the management structure of Berlaymont 2000.
The EUR 605 million is what the negotiations are all about, so I am not yet in a position to be able to say to him whether that overall price is satisfactory to us, whether it meets the needs we have or what our eventual position following the conclusion of negotiations will be about that price.
As far as the final decision in the College is concerned, that too is dependent on the satisfactory outcome of negotiations; and I have specified the fundamental considerations there.
It is our preference to do so for a large number of reasons, not least the fact that possession of the building in something like 27 years would give us a very valuable piece of real estate in an extremely intensively developed part of Brussels.
On the second point, I should like to take this opportunity of saying what I told the Bureau of Parliament earlier today, and I have said it to many parliamentarians: the package of proposed reforms of the Staff Regulations are now before Parliament and the Council.
Everyone's interests would be served - in particular Parliament's interests - if it were possible for Parliament to arrive at its opinion this year, simply because that would then facilitate consideration of any revisions that Parliament proposed or any opinions that it presented.
Consideration of those features could then take place properly in the early months of 2003.
Questions to Mr Liikanen Mr President, it is a real procedural motion this time.
By this, I mean that some MEPs, myself included at times, take advantage of this possibility, but this is a real procedural motion.
This is question No 18 about language use in the European institutions.
I take very good note of your comments, but as you know, and as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, it is the President, together with his cabinet, who sets the order and the allocation of questions to the Commission, and the Commission decides which question each Commissioner shall answer.
Your question has been scheduled for the end of the day, in the third part, which is certain to be answered in writing.
As the author is not present, Questions No 7 lapses.
This Communication and the Parliament resolution on European tourism, and the Council Resolution on the future of European tourism, provide the basis for concrete measures to be undertaken.
But first of all, I would like to thank the European Parliament for its high involvement in promoting tourism as is shown by this question from the honourable Member.
The resolution supports our proposals and encourages us to implement and follow them up carefully.
The main objective is to incorporate tourism in Community policies and measures favouring an integrated approach.
We will organise this forum for the first time in December this year in Brussels.
We want to promote stakeholder access to Community instruments, involving also local authorities and the private sector.
More specifically, we will look at Tourism Satellite Accounts to measure the economic impact of tourism, and on a European Agenda 21 for tourism to promote the sustainable development of tourism.
Less densely-populated, rural or peripheral regions can therefore make good use of the possibility offered in this context to create jobs and to generate economic growth.
In the context of the diversification of activities in rural areas, there are also funds allocated in the framework of Rural Development Programmes by the European Agriculture Guarantee and Guidance Funds.
If this were to be done as a project between the Member States, of course according to their choice, these kinds of peripheral, lesser-known but exciting areas would be better marketed.
Secondly, I agree with you that in those areas where there is a rural population it is easier to guarantee sustainable development.
I am sure that we can come back to this issue later.
The interests of European SMEs have indeed been communicated for inclusion in that preparatory work.
The problem is that real banking activities are run in Member States by private financial institutions.
The provisions of Article 18 of European Parliament and Council Directive 2002/21/EC on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (Framework Directive) includes a legal requirement for the Member States to promote transparency when it comes to making APIs available for application programs.
The provisions do not include a requirement for any particular API technology or a single API.
According to the directive, the Member States must also carry out a review of operational compatibility and user options before July 2004.
The Information Society Directorate-General has initiated a dialogue with industry on operational compatibility for interactive TV services.
The political debate must be preceded by careful investigations of issues such as operational compatibility.
If, however, we look at developments in Europe and at the almost daily contributions to Finnish newspapers too, there is a prevailing uncertainty - even in Finland, as one of the countries to have signed a memorandum of understanding - as to whether the same standard will be used by cable, satellite and terrestrial operators.
Where the Seville Summit is concerned, digital TV will be included in the Europe 2005 action plan.
Question No 10 by Gary Titley (H-0450/02): Subject: Regulatory impact assessments of SMEs The European Commission's Communication on the creation of an interinstitutional network to develop instruments of impact assessment is most welcome.
In particular, it establishes that all the Commission's proposals presented in the Annual Policy Strategy and later in the Work Programme will undergo a proportionate integrated impact assessment and that all departments will follow uniform minimum standards on consultation.
A strong and solid knowledge base for policy making is crucial if the European institutions are to improve the regulatory environment.
The challenge is to ensure a high level of protection for European citizens in sensitive areas such as the environment, health and consumer protection, while avoiding over-regulation, which damages growth and employment prospects.
However, to meet our common objective of simplifying the Union's legislative environment, in particular for European small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), there is a need to increase interinstitutional cooperation, including cooperation on impact assessments by Parliament and the Council.
In addition, during his presentation of the Better Regulation package to the Conference of Presidents at Parliament on 5 June, President Prodi renewed the appeal for an interinstitutional agreement on some of the proposed actions.
In formally adopting new tools for impact analysis and consultation, the Commission also wants to promote a new culture of transparency, participation and challenge.
Parliament has a crucial role to play in this process of cultural change.
Secondly, given that the Commission proposes to do this before making proposals which then go before the Council and Parliament, how does it envisage following the amendments being made by the Council and Parliament to ensure that there is an impact assessment of those amendments?
We had a two-year project to consolidate methodology on business impact assessments, we have organised a public hearing and consultation on that and I am happy to give all this information to the honourable Member.
As to the role of the other institutions, in the spirit of open and transparent legislation it will be important that the Parliament and the Council also include the same logic.
If the Parliament, the Council and the Commission agree on the principles, the Commission's impact assessment already must have analysed different parameters and that information will be available and helpful to assess the amendments.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the following assessment is of great and special importance for us, as bankruptcies have gone up over the past year by an average of 19% in the European Union, and in Germany by 32%.
We will analyse that in the broader sense but without neglecting Mr Rübig's point of view.
I am sure that you will also discuss it in your context.
Thank you very much, Mr Liikanen.
Mr President, the White Paper on European transport policy lays down that, unless new and wide-ranging initiatives are adopted, by 2010 traffic from heavy goods vehicles will increase by between 40% and 50% in comparison to its 1998 levels.
In this context, the Commission has proposed adding a set of links to the applicant countries.
In order to improve East-West corridors, it has also proposed two new priority projects, which are: the combined transport project, the high-speed Stuttgart-Vienna rail link and the project to improve the Danube between Vilshoffen and Straubin.
The Commission intends to carry out a broader review of all the trans-European networks in 2004, bearing in mind the new shape of the European Union, in other words, the shape arising from enlargement.
With regard to the transport of goods by rail we have already presented, not only the first rail package that was adopted a year and a half ago, but also the second rail package that is intended, precisely, to boost the rail transport of goods, producing a railway fit for the twenty-first century, which is dynamic, competitive with roads, geared towards the customer and which, consequently, provides a high-quality service.
I hope that the work in this Parliament and in the Council of Ministers will enable us soon to give the green light to these extremely important measures.
Lastly, in the field of logistics, thanks to the new Marco Polo project, designed to promote interoperability and to subsidise the development of alternatives to road transport, companies in the candidate countries will be able to obtain economic aid if they make their request for it in conjunction with a European Union company.
Clearly, the increase in traffic will indeed be highly concentrated in border areas and for this very reason, we are promoting, through various projects, a return to rail goods transport in the fifteen current Member States of the European Union and also the maintenance of railways as a mode of transport in the candidate countries.
We have spoken with Deutsche Bahn, of course, and, next year, the first railway package will enter into force, which will mean, first of all, that the European Union will have, for the first time, a European railway network, which does not currently exist, that we will be able to move beyond national railway networks and that we will integrate these national networks into a European network.
The basis for this is the latest extensions to have been made: for example, the Iberian Peninsula - in its road link with France through the Pyrenees, or the integration of the Scandinavian countries, in their road links with the rest of the continent, or Austria.
The Greek Government was notified of the decision and sent its comments on more than one occasion.
The Commission's decision was also published in the Official Journal, so that interested third parties could send their comments to the Commission within the space of one month.
This deadline ended on 23 May 2002, the date on which the Commission received comments from the parties concerned.
The Commission will take a final decision once it has studied in great detail the comments sent by the Greek authorities and by interested third parties who have made a formal representation on the matter.
The Commission cannot comment on fundamental issues before issuing its final statement on the allegations made in its decision of 6 March 2002.
I am fully aware that Olympic Airways is an extremely important company for Greece's economic activity and that it also has a marked affect on the economic activity of the European Union as a whole.
Mr President, we are all extremely satisfied to have reached the end of the procedure to reform the 1976 directive on equal treatment for men and women, a directive which has played an important part in the life of working women in Europe.
The new text, which we trust the European Parliament will adopt, reflects the outcome of systematic efforts by and successful cooperation between the three institutions of the European Union.
It also reflects changes in economic and social conditions in the Member States of the European Union and efforts to update our social model.
However, it also reflects the roles which women have to play today if we are to achieve our development targets and the obligations and responsibilities of the state and society towards working women.
This directive must give laws and policies on equal treatment a chance to flourish and be applied.
It also constitutes a breakthrough of massive dimensions that women may not suffer any disadvantage in employment in connection with pregnancy or motherhood, and that they are accorded the right to their former job or an equivalent post after maternity leave.
That only applies, however, if this right is established in the Member States' legislation.
The directive entails practical action that can contribute to realising this ambition.
The directive also deals with the rights of adoptive parents in those Member States in which adoption leave is recognised.
The right to return to a former job or to an equivalent post at the end of maternity leave has also been incorporated.
Mr President, we have a definitive text, approved at the conciliation meeting of 17 April, which rounded off a long period of work.
We in the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities have sought to reach agreement on the most important points of this directive.
It has not been easy; we have all made concessions, but we have managed to produce a text that satisfies the majority and which the Council agreed on following many meetings, both formal and informal.
The directive addresses issues as important as the definition at Community level of sexual harassment; it bans discrimination against women on the grounds of pregnancy and maternity in the workplace, and also includes the issues of adoption and paternity, guaranteeing the employee's job or an equivalent job; positive measures have been included for sectors in which one gender is under-represented; preventive measures have been drawn up to prevent discrimination in the workplace on the grounds of gender - especially harassment and sexual harassment - ensuring that real sanctions will be imposed in the event of non-compliance with the directive; equal treatment in the workplace is to be planned and systematic, and reports are to be drawn up every four years to help us determine the real situation women have to cope with.
The excellent work done by the Spanish Presidency deserves mention as well as its efforts to ensure that the Council and the Commission were able to reach agreement.
The political agreement of 17 April 2002 considerably strengthens the text of the common position which was adopted in June 2001.
We can all be very proud of what we have achieved, because we have taken a significant step forward towards our shared objective of equality between men and women.
The dossier was a complex one and provoked various amendments.
I believe that the final approved text is a compromise in the noble sense of the word, because we are giving the men and women of Europe a tangible result, a very robust directive.
We have made considerable progress in the fight against discrimination on the grounds of sex and we have ensured that a fundamental principle of the Treaty will be implemented effectively in the Member States for the foreseeable future.
A striking feature of the new directive is its clarity, which guarantees legal certainty and ensures consistency with similar legislation seeking to combat discrimination.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
In the final analysis, this is about the specific programmes for research, technological development and integration and reinforcement of the European Research Area.
We naturally also want more support for preventive measures.
In my view, it is of enormous importance in Europe's information society to establish the link between mobile communication on the one hand and new technologies in the field of digital television, and the potential in the field of broad-band communication on the other.
I should also like to draw your attention to the INTAS project.
Finally, I should like to note that our Commissioner Busquin displayed a great deal of forward thinking when he established the Sixth Framework Programme in this manner and guided it in the direction of a European Research Area.
He particularly played a pioneering role in Barcelona when he persuaded the Member States to make joint efforts in order to get industry, the national governments and the European Union ultimately to commit to 3% of GNP for research.
Mr President, a basic political problem has overshadowed all our debates over recent months: how to resolve the structural weaknesses in all areas of research in Europe.
As far as the specific programme for structuring the European Research Area is concerned, the Commission proposal did in fact contain all the ingredients we needed to identify sensitive points and I am grateful for the cooperation we enjoyed in committee and, vitally, from the Committee on Industry.
As luck would have it, the Barcelona Council approved the Commission proposal on increasing overall expenditure on research during the course of our work.
Attracting new researchers and overcoming obstacles is something which concerns not just the countries of Europe but candidate and third countries as well.
Europe has much to gain from researchers from third countries.
Not only do we need more systematic public dialogue, but this public dialogue needs to be structured so that it has a real impact on our society, provides food for thought and educates.
Mr President, the specific programme for research and training on nuclear energy provides EUR 940 million for activities in three priority areas - controlled thermonuclear fusion, management of radioactive waste and radiation protection - as well as other activities in the field of nuclear technology and safety.
Subject to a positive outcome of the international negotiations, a specific decision is expected in the period 2003-2004, so that construction of ITER could effectively start during the period 2005-2006.
Given the fact that the final decision on ITER has not been taken yet, the flexibility in partitioning funds between ITER and other fusion activities is an important element of the proposal.
The Joint European Taurus (JET) in Culham, England, has been a highly successful machine and its facilities will continue to be exploited, but will have to be phased out at an appropriate time to enable the corresponding resources to be redirected to ITER.
The specific programme provides for EUR 90 million to be used for research on geological disposal and the development of concepts to produce less waste.
Radiation protection takes up to EUR 50 million.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy welcomes the Commission's proposal and expresses its support for fusion research in general and ITER in particular.
A number of amendments proposed by our committee refer to nuclear waste and nuclear safety.
At this point, I should like to point out that there is a mistake in the French translation of Amendment No 4, where the original English text "both safe and acceptable" has been transmuted into "both healthy and acceptable".
Mr President, Commissioner Busquin, ladies and gentlemen, my report deals with the direct actions for the European Atomic Energy Community that are implemented and realised in the Joint Research Centre and in its installations at Ispra, Petten, Geel, Mol and Karlsruhe.
Both advocates of atomic energy and its critics will surely agree that it is very important that an adequate number of young and superbly-qualified workers in the field of nuclear research in Europe should make an active contribution, by their research over the coming decades, to ensuring nuclear safety in the operational nuclear power stations and also, if need be, controlling the fuel cycle where this is a source of risk.
That is why it is important to maintain the Joint Research Centre's high standards and build on its research capacity by training young scientists on courses and scientific practical placements which can, inter alia, be carried on in networks of international, national and regional facilities at the various levels.
Secondly, adherence to the principle that women researchers should have equal opportunities.
Europe's citizens can demand that the safety of atomic power stations meets the highest standards even in an enlarged European Union.
It is, then, our desire that a Commission proposal on this topic be submitted as early as this summer.
Another possibility would of course be for it to be decommissioned before Lithuania joins the European Union.
Taken as a whole, the European Union and the Joint Research Centre have a great deal of research capacity to hand in the field of nuclear safety.
Mr President, I am going to be presenting the non-nuclear section of the report on the Joint Research Centre (JRC), which represents two thirds of its budget.
In the Sixth Framework Programme, the Joint Research Centre will be refocusing its activities so as to strengthen its organisational role and participate usefully in the European Research Area.
The total budget allocated to the JRC's activities stands at EUR 760 million.
Its decision to adopt this new strategy and restructure its services was inspired by a report published last year by a high-level working party chaired by Étienne Davignon.
These changes are intended to make the Joint Research Centre better adapted to the needs of political decision-makers and privileged users: the Council, Commission Directorates-General and Parliament.
The JRC will also be active in giving impetus to the European Research Area and the Sixth Framework Programme.
The JRC will be a high-profile player throughout the implementation of the Sixth Framework Programme, in terms of participating in both networks of excellence and integrated projects.
It will be able to make an active contribution to developing the new European citizenship by providing a common knowledge base of scientific and technological references and by facilitating dialogue between scientists and decision-makers.
This also applies to food safety, where the JRC will help to establish a reference and standardisation system, and to the protection of individual privacy in information and communication technologies.
It is improving networking and cooperation with public and private institutions in the Member States.
It is also finalising a human resources and mobility plan, which involves in particular training young scientists and arranging exchanges with national research institutions.
The JRC has an important part to play in the process of opening the programme up to the accession countries, to the countries of the Mediterranean region and to those involved in international cooperation under the MEDA and TACIS programmes.
It must not confine itself to research on photovoltaic energy, but must also promote demonstration projects in other areas, such as wind energy.
In conclusion, the Joint Research Centre's main objectives will therefore be to remain close to its users - the European Parliament and the Commission - to develop its role as a recognised centre of excellence on issues of safety, health and the environment, and to develop its activities as a promoter of research networks.
It is on the basis of principle that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development regrets that there is no specifically agricultural core area in the Sixth Framework Programme, but that projects are divided up between the chapters on food safety, protection of the environment and development.
It would be appropriate for it to have a research package to itself as, in terms of extent and practical implementation, agriculture is, along with atomic energy and pharmaceuticals, one of the major areas in which the results of research are put to use.
When there are problems in the food sector, we often find that they have to do with these new technologies.
We are only against the risks inherent in the application of something that research has produced.
Thank you, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf.
The only amendments we will oppose are No 6, - which excludes European funding for research aimed at military purposes.
We certainly have nothing against the Marie Curie fellowships.
Our group has tabled a clarifying Amendment No 25 which specifies that participation will be permitted by those who hold doctoral degrees where those degrees were obtained in three, rather than four, years.
We have seen a lamentable breakdown in this relationship, perhaps as a result of faulty assertions by scientists and politicians in previous crises.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate the five rapporteurs and the Commission, who have steadfastly showed their willingness to listen to the European Parliament, both in the Caudron report and since.
The recent excellent STOA report on nanotechnologies makes it clear that we are still at the stage of nanoscience.
I support our amendment on space science.
Indeed I would like more attention to the big science projects in the European research area outside the framework programme.
Of course I support Parliament's new emphasis on health and safety at work.
So congratulations to everyone for their good work and cooperation and good luck to all our scientists.
Research results must be translated into new products.
With regard to the Joint Research Centre, I should like to comment on its tasks in relation to nuclear safety, currently a very controversial topic in the Union.
Eight nuclear power plants have now been closed.
Mr President, I should like to thank all the rapporteurs for their hard work.
The Euratom Atomic Energy Community was founded in 1957 and is now well past its sell-by date.
Its separation from other EU norms is also highlighted by Euratom having its own framework for its research programme.
Most experts anticipate that if fusion is ever to achieve commercialisation it will not be for at least another 50 years.
Despite around half a century of commercial operation of nuclear reactors, the solution to the long-term management of nuclear waste remains unsolved.
The framework programme for additional funds to research geological disposal of radioactive waste means that EU-funded research for what is effectively a commercial waste problem represents yet another subsidy to the nuclear industry.
Mr President, in the proposal for a Council decision on the Euratom programme of research in the field of nuclear energy, submitted to us by the Commission, I note that the Union's needs appear to have been identified correctly in the short and long term, but that a medium-term vision seems to be completely lacking.
Even though European nuclear installations have already demonstrated their high safety standards and are the subject of very rigorous control and environmental protection measures, work on this must continue.
This is a field in which Europe is recognised as having genuine expertise - it is a world leader - and our objective has to be to maintain our technological advantage.
We therefore need to invest the necessary research effort.
It should also be said that, of the EUR 11 billion allocated to specific priorities, at least 15% must of course be used for research projects for small and medium-sized enterprises, with a special allocation of EUR 430 million for horizontal research projects.
Finally, there is a need for small and medium-sized enterprises also to be allowed to cooperate with small research groups, newly established and distant research sites and with organisations in the candidate countries.
I believe that it is of vital importance to involve small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the networks of excellence and in the integrated projects.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Busquin, as rapporteur on the sixth RDFP, I should first like to say how pleased I am to see the deadlines for the adoption of the specific programmes being respected.
This will allow the broad guidelines on European research, which we adopted in last May's part-session, to be implemented in the best possible conditions.
Admittedly, the adoption of the rules for participation has been postponed to July.
In any case, the RDFP package - the specific programmes and the rules for participation - will be adopted before the summer recess, which will allow them to be implemented properly on 1 January 2003.
There is no point my reminding you of the list, but I will mention in particular the first of these priorities to say that in the specific programme we have better clarified the status of health and the fight against major diseases, separate from research on the genome.
Finally, the report specifies the research areas adopted at an appropriate level of detail.
Some were nevertheless tempted, but common sense won through and the interests of the majority prevailed: I should like to thank all colleagues for this.
I will conclude by praising the excellent spirit of cooperation between the various political groups, the Commission representatives and Commissioner Busquin, the Council and the Spanish Presidency.
For this reason, the ceiling of EUR 200 million the Commission has set for the ITER programme is misguided.
Nuclear power research and the issue of safety associated with its proper use are largely one and the same thing.
But above and beyond the dream, in a tangible and precise way, we Members of the European Parliament are thus affirming the existence of Europe with all the strength of the creative intelligence that it holds in reserve, whether in its industry, in its universities or in its researchers, and thanks in particular to their mobility.
For the universities it is a strategic challenge to encourage both teaching and research staff to open their minds to this possibility.
I have tabled a number of amendments on this, which have met with the committee's support, for example one on research into sustainable biofuels.
These were part of the package in the Caudron report, and could give a positive indication that we support those technical solutions that offer alternatives to what has very frequently been a matter of dispute here in Parliament.
I now hear, though, that a statement by five Member States has moved the Council to start discussing ethics, which cannot but be satisfactory from our point of view, and I call on the Commission to take a constructive approach and smooth the path to an agreement in Council.
In addition, particular stress has been placed on support and research for small and medium-sized businesses, precisely because of their function of an economic catalyst in Europe.
Moreover, the restructuring of the Common Research Centre has made it more efficient and the confirmation of the budget is an important step towards the creation of a European Research Area.
Lastly, I am pleased to welcome the inclusion of an amendment tabled last June on employment in Europe.
Our request that research should be extended to the development of operating systems and hardware in Europe has been included in the specific programme aimed at integrating and strengthening the European Research Area.
Mr President, from the point of view of the Budget, it is certainly to be welcomed, and in equal degree indispensable, that the Community Research Framework Programme is to be given more concrete form.
Once again I should like - on behalf of the scientific community, essentially - to thank Parliament and all those who have made it possible for us to achieve something that you have rightly described as very positive, that is to adopt these rules in due time, so that we can prepare for 1 January 2003 in the best possible conditions.
Very special attention is paid to it in an area that he did not mention, in the context of support to Community policies, where agriculture will play a very important role.
Moreover, the multifunctionality of agriculture is included in its own right, as are aspects of sustainable rural development and support for biodiversity, which shows clearly that we are not concerned about genomics alone, but also about biodiversity, as a natural process, which may be of interest in many respects.
One very positive point is that the specific programmes have turned out to be absolutely consistent with the framework programme, which, as you know, has been finally approved by the Council and has now been officially in force since 3 June.
Sometimes, however, I have to say that the proposals go into too much detail and, although we can accept them in principle, in some cases it would be more appropriate to include these suggestions in the work programmes.
In particular, as you also mentioned, translational research is a very important aspect, as are, of course, strategies for prevention.
There will not therefore be any problem with incorporating this idea that you expounded in plenary.
On the other hand, I can assure you that the Commission will not be able to accept any of the amendments on life sciences that have just been tabled in plenary if they compromise the balance that we all worked together to achieve between genomics and non-genomics research in the Sixth Framework Programme.
As far as the other thematic priorities are concerned, overall the Commission can accept all of the amendments, apart, however, from those which go into too much detail on the specific programmes, such as on food safety and quality.
These are details and issues that do not fall within the scope of the specific programmes as described in the Sixth Framework Programme.
I think that this idea of science and education has a bearing on our debate on the rules for participation, which is obviously important, but we also think that we need to ensure complementarity with contrasting and similar actions within the thematic priorities.
However, where your amendments on science and society are concerned, we fully agree with those which call for greater involvement of the general public and the stakeholders - such as patients' organisations and environmental associations - in the science and society debate, and those which underline the important role played by teachers and the media in developing a better understanding of science.
This does not mean that basic research and research in general should not be pursued in areas other than implementing ITER, as you rightly stressed, for example on JET and other types of tokamak, such as the stellarator.
They cannot therefore be accepted in full, because we have to keep research into the management of radioactive waste fairly open-ended: there may not be just one solution, but several.
We wish to thank you, as Mrs McNally mentioned, for taking such a keen interest in the Joint Research Centre and for ensuring that it is supported in the framework programme.
I think this idea was already in the Avignon report, but you were right to take it up again.
This therefore needs to be taken into account when considering the general issue of dispersion and non-dissemination, and Europe needs to make its contribution to the joint effort.
Mr Souchet has left I think, but his question on nuclear energy is clearly a general one.
In conclusion, I should like to address some more general issues related to the economy.
I think that this work has been very worthwhile because it points to the emergence of an awareness of and willingness to foster research and innovation in Europe.
This is an objective that we all share and I think it is important for us to launch an information campaign and reflect on the modalities.
If you wish, I would be quite happy to have a meeting with you about this issue, to listen to your proposals and consider how we might best implement the SME strand; in any case they will benefit from over EUR 2 billion under the next framework programme, which is a very significant sum.
In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are going to try to create some momentum, given that in Barcelona we agreed on the objective of 3% of GDP.
I remember that when the idea of the European Research Area was first floated, you insisted on the objective of 3% of GDP.
We are going to achieve this, thanks to you, thanks to the scientific community, and thanks to the desire to make research and innovation a priority at European level.
I should like to thank you in any case for your work and I hope that we will all have played our part in moving things forward.
The debate is closed.
The difficulty was then knowing whether or not the European Parliament could take the view that it had, in fact, been consulted on the matter, given that Rule 6 of its Rules of Procedure requires any request to be addressed to the President of the European Parliament by the competent authorities of a Member State.
It is in this context that the rapporteur suggested a specific procedure that is not intended to replace the request for a waiver of immunity submitted by the competent national authority as laid down in Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure, but instead to prevent national authorities, in the formal absence of such a request, being able not to take account of the protection afforded to the Members of the European Parliament.
