Humanitarian situation of refugees from Iraq (debate) The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the humanitarian situation of refugees from Iraq.
author. - (DE) Mr President, although this resolution on the situation of refugees from and in Iraq is a very sound one, it is silent on the central issue, namely the reasons why there are refugees in and from Iraq.
These people are fleeing because Iraq is in a state of war.
The Bloomberg School of Public Health and the Johns Hopkins University have presented a study, published in the New York Times and the Washington Post, which estimated the number of Iraqis over and above the normal mortality rate who died as a result of the invasion and its consequences between March 2003 and July 2006 to be 650 000.
According to the Johns Hopkins University, the risk of dying a violent death is 58 times higher than before the invasion.
If that happened, there would not, in fact, be as many people who have to flee as there are at present, as has been quite properly stated in the resolution.
I would ask the Council of Ministers, which has also worked incredibly hard with the Government of Iraq, to discuss this with the Commission and with other G8 donors, for example.
As we have heard, the United Nations estimates that 1.8 million people have been forcibly displaced within Iraq and 2 million have fled that unhappy country.
The countries neighbouring Iraq are in desperate straits and in dire need of support.
I should like to thank the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Mr António Guterres, for drawing attention to this disaster, which took place on 7 February.
There seem to be two aspects to the situation in Iraq.
The present Government in Iraq is not persecuting Christians, but the problem is that sects inside the country are, and the Government cannot do anything about it.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, on 8 January, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) issued an urgent call for funding to the donor states for a new USD 60 million aid programme.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the figures given are more or less in agreement: we are now approaching 4 million refugees, around half of whom are 'external' and the other half 'internal' within Iraq.
Today there are only about 6 000 to 8 000 who remain, mainly living in the Nineveh Plain.
As many as 60 000 Assyrian Christians, or perhaps even more, have fled since the beginning of the insurgency that followed the US-led invasion in 2003.
Last April the European Parliament voted for the Assyrians to be allowed to establish, on the basis of Section 5 of the Iraqi Constitution, a federal region where they can practise their own unique way of life, free and safe from outside interference.
The initiative of Sweden, which has agreed to grant refugee status to 9 000 Iraqis, is to be commended.
The illegal military invasion and occupation of Iraq undertaken in 2003 by Mr Bush and his British bulldog, Mr Blair, have brought an unprecedented calamity to the people of Iraq.
There are a million of them in Syria, some 750 000 in Jordan, over 100 000 in Egypt, 40 000 in Lebanon and many more scattered throughout other countries.
In its statement on 2 February 2007, Human Rights Watch called on Syria to immediately open its borders to the Palestinians who are currently in danger in Iraq.
The UN is calling for a contribution of USD 60 million to a fund to help refugees from Iraq.
The European Union must play a leading role in the forthcoming conference to be held in Geneva on 17 April 2007.
As Mr Smith said, that is nearly 4 million people.
The Commission will also explore, in close cooperation with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the possibility for a coordinated effort by EU Member States to resettle refugees from the region.
The debate is closed.
