Application of Directive 2004/38/EC on the right of citizens of the Union and their families to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the Application of Directive 2004/38/EC on the right of citizens of the Union and their families to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, we followed very closely the evolution of the situation in Italy.
We will make sure that Member States observe the principle of non-discrimination in their national legislation and administrative practice.
Under the Directive, the host Member State may expel European citizens also if they no longer fulfil the conditions attached to their right of residence.
The Italian authorities officially notified the Commission of the text of the decree on 7 November 2007.
The decree must be adopted by the Italian Parliament within 60 days.
The social inclusion of Roma communities can also be further improved in these Member States, notably through the structural funds, which can be quite helpful.
In the previous programming period, the structural funds made available more than EUR 275 million for Roma-related projects.
An additional EUR 60 million was made available to Romania and Bulgaria between 2004 and 2006, under the pre-accession instruments.
The funding of Roma-related projects will continue in the structural fund programming period 2007-2013.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mr Frattini on his comprehensive report and on the proposals, ideas, content and values defended in his speech.
It is not a question of nationality or of belonging to a particular ethnic group.
When it comes to freedom of movement, we have to check, in each individual case, what right a citizen of the Union has gained and, when he moves from one country to another, what rights form the basis of the way he should be treated.
It is not possible to say in a general way' 'it is this group's fault, and this group has to go, because none of its members have work permits, or because they do not fit in with our idea of our culture, or because they are all unemployed, or because they are begging'.
Instead, in each and every case, we must ascertain what rights a citizen has, just as in each and every case it is ascertained what rights he has violated.
I was extremely surprised to read your remarks in Il Messaggero.
European Union funds have been made available for the integration of the Roma.
Spain drew down some EUR 52 million and Poland some EUR 8 million.
But if there are problems in Italy, there will be problems in other countries too.
We need to look not only at what does not work, but at what does work, and we need your active commitment, Commissioner, in that task. (Applause from the centre and left) on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank Commissioner Frattini for his detailed report this afternoon.
In my opinion, Directive 2004/38/EC is a valid point of reference, guaranteeing full affirmation of the right of movement of EU citizens, avoiding any form of discrimination and establishing the principle of full integration.
This directive is essentially concerned with protecting the rights of someone residing in a Member State, as well as the rights of citizens of that Member State, in keeping with the principle of reciprocity.
However, I should point out that anyone who commits a crime, anyone who violates human rights, because this is also important, who exploits children, who exploits women or who represents a threat to public safety, must be removed and returned in no uncertain terms to the authorities in his or her country of origin.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our discussion here is not about Italy or Romania, it is about Europe and the life of its citizens: a woman was killed, and our thoughts and sympathies must go to her family; Roma and Romanian citizens are disgracefully attacked; our identity, our values, our laws and our history, including tragedies such as the persecution of the Roma people, let this all be called into question today and let us not forget and make sure that there is no room for racism of any sort.
This is how important our laws are, our treaties are, even our economic regulations, which sanction the value and right of mobility and residence, which are the legitimate rights of European citizens, and not concessions, which can be regulated but not denied.
This is what Article 27 of the directive says, it is the law.
This suffering is why we must make Europe a land of the law and of rights, of sacred laws, particularly when we talk about reception.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, my friends in the new NIP Party in Romania were furious when they learned about the expulsion of thousands of Romanians from Italy.
I hope my friends in the Italian Government agree with this fundamental principle of the European Union.
Meanwhile, Italians would like to do the only right thing: start voting and tell the government to go to hell. (RO) The European Union is a community of values in which respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms prevails and its policies include the security of citizens and the fight against criminality, as well as the protection of children and the fight against instigation to violence.
I believe the Italian State, just like all the other Member States of the European Union, has the duty to protect the rights and liberties of the European citizens residing on its territory, who integrate into the community and obey the laws.
The issue of minorities and, especially, of the Roma minority, is a European issue and it should be approached in a coherent and unitary manner, not only in moments of crisis.
At the same time, I ask the European Commission to urgently examine compliance of the decree law, issued by the Italian authorities, with the European legislation and to give assurance that the implementation of any provisions of this type shall not lead to abuses against honest people, irrespective of their nationality. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is right that our Parliament should send the family of Mrs Reggiani a message of condolence.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for addressing Parliament on this very important issue.
Unfortunately, these recent events have shown us that we need to make more effort to consolidate these rights and ensure they are enforced adequately throughout Europe.
The answer, in a modern Europe, is more police and judicial cooperation, more integration policies, more resources for those called to serve and protect all our citizens, whatever their nationality.
Mr President, the situation of the Roma in Europe is getting worse.
The developments in Italy prove that to us.
In 2005 we adopted a resolution that asked for concerted EU and national action for speeding up the inclusion of Roma.
The rule of law requires that criminal responsibility should be individual and not collective.
The discussion of the application of Directive 2004/38/EC is the right sphere in which to have a debate on the expulsion of Romanian citizens in its proper legislative setting; it is an opportunity to confirm how the free movement of Romanian citizens is an inalienable right of European citizenship.
Mr Guidoni, the decree you are attacking is a decree of your own government, so we need some clarification here.
The distressing events in Italy, and in Rome in particular, are only the latest in a series of incidents that have often gone unheeded or have been ignored.
However, I believe it is only right to add, using the information from the official Caritas report produced in cooperation with the Italian Ministry of the Interior and which paints a fairly serious picture, that this has been happening since 1 January 2007, following the migration of Romanian citizens to Italy on an unprecedented scale in the EU.
An ordinary crime has one or several victims.
As a European, I would not allow one of the Member States - say, Romania - to become a ghetto for the Roma or a European Union Siberia where undesirable European citizens are deported.
I hope that the European Parliament motion for a resolution to be adopted on this issue will bring us together in defending European values and the future of Europe. (Applause) (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the government of each Member State has the right and duty to clamp down on crime to ensure the safety of its citizens and of anyone living and working in the country.
Mr President, according to the Directive, and in compliance with the principle of non-discrimination, all Union citizens and their family members residing in a Member State should enjoy equal treatment.
Alongside the right of freedom of movement, they are entitled to take up employment in the country of residence - regarded as related rights in Article 23 of the Directive.
After a public debate on whether Bulgaria will or will not apply the Community law in this field, and whether to undertake a reciprocal approach, it was decided not to do so and to abide by the common Community goals, so that the European Union could respond adequately to the contemporary global challenges.
The 27 countries of the EU cannot fall into a situation where we transfer the problems from one country to another within its borders.
In 2003, 80% of Roma in Slovakia did not have a registered place of work, 80% of them in Romania and Bulgaria have incomes below the national poverty threshold, and I could list ... (the President cut off the speaker) I could list more of these cases.
Thank you. (NL) Mr President, I believe we readily agree that an effective approach to crime deserves our support, and of course there is never any excuse for murder, but I believe we also agree that the right to reside in the Schengen area is a great asset and is tangible proof of European citizenship.
I am very much in favour of making better use of European funds in order to do more for the Roma, particularly in the new Member States, but I should like to reiterate that in the past this Parliament has already called for recognition of the Roma as a European minority - that is, a very special group, not comparable with other minorities.
Many of you have recalled one or two lines from an interview I gave - one of many - on 2 November.
I started taking a real interest in this question months and months ago.
At the conference of Italian mayors on 19 May, an important meeting which took place months ago - and considering how often I am quoted, I too keep a record - Italian mayors raised the issue of security in their cities with the Italian Minister of the Interior, blaming it on Europe.
On 23 June, at the General Assembly of the ANCI - which as Italian MEPs will know, is the Italian local authority association, presided over by the Mayor of Florence - the Roma reception plan was unveiled following a meeting which had taken place a few days before between local authority representatives and myself.
I challenge you to prove otherwise, that I refused to collaborate when asked to do so by Mr Amato and that I did not respond to requests that the Italian government legitimately made to Europe, as happened a few days ago.
I have been working on this for the past two and a half years and have never been afraid to say that the right of free movement is one of the pillars of the European Union.
Written statements (Article 142) in writing. - (IT) International public opinion has been shaken by the recent tragic events in Rome.
I think it is unfortunate that some political groups are clumsily trying to exploit this situation for political ends, sometimes by evoking a dangerous and counter-productive return to the past.
in writing. - (RO) Criminality has no nationality.
Fighting criminality should not infringe upon the free movement of persons, a fundamental principle of the European construction.
European citizens have the right to live and travel freely, without fear of being persecuted or subject to acts of violence in the Member States.
I ask the Italian State to take actions in order to stop the abuses.
