In addition, on several occasions the Article 36 Committee and the Permanent Representatives Committee were asked to look at individual questions relating to the matter.
The agreement signed in mid-October is temporary and valid until the end of July 2007.
The existence of the ATS has been known to the Council and the Commission since the joint review of the first PNR agreement's application was conducted in September 2005.
The US Department of Homeland Security did not make the system known to the public, however, until 2 November this year, when the news was published in a US official organ.
Mr President, as you know very well, on 19 October the European Union and the United States concluded an agreement for the processing and transfer of passenger name record data by air carriers to the United States Department of Homeland Security.
The information published by the Homeland Security Department reveals a significant difference between the way in which PNR data are handled within the Automated Targeting System and a stricter regime for European PNR data according to undertakings given by the Department of Homeland Security.
The current EU-US agreement on PNR data will expire in July 2007.
At the beginning of 2007 the Commission will recommend the Council to mandate the Presidency, assisted by the Commission, to negotiate a new PNR agreement with the United States.
Finally, a high level contact group was set up at the EU-US ministerial troika meeting on 6 November 2006 to discuss information sharing and protection of personal data for law enforcement purposes.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (SV) Mr President, we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats support Mrs in 't Veld's recommendation relating to the use of passenger data.
We believe that the fight against terrorism cannot be effective if we treat everyone like a potential criminal.
Nevertheless, we cannot under any circumstances accept a level of data protection that is lower than the one guaranteed by Directive 95/46/EC and by Convention No 108 of the Council of Europe, which is legally binding on the Member States.
I would like you to explain that, Mrs Lehtomäki.
I would like to know, furthermore, if it is correct that PNR data have been fed into the ATS since 2002, i.e., two years before the PNR Agreement.
I would also like to get an answer from both the Commission and the Council as to whether, in the future, the European Parliament and the United States Congress will be part of the high-level contact group.
I would also like to know if the Council and Commission are aware of similar databases or programmes in other countries.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I concur with Mrs in 't Veld's views.
It is indeed a bit much that you have admitted to having in fact known about this system for over a year.
I should like to know whether this was actually discussed in the Council and whether the Commission had been briefed about this.
We have therefore asked the United States to give an account of this compatibility, and just yesterday, at a meeting of the Senior Level Group between the European Union and the United States of America, we, as the Presidency, voiced a special concern that the ATS might not comply with the provisions of the PNR agreement and the undertakings.
I will say that this compatibility between the ATS and PNR is now being looked into, and we have to remember that, as it is only now being looked into, there is nothing to suggest that they may not be compatible.
I can tell you that we made a specific request.
If the agreements are not being kept, we will see when the time period expires, and so I think we will also have a chance to evaluate this first test, which was confirmed in the agreement signed on 19 October.
It is clear, then, as Mrs in 't Veld has pointed out, that the information for passengers must be given to them, since it is necessary information that has been agreed upon, and the PNR test that is to be carried out is also intended precisely as a response to this commitment made by the US authorities.
I am also in favour of the European Parliament and the US Congress being involved.
Mrs in 't Veld has brought up a subject that is, itself, also political.
My view is that if the European Parliament and the US Congress together ask to be kept informed or, in any case, to collaborate in the work of the high-level group that we have set up, I for one will agree, but of course I am not the only member of this high-level group.
