China's policy and its effects on Africa (debate) The next item is the report by Ana Maria Gomes, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on China's policy and its effects on Africa.
rapporteur. - (PT) Mr President, China's unrestrained quest for oil, natural resources and new markets in Africa raises concerns about the impact of China's growing presence in that continent and the respective ramifications for European policies.
In this report we have tried to analyse China's presence in Africa in an objective way, acknowledging both the positive and negative impacts.
This is because there can be no good governance without respect for human rights and without good governance, and the rule of law it implies, there will be no sustainable development in Africa or any other part of the world.
In reality, everything China does in Africa has a political impact, be it positive or negative.
It is therefore vital that Europe does not stop trying to get across to Beijing that what is expected of a permanent member of the UN Security Council, such as China, is in fact a contribution towards promoting UN principles and objectives.
I support the numerous recommendations that you made concerning the policy that the European Union must adopt to tackle China's growing presence in Africa.
I would like to talk to you today about the points that I consider promising, in order to engage China and our African partners in trilateral cooperation.
It is confirming its status as an international and global player, taking action on major global issues.
For example, we have already commenced a dialogue on peace, stability and sustainable development in Africa.
If it works then so much the better, but I doubt it.
It is important for Chinese aid to be aligned with African's national priorities, national systems, preferably in conjunction with other partners.
This is a long-term goal, but for now I can only see three areas where our cooperation and dialogue can be concentrated.
Thirdly, we need to honour our commitments in terms of the Paris Agenda.
We Europeans and the Chinese must start with the African agenda and make contributions and pool our respective advantages, without sacrificing the values and principles that have guaranteed the stability, peace and prosperity of Europe over the last 50 years.
The Chinese authorities must respect the principles of democracy, good governance and human rights in their relations with Africa.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs equally deplores the fact that Beijing excludes a number of African states from the strategic partnership between China and Africa, purely because of their diplomatic contacts with Taiwan.
The economic upturns in many Latin American and African countries are largely down to the economic rise of China.
China's activities, whether in investment, trade or aid in Africa, have grown at a mesmerising rate over the last number of years.
The value of Chinese trade with Africa increased from USD 2 billion in 1999 to almost USD 40 billion in 2005.
It is true that the potential for development abounds in many Africa countries, but corrupt African governments have for decades shown a disregard for their populations, denying them the possibility to develop.
The output per head there is USD 714 a year.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, first of all I would like to congratulate Ms Gomes on this serious, politically very important report.
At the same time, China must take her responsibilities in the area of human rights and development.
Just this week, Zambia, Mozambique, South Africa and Tanzania blocked attempts by a Chinese vessel to deliver a massive shipment of ammunition, mortars and other lethal armaments to President Mugabe in Zimbabwe.
These weapons could play an anti-democratic, even deadly role, in the hands of the Mugabe regime.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I should like to thank Ms Gomes for the huge amount of work she has done on this report and her close cooperation with colleagues.
The World Bank estimates that illegal logging costs developing countries USD 15 billion a year in lost revenue.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, the report by Mrs Gomes presents all the most important aspects of the Chinese presence in Africa.
The first aim is to ensure supplies of raw materials using fairly brutal raw materials diplomacy.
Hence the violation of even a UN embargo on trade in arms with Darfur, Liberia and Congo.
Finally, we can even bin the United Nations Charter, but in that case we shall cease to know what our role in world politics is based on, and in what way we differ from other players in world politics.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DA) Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Gomes for the excellent and balanced report and for an excellent cooperation.
In the EU, we are used to having a leading role in Africa in terms of trade and development.
The EU's presence in Africa is not without its problems; however, China's presence is threatening to develop in a highly unfortunate direction.
China's enormous demand for raw materials and energy is governing Chinese investments without any particular concern for the healthy development of society.
This is certainly what the report is encouraging: that a good dialogue be established between the EU, China and Africa to the benefit of all parties.
on behalf of the IND/DEM group. - (FR) Madam President, let's hear it for Mrs Gomes, but I would also like to ask a general question.
It is only profiting from our weakness, not least of all the stupid and dangerous disengagement of Europe, and France in particular, from a continent which will become increasingly important to us in the 21st century. (DE) Madam President, it is becoming clear in the example of Africa that the much vaunted development cooperation does not usually go quite so much to plan as one would like to imagine.
In this context the latest ambitions of China and India on the African continent should be treated from a European viewpoint with the utmost scepticism.
As regards Africa, we therefore need a policy that demands stability, democracy and human rights, as well as - and this is the most important point - one that has European interests in mind.
Issues such as human rights, the rule of law and good governance, which some of our fellow Members have already addressed today, do not hold any sway at the moment for the Chinese in Africa.
I am of the firm conviction that we must place greater emphasis on anchoring the African nations in the world economy so that they are able to benefit from globalisation on the world markets with their raw materials, with their resources, with everything they have to offer, and not become unilaterally dependent on Chinese monopolies.
Only then will we succeed in promoting the rule of law, democracy and human rights in Africa and thereafter succeed in not allowing the African nations to drift off in China's direction, because Africa will certainly learn nothing from China - we have learnt this the hard way in recent weeks - about how democracy and the social market economy operate. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Ana Gomes, on the excellent job she has done.
The Chinese contribution to Africa as an aid donor is a good thing, but I would like to take a few moments to highlight two aspects: for us Europeans - partly on the basis of the principles and commitments enshrined in the Cotonou agreement and more generally in line with the overall framework of our development policy - it is worrying that China, along with aid, is unfortunately exporting a number of dreadful domestic practices including corruption, bad lending, lack of respect for workers' rights, and a low level of consideration for environmental matters.
Another issue that needs to be carefully monitored is the close relationship between Beijing and certain totalitarian and repressive regimes in Africa, such as Sudan and Zimbabwe.
In this context, China needs to shoulder all the responsibilities that come with its role as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. (LT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, China's policy in Africa poses a threat to the harmonious development of the African countries.
China continues to offer African dictators political and financial aid and is escalating military cooperation with African regimes.
Therefore, I would like to urge the EU to ensure that China does not fail to ignore respect for human rights and good administration when implementing investments and that any trade in arms with African countries where a war or military conflict is taking place or is imminent should be stopped.
Until China is prepared to stop trading in arms, the EU should impose an arms embargo on the country.
There is one more thing that needs to be pointed out, and this is mainly that in view of China's policy in Africa the individual EU Member States should overcome their disagreements.
Newly reexamined EU policy would enable Africa to use its natural and human resources in a mutually beneficial way and continue with the development of its economical and political independence. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, the report by Mrs Gomes is in effect a detailed lecture on the subject of the highly complex trilateral links between African states and China, with particular reference to EU interests.
There is only one conclusion: we must work together to develop the best methods for sustainable yet accelerated and durable development for these states. (NL) Madam President, in Article 65 of her thorough report, Mrs Gomes calls on the European Union and China not to pursue arms trade deals with African governments that are guilty of human rights violations, are involved in conflicts or are on the brink of war.
Mrs Gomes's report also gives cause for this. (FR) Commissioner, after everything that you have said, let us examine China's presence in Africa.
As you say, everyone has a right to act on the economic and political stage and no-one will bar them from doing so, but the Chinese have aggregated their efforts and are moving towards their goals with a certain plan; but what are the goals they strive for?
Unencumbered by any stain or label of colonialism, they can and will exploit natural resources in Africa.
We are doing this, but the Chinese are squeezing us out.
Commissioner, we are faced with an enormous challenge. (DE) Madam President, renewed interest in Africa throughout the world is attended by a change in perspective.
There are growth rates of up to 10% in some African countries.
Regarding Africa's development, I believe that there is so much work to do on this continent and that China, as a new player, should be welcome to participate.
However, what I strongly fear is that instead of channelling its support in constructive endeavours - health, education, poverty reduction and infrastructure - China would continue to engage in feeding the tragedies of the continent and will do it by arms trafficking and undermining whatever steps African countries make towards democracy, good governance and respect for human rights.
The Chinese ship carrying guns for Zimbabwe again calls into question China's real commitment to contributing to peace and security in Africa.
Many African countries welcome their cooperation with China as there is no political conditionality linked to the economic benefits, but the EU should continue to strongly advocate, both to China and the African countries, institution building, human rights advancement and more transparent rules regarding the exploitation of natural resources.
Recent developments have shown that, even in those cases where in the last couple of years governments started to show more openness on how public money and resources were spent, they have gone back to a less transparent administration.
The EU has the duty to help China to become a trusted partner in development cooperation. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, despite the lively trade between China and African countries, and even despite the fact that China has recently become a net donor with regard to Africa, it is still Europe, not China, that African emigrants choose, despite our colonial past.
This gives the European Union a moral right, but also a duty, to examine Chinese policy vis-à-vis Africa, since, as the rapporteur rightly stresses, China could significantly accelerate the process of sustainable development in Africa, but could equally harm it.
In view of this, the idea of holding trilateral talks between the European Union, African Union member states and China is particularly worthy of support. (CS) The Chinese courtship with Africa is not just about military cooperation, strategically important raw materials, large-scale investment and the creation of an enormous market for Chinese products; it is also about building infrastructure.
The volume of trade has multiplied five-fold since 2000 and will soon total USD 100 billion, although Western trade is for the moment still responsible for up to two thirds of African trade revenue.
The Chinese policy is based on the concept of 'non-interference' and comparative economic advantage.
China's influence on African countries is a dangerous example of a totalitarian model, and a corrupt market model, devoid of any respect for individuals or human rights, or any respect for the environment.
The Chinese hunger for raw materials in exchange for unconditional supplies of weapons to Africa is becoming a bigger and bigger obstacle in achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
China is, after all, a permanent member of the UN Security Council and as such has a responsibility for the developments in Africa.
I support a dialogue with China on harmonising policies in Africa with a view to reducing poverty, but I am not holding my breath.
We must put a stop to the plundering of raw materials and help Africa to become economically independent.
We must adhere to our strategy of trade policies based on respect for human rights and environmental protection.
I pray to God that we can achieve this. (ET) First, I would like to thank Ana Gomes for this report.
And one final remark: point 13 of the AFET suggestions. 'Considers that Chinese engagement in Africa, on the one hand, and the newly launched EU-Africa strategic partnership, on the other, should be compatible with each other;' First, I do not believe that our policy should be aligned with that of the People's Republic of China, and I am even less convinced that the Chinese will even begin to take our narrative-style recommendations into consideration. (RO) The value of trade between China and Africa increased from 2 billion euros in 1999 to approximately 39.7 billion euros in 2005, China being the third partner of Africa at present as regards the importance of trade.
It is more important for us to see what we will do and what the European Union will do in this circumstance.
I agree with Commissioner Louis Michel who said that, unfortunately, the European Union does not take advantage of its unique position toward Africa.
At last, a more important European presence in Africa should transform from intention to reality.
Madam President, China has begun to increase substantially its diplomatic and economic links with Africa over the last decade, largely because of a demand for raw materials.
Chinese trade with this continent has quadrupled since 2001, with a scramble for resources also having negative consequences and perpetuating corrupt and oppressive elites in Africa.
Instead, the EU needs to press China to adopt more criteria for development in its relations with Africa.
China is a major power, a permanent member of the UN Security Council and therefore has responsibilities in Africa and all over the world.
Madam President, I congratulate my colleague, Ms Gomes, on an excellent report.
This means China playing a full and active role in all the post-war Bretton Woods institutions that we have so carefully built.
Either we empower China to play a full and active role in the liberal open-to-all rules-based multilateral institutions built after Bretton Woods - and this includes the EU, the ACP, Rio, Bali, in addition to the UN, WTO, IMF and the World Bank - or, we force China, through our short-termism, to withdraw and inevitably, in time, to destroy these institutions and build her own, to suit her superpowers, institutions.
That task is to engage the oldest and largest nation on earth in all the affairs of the planet Earth as our partner. (SK) Ladies and gentlemen, my visit to China in March this year convinced me of the timeliness of this debate.
I think that as far as the European Union is concerned China is not only an important trading partner but also a serious competitor.
The report by Mrs Gomes corroborates my personal experience.
China's ambition is to become Africa's largest trading partner by 2010; its actions in Africa therefore present a serious challenge for the EU. (PL) Madam President, China's interest in African oil, precious metals and gas is beginning to be a little reminiscent of the old colonial policies of certain European powers.
The EU should become considerably more involved in Africa's development.
We cannot stand by as neutral observers while this new Chinese domination proceeds. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Gomes for the excellent report she has produced, but in the little time I have I would like to draw the Commissioner's attention, and that of my fellow Members, to a practical case of this relationship that is occurring right before our very eyes.
It is my belief that in our relationship with China we have to draw China's attention, as a major power and the huge country it is, to its responsibilities on the international stage and to maintain peace and uphold peoples' rights. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, over the last 10-15 years China has become the most rapidly developing economy in the world, as witnessed by the 10% plus annual increase in its national income.
Such a rapid development in economic potential means that China is becoming one of the world's leading trade partners.
Over the past 15 years, the value of trade between China and Africa has increased 20 times over.
The European Union should keep tabs on China's expansion in Africa.
We should consequently strive to ensure that aid offered to these countries is linked to a significant broadening of trade relations with Africa. (DE) Madam President, I should also like to extend my congratulations on the report.
It very clearly demonstrates that China can also be an example.
member of the Commission. - (FR) Obviously it is extremely frustrating for MEPs, in a debate as important as this one and with such an excellent report, to have so little time.
Our past certainly gives us no right to think this and I would just like to remind everyone of that.
The more you say to Africans, the more you go and tell them that they must be wary of the Chinese, that they are determined to colonise African countries, that this is the resource curse, the more you say that, the less they will hear you and the less they will want to listen to you.
It is founded on shared values, it is founded on tolerance, it is founded on openness, it is founded on dialogue, it is founded on feedback, it is founded on mutual respect.
I am not afraid of that and I believe that, if we truly want to be present in Africa - as someone said, this is very important - we must do as I suggest and add another ingredient to the mix.
I am sorry, Madam President, for taking so long, but I have expressed a belief that comes from my experience with these countries every day.
People have always said that Europe has little political influence.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I would like to recall that our colleague Erika Mann, who was the draftswoman for the opinion of the Committee on International Trade, could not be here.
She asked me to stress this point which we have included in the report: it is about the importance for Africa of developing its own strategy towards China, noting that such a strategy can enhance the reciprocal nature of trade relations between China and Africa if it is focused on greater participation by African workers in Chinese projects in Africa, greater willingness on the part of China to transfer technology, and better access to Chinese markets for African exports.
rapporteur. - (FR) Allow me to thank Commissioner Michel and my other fellow Members for their comments and for the valid questions raised.
China has helped Europe to understand that there is enormous potential in Africa and that there are success stories in Africa.
This is very positive.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (PL) The report by Mrs Gomes is undoubtedly a detailed and interesting analysis of the presence of the People's Republic of China in Africa.
I cannot, however, rid myself of the impression that somewhere between trade, investments, infrastructure, energy and other important matters, we have lost sight in this report of a matter that is of fundamental importance from the aspect of both the institution that we represent - the European Parliament - and the Committee on Development, which is responsible for this report.
in writing. - (FI) The report by Mrs Gomes is a vital contribution to the debate on this major challenge to international cooperation.
The economic boost given to it by its most important trading partner, Europe aside, has reduced poverty.
This is apparent, for example, in Darfur.
in writing. - (PL) The rising power that is China is having an enormous impact on the process of sustainable development in Africa, but we must bear in mind that African states are responsible for the overall impact of the presence of foreigners and foreign organisations or governments on their territory.
Both the EU and China are acting to promote security, peace and sustainable development in Africa, but the EU is the greatest donor and the main trade partner for Africa as things currently stand.
Although China has a raft of positive experience through lifting 400 million of its own citizens out of extreme poverty over the past 25 years, we must nevertheless concentrate on the enormous social and economic inequities, as well as the alarming degradation of the natural environment, the restriction of fundamental freedoms and low employment standards.
We must monitor the exploitation of African natural resources, as it may lead to their total exhaustion and the spread of corruption, as well as to a deepening of social inequality and the instigation of conflicts, which will have a negative impact on the development of African countries.
It is precisely the Western states' trade and consumption that is having the effect of increasing China's demand for African natural resources, resulting in increasing CO2 emissions in developing countries.
The EU should raise the issue of justice in relation to trade, climate and other problems as part of trilateral cooperation with China and Africa.
in writing. - Mr President, the most disturbing fact about China's policy in Africa is that they are providing non-conditional aid and investments there.
The development assistance that the European Union contributes has always been bound with strict conditions concerning democratic progress, recognition of the rule of law and good governance as well as respect for human rights.
China's pragmatic "no conditions" cooperation with repressive regimes in Africa undermines the efforts that the European Union has made to incite democratic state-building in Africa and challenges us to introduce some new more flexible policies on Africa.
China's growing interest and involvement in Africa endangers European interests there and in order not to lose ground in Africa we must come forward with some new more attractive means to encourage democratic transition in African countries.
in writing. - Napoleon told us that we should let China sleep, for when she wakes, she will shake the world.
China has the same interests in exploiting African countries as some of our European states have had over the centuries.
We have learned our lessons at great cost, but China has yet to learn how to implement human rights internally while already experimenting in colonial rule.
