The Committee on Missing Persons can count not only on the Commission's political support but also on the financial support of the European Union.
In 1995 we had the first resolution here in Parliament, an important step in raising the awareness of the European public and international public opinion.
In its decision - and I think it is in the interests of all of us to study it - it confirmed the clear infringements of fundamental human rights and of the European Convention on Human Rights by Turkey, specifically of Article 2 on the right to life, of Article 3 on the right to freedom and security and of Article 4 on the right not to be maltreated.
Despite all this, it is now 2007 and, unfortunately, very few results have ensued from the investigation of this problem.
It is the outcome of tragic events in Cyprus in the 1960s, from 1964 onwards following the clashes between the two communities and, of course, it is the outcome of the Turkish invasion in 1974.
I also believe that all of us here, with the humanitarian sensitivity for which we are known, will continue to demonstrate our interest and, as the motion for a resolution states, it is very important for the European Parliament to contribute to developments or, if you like, to monitor them through the periodic reports which the committee must submit.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (ES) Mr President, the problem of missing persons is a drama that is part of the history of many countries of the world.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the missing persons in Cyprus has been an open wound for over 30 years.
I am thinking of projects by filmmakers and intellectuals, such as Panikos Chrysanthou and Niyazi Kizilyürek, and also of the bi-communal art project Manifesta 6 and many other projects, which we must support if all the dreadful images of Cyprus we have seen in the past are to remain in the past and not recur in the future.
The demolition of the bridge on Ledra Street is a sign of hope.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (EL) Mr President, we have been living through the tragedy of ignorance about the fate of some 2 000 of our missing Turkish Cypriot and Greek Cypriot compatriots in Cyprus for years now.
The Turkish Government says nothing of their whereabouts or of the circumstances of their disappearance, despite the European Court of Human Rights ruling of 10 May 2001 condemning Turkey in the strongest possible terms for such behaviour, which, in the words of the Court's ruling, 'attains a level of severity which can only be categorised as inhuman treatment'.
