In particular, we must stress the importance of this policy for boosting cohesion in an enlarged European Union, which will experience a particular increase in disparities between levels of development in its regions and the need to make resources available to match the new requirements.
Thus it: endorses the Commission's stance of rejecting attempts at the renationalisation of regional and cohesion policy and its determination to maintain a genuine Community policy; supports the Commission's view on the application of EU regional and cohesion policy to all the regions of the EU which, of course, meet the relevant criteria; reiterates the need for greater coordination between regional and cohesion policy and policies with a significant impact on the land, such as agriculture, fishing, transport, research and technology, education and training and information society policy; stresses the need for a link between future regional policy and European competition policy; repeats Parliament's position that the current threshold of 0.45% of Community GDP allocated to the cohesion policy is a threshold below which it is not possible to fall; emphasises the fact that the Commission ought to pay special attention to those regions suffering from the statistical effects of enlargement and to treat them as regions similar to Objective 1 areas; calls for the European Commission to pay special attention to cases where regions have naturally emerged from Objective 1 status by their own efforts but which also require adequate financial support to consolidate their upward progress; considers that special attention should be paid to the ultra-peripheral regions and sparsely populated areas and the least favoured islands; accepts that the threshold of 75% of the average GDP in the Member States of the European Union must remain the essential criterion for eligibility for Objective 1, draws attention to the vital role played by the Cohesion Fund, especially for the new Member States and supports the idea of a new Objective 2 to foster regional competitiveness in accordance with the Lisbon and Göteborg guidelines; considers that regional areas in which permanent geographical handicaps, island or mountain areas, areas of low population density etc., which are not eligible for support from other Structural Funds, should be eligible for support from a reformed Objective 2 or from some other new specific Community initiative; backs the Commission in its regional approach to development, particularly the idea of a single programme and a single financial package per region; stresses the need for consistency in the policy for regional cooperation in its three dimensions, namely cross-border (land or sea), trans-national and inter-regional; finally, endorses the Commission's main goal of simplifying the rules for implementing regional policy, reiterates Parliament's request for tripartite contracts between the Commission, Member State and the region and stresses once again its conviction that it is both necessary and feasible to achieve a proper balance between simplification and scrutiny.
Our parliamentary committee calls on the European Commission, and the leading Commissioner Mr Barnier in particular, to continue their efforts in the direction indicated by the European Union compass and the current climate.
I should like to thank in particular all those who helped complete my report, Members and assistants alike, and all of you contributing today.
First, on the fact, as stated in the report, that we cannot fall below 0.45% of GDP in future cohesion policy.
As Commissioner Barnier has also pointed out in the past, Parliament considers that if Community funding falls below this point for cohesion policies, these policies, especially in view of enlargement, will cease to be reliable and efficient.
My second comment concerns Objective 2, which will obviously have to be simplified so that actions have greater visibility and better results for citizens, which is why we prefer a new Objective 2 with thematic actions.
It is becoming clear and I think it has also been understood by the Commission, which has from time to time organised seminars with local and regional authorities on the subject, especially in the run up to the new programming period, that we need to pool our thoughts as to how these actions can be made more efficient by simplifying them.
Hopefully, this added term will form an adequate legal basis so that we have something more specific and more tangible in the future for these areas.
Nonetheless, Parliament feels there is still a need to clarify Article 158 of the Treaty on island areas.
It is translated in different ways in different languages.
Parliament also feels that, over and above structural actions, the article referring to state aid, namely Article 87, also needs to be amended so that the areas we are talking about today are also included in the areas needing special treatment.
Parliament also adds that, for these areas with a permanent geographical handicap, there can and should be a higher percentage of Community co-financing in future through the Structural Funds.
The Commissioner recently ordered studies on the subject.
The time has therefore come, Mr President, for action rather than words.
I should like to comment on the two reports together.
I should now like to say something on the outstanding points, which are also mentioned in the reports.
The third proposal is for a real Objective 2 for those areas undergoing structural change.
A few changes are probably needed to the Pomés Ruiz report to achieve this, and we hope that we will be adopting those today.
Thank you, Mr Duin.
Economic and social disparities between the Member States have lessened, but inequalities within the Member States have persisted and even deepened.
We must not, however, pit regions in difficulties in the present Union against poor regions in the new Member States.
Our group supports the main arguments in the reports.
I am not going to go over the content of the reports again here, but I would like to highlight the importance of a few matters.
This will demand determined work on the part of the Commission and the Member States also.
Despite the best efforts of those responsible for regional policy at European and national level, the challenges that we face today in the year 2003 are not diminishing.
A very great burden is placed on economic and social cohesion even today.
For them the principle should apply that they can claim the same financial support and rights to subsidies as they did before enlargement.
In too many places we have simply squandered EU funds, and this is no longer acceptable in an EU of 25.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must look at all the factors in the analysis that compelled both the European Commission and Parliament to discuss this major issue, and I am referring here to the processes that have led to enlargement.
Therefore, enlargement has been a factor in our considerations, and our conclusion is that a war between the poor must be avoided, given the consequences of such an occurrence.
I believe that we need to ensure that Objective 2 is not too all-embracing; we need to ensure that the Member States can manage Structural Funds that have been obtained in the first stage properly and coordinate them more effectively in the next stage.
This policy must be founded on the principle of solidarity, in order to reduce the disparities between regions, and to establish the principle of the equality of European citizens, regardless of where they live.
I agree with the rapporteur that it would be a mistake to concentrate all our financial support on the new Member States, and to neglect the currently eligible areas.
I welcome the proposal to supplement Article 158 of the EC Treaty.
I am thinking here both of the budget for cohesion policy of 0.45% of GDP and of keeping Objective 1 areas as the main focus of our support.
That is why the report clearly underlines, on the basis of our amendments submitted in the committee, that particular attention must be paid to the regions suffering from the impact of these statistical changes, and that in the future too these areas should be treated as similar to Objective 1 areas with the equivalent level of support and with the aid administered in accordance with Article 87, paragraph 3(a).
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems clear to me, as it does to the rapporteur and to the Commission, that we cannot approach cohesion policies and Structural Funds in an ideological way.
The future of the European Union is firmly linked to the quality and future of cohesion policies.
As many colleagues have said, it is essential to make the 0.45% threshold a minimum threshold, in the sense that the European Union's commitment in cohesion policies cannot fall below this percentage, and it is good that, given the decisions facing the European Union on the eve of enlargement, this is being established as a political principle and not merely as an arithmetic one.
The declaration annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam on the structural disadvantages of islands has never been converted into specific measures.
I would also like to urge the Commission to make greater endeavours to simplify the regional policy implementation rules and to ensure clearer distribution of responsibilities and competences between all those involved in cohesion policy.
I would also like to call upon the Commission to continue with the endeavour that has been made thus far to lay down some priorities in cohesion policies.
I speak not only for my own country of Scotland but also from knowledge of some of the more remote Greek islands and of the north of Finland and Sweden.
However, the problems of island status, mountainous terrain and sparse population affect many areas in other Member States and in some accession countries too.
However, I would like to single out the calls for mountainous regions to be classified as agriculturally disadvantaged in relation to Structural Fund regulations, for permanent geographical handicaps to be taken more fully into account where rules on state aid are concerned and for the causes of emigration to be addressed.
The region extends over 47 000 square kilometres and the whole of the interior is becoming depopulated.
Mr President, I believe that economic and social cohesion will make or break the future of the European Union, the Union of 25.
Therefore, we need to preserve the European Union's minimum intervention threshold, we need to stem the flow of people leaving mountain areas, we need to intervene in disadvantaged islands, which are disadvantaged not only because of their distance from mainland Europe but also because of inherent problems to which Europe must find an immediate solution.
The Commissioner stresses that in the EU of 15, 48 regions - accounting for 18% of the population - had a per capita income below 75% of the average, whereas in an enlarged Union a total of 67 regions will fall below the 75% threshold - representing 26% of total population.
If control of funding were to be returned to national governments, I am confident that the UK Government would be aware of the serious need for funding in my own region - the South-West - where we have suffered tremendously from the effects of the EU's disastrous common fisheries policy and common agricultural policy.
Funding administered by our own government would ensure that the whole transport infrastructure - rail, road and air - receives the attention it deserves for the benefit of all our small businessmen in the South-West, and all of those people involved in our vital tourism industry.
Mr President, I have stood before this House many times over the past four years and called for revisions to the way in which European Union Structural and Cohesion Funds are administered.
Mr President, the European Union's regional and structural policy must be based on genuine solidarity between the different regions of the EU.
We must take full account of the needs of the new Member States in future proposals to ensure there is effective use of aids to achieve structural reforms and that the aids have permanent effects on citizens' lives.
Although we are taking the new Member States into full consideration, the regions in the current Member States needing special support must also be included in any new plans.
It is vital that these permanent handicaps should be seen as the same kind of factor that hampers competitiveness as that which has been described regarding island regions.
Thus, the means by which aid is delivered to the outlying, sparsely populated northern regions is not the most important consideration, as long as these needs are taken account of with a sufficient sense of solidarity and equality.
I also trust that, whilst the new proposal on structural and regional policy after 2007 is being drafted during this autumn, the Commission will show a sense of fairness and also include in its proposal the regions that have a low population density which are situated in the north and where distances are long.
Mr President, cher Monsieur le Commissaire, the report we are in a quandary about approving contains a genuinely fundamental change to regional policy.
We in sparsely populated Finland are familiar with such disadvantages, and these were also noted in the important accession treaty for Finland, Sweden and Austria.
An important part of the policy may also consist of countries being given opportunities to receive certain smaller sums by way of general aid and of companies that maintain services of general interest being required to ensure that such services operate.
We also need rules within agricultural policy enabling small-scale agriculture in the archipelago to survive.
Mr President, the failure of the stated ambition of the European Union's regional policy to bring about economic and social cohesion presages even more unfavourable prospects for its application to the weaker Member States following enlargement.
For example, after 23 years of integration, Greece is still the poorest country in the European Union.
The lack of resources and constant cutbacks have not helped to strengthen the widely broadcast concept of cohesion or stabilise the level of development.
In addition, the poor regions have more than doubled since enlargement.
This state of affairs, Mr President, is such that we cannot accept the rapporteurs' appraisal of the excellent results achieved during the course of the economic and social cohesion of the regions of the European Union.
Mr President, cohesion policy must take account of the special circumstances of the very small islands.
On an organisational and political basis, the EU at present deals with all the islands under the one heading, so that even very small and sparsely populated islands come into the same category as islands with many thousands of inhabitants.
I myself live on a small island, Endelave, which has 180 inhabitants and is situated an hour's sail out into the Kattegat.
To the extent that structural development funds exist, the very small islands must also be allocated these, and national scope must be created for supporting development on the very small islands.
It is quite grotesque that, on the one hand, we should have a set of regulations that inflicts unnecessary expenditure upon the small islands and their lifeblood, while we, at the same time, talk about development aid for these areas.
Mr President, Commissioner, in the context of the debate on the future of regional policy, there is a very wide consensus that priority for the least developed regions should be maintained.
Concentrating resources on the Objective 1 regions should, therefore, constitute one of the key pillars of cohesion policy for the period 2007-2013, as is the case now.
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to thank the rapporteurs for the worthwhile work they have done.
People must be able to reside throughout Europe.
It is important also to be able to live in those areas that are most vulnerable when market forces promote urbanisation in Europe.
We must now, in connection with enlargement, have a solidarity policy, and we must bind Europe together.
That must happen through regional policy, but also through transport policy and competition policy, which are at least as important if we are to be able to live throughout Europe.
I therefore find it extremely commendable that we have obtained the Pomés Ruiz report, in which mountains, islands and regions with low population density are highlighted and in which attention is drawn to the special role of regional policy in Europe when it comes to aid for these areas.
To summarise, aid for mountain regions, islands and regions with low population density is therefore important.
European policy must not place obstacles in the way of development in these regions.
Both in the present Treaty and that being drafted by the European Convention regional and social cohesion is presented as a principle that runs through all policy areas.
Then these least favoured regions in terms of their economy would be having to pay more for enlargement than the regions that are economically the strongest, which, on the other hand, will benefit most from it.
Outstanding commitments now stand at more than EUR 90 billion, or almost the equivalent of the budget for three years.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as part of this joint debate on economic and social cohesion, we are analysing the Mastorakis report on the Commission's second progress report on European cohesion policy.
Regional policy and cohesion policy have played and continue to play a vital role in the development of Member States such as Portugal and their full integration into the European Union.
It should not be forgotten, however, that although major differences already exist between some European regions in terms of their levels of development, these disparities will become even more marked after enlargement.
For that reason, and because the cohesion policy has proved to be a success in Portugal, I oppose the renationalisation of this development tool.
I have no hesitation in saying that these policies have brought the European Union alive.
Mr President, as other Members have already done, I too would like to express my complete satisfaction that, at the conclusion of the Convention's work on the new Constitutional Treaty for the European Union, it was confirmed that all the effects of the cohesion policies, in terms of identity and Community strategies, would be recognised in the Constitution.
To conclude, a few observations regarding the two specific, additional problems that we are facing: as regards the statistical impact, on which much has already been said, I agree with the rapporteur's proposals, but, regarding interventions in regions with structural territorial handicaps - islands and mountain regions - we should not forget that we are talking about structural handicaps.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the first challenge facing the future of regional policy is, of course, that of enlargement.
In the first place, territorial cohesion is needed to take account of the geographical diversity of the European Union, in order to ensure that all European citizens are treated equally.
Secondly, economic and social cohesion are necessary to ensure that the regions that are currently most vulnerable are not sacrificed on the altar of enlargement.
The very fabric of our common project is being tested in this way.
For me, solidarity is not a question of charity, but of distribution and holistic thinking.
I should like to quote Article 3 just briefly: 'The Union shall work for the sustainable development of Europe based on balanced economic growth, a social market economy, [that is] highly competitive ...
It shall promote economic, social and territorial cohesion, and solidarity among Member States' Two of our fundamental values in Article 2 are solidarity and non-discrimination.
And in doing so it is all about putting definite measures in place to achieve the European Union's objective.
Mr President, we are currently dealing with the challenge of adapting cohesion policy and Structural Funds to an enlarged Union of 25 members in 2004 and 27 members by 2007.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish everyone a pleasant beginning to the working year and let us hope it gets off to a rewarding start.
Hopefully we all realised during the summer that there is life outside Parliament too.
Obviously, you can pour however much you like into something like this, but is it wise?
We should consider Britain's proposal that there should only be support for the EU's poorest regions.
In practice this would mean that only the new Member States would receive aid.
If we are going to make the EU a dynamic area, as we said we would at Lisbon, we should understand that money does not grow on trees, not even in this age of GMOs.
It is obvious that in the future it is precisely the regions in the acceding countries that will be in receipt of European aid, because it is in regional policy that we actually see Europe in action and catch a glimpse of European solidarity.
That is why it is not only a just but also a robust solution that needs to be found for the 18 regions concerned.
The mountain regions are rich in a number of different kinds of resources - environmental, economic and human - but they need direct, practical aid to enable these resources to be successfully harnessed.
According to the statistics, 30% of Europe is taken up by mountains and, with enlargement, this specific feature, this specific characteristic, will account for over 40% of the territory.
Objective 2 is too all-embracing and too flexible, it includes too many items and lumps together the needs of regions which are essentially different.
This is an example of how the mountain regions are directly relevant to the interests and needs of all.
Currently these areas have Objective 1 status.
EU regional policy has contributed to the development effort in these areas by improving competitiveness and encouraging entrepreneurship.
Northern Finland can also act as an EU gateway to north-west Russia, with access to vast national resources and hence huge potential.
If they are not eligible under other Structural Funds they should benefit from the renewed Objective 2 or other similar Community initiatives.
The Cohesion Fund is an invaluable tool in helping less well-off Member States catch up, particularly in the development of infrastructure networks and upgrading of water supplies, in order to contribute to the long-term sustainable development of disadvantaged regions.
The enlargement countries will be greatly helped by simplification of the implementation rules.
Whilst I acknowledge the argument for targeting major projects, when these projects skew funding away from Objective 1 areas, as has happened in my country, some pressure should be put on national governments to recognise their role and duty in the use of cohesion funding for balanced regional development.
The EUR 80 billion surplus in structural cohesion funding would be better used if it were returned to Member States in order to specifically target the internal imbalances in disadvantaged regions struggling with poor water supply or poor road infrastructure.
It is worth stating at the outset that the whole House is of the opinion that Objective 1 should remain unchanged, and that regions due to lose Objective 1 status as a result of enlargement should not lose their aid.
To put this another way, it is necessary to consider whether citizens resident in areas of low population density, mountain or island regions, and who therefore experience difficulty in competing with other Europeans on equal terms are to be covered by a Community territorial policy, regardless of their income.
Mountain regions, regions with low population density and island regions must receive specific aid.
I am confident that the Council, the Commission and the Commissioner will heed the report by this House rather than the report by Mr Sapir.
Of course, at the same time the Commission has been thinking for some months now about the future financial perspective.
That strategy will be contained in the third progress report on cohesion, which is planned for the end of this year.
Since the forum on cohesion in May 2001, the Commission has been frankly and openly seeking contributions from Parliament and from your committees, but also from local authorities, from associations of elected representatives and from Member States.
Yet cohesion policy, solidarity policy, which is something that Europe can be proud of, and which was one of the best and most practical policies of the European Union, is not a policy of charity.
It is not merely a budgetary or fiscal transfer from one country to another.
The figures which I have, and which are at your disposal, do not prove that everything is perfect, but this policy has produced results for the four countries involved in cohesion.
These figures prove that this is a useful policy.
We must recognise the importance of the fact that the regions are a reality, and that this reality is relevant not only in terms of governance.
This regional reality is also relevant at economic and social level.
We do not have the time to go into detail regarding the proposals of your rapporteurs.
In other words, some of you have criticised the 'sprinkling effect' which is still allowed by this aspect of regional policy, on the basis of regulations or policies defined in Berlin.
I believe that this 'sprinkling effect' should be limited, or even abolished, by targeting, in the context of the new Objective 2, if we retain it, the objectives and priorities of Lisbon.
This is also true as regards the industrial restructuring linked to the market as a whole, which may have a drastic effect on industrial areas.
A third point on which we agree is the substantial strengthening of cooperation, which is also symbolic of the European Union, particularly as regards cross-border work and projects.
All this corresponds to the territorial realities in regions which have structural handicaps which mean that, in those regions, the success or even the implementation of Community policies is more difficult than elsewhere.
Those are the points on which I am able to signal my agreement, in addition, of course, though the time has not yet come to talk about it in detail, to the budgetary ambition which will make this policy a reality, with a credibility threshold which I have personally set at 0.45% of the Community GDP.
Finally, and this is my last word, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have another concern regarding my forthcoming presentation of the third progress report on cohesion: I hope that the debate will get off the ground very quickly, despite the European elections next year and the change in the Commission.
Let us not lose too much time in reaching decisions based on the Commission proposals.
Negotiations with the regions will then be able to start before the end of 2006 and it will be possible to launch the implementation of projects and programmes in each of the regions, particularly in those that are in the greatest difficulty, as soon as the next programming period starts in 2007, and not two years later, which I observed to be the case after Berlin.
The Court ruled that the Member States had acted illegally by negotiating and concluding bilateral agreements independently.
Insofar as the Community and the Member States currently have shared competency regarding air transport, it is up to the Community to take the initiative in international negotiations, and that is normal practice.
Member States have between them probably concluded around 2 000 bilateral agreements.
The Commission cannot take on the responsibility of managing all of them.
It is therefore necessary to find a way of now giving the Member States the authorisation to continue some of their negotiations within an acceptable legal framework.
The other Member States will also be able to identify any common difficulties.
Apart from this system, the proposal also obliges Member States not to discriminate so as to guarantee equal treatment for all the airlines of the Community and avoid a situation in which Member States give preference to their own national airlines.
The Court of Justice has clearly indicated that all the airlines established in a Member State should benefit from fair treatment.
Bearing in mind the special nature of this authorisation, it is essential that the activities of Member States should be subject to systematic control before and after the negotiations, so as to avoid any abuse of the system.
In the past, the Member States continued to conclude bilateral air service agreements, which led to the internal market - which we had already made a reality in 1992 - being annulled in the air transport sector, ultimately reducing and restricting the opportunities and possibilities open to the Member States' airlines.
It is therefore logical - and I fully agree with this - for our finally to have a Community agreement between the European Union and the United States, so that, competing as a European continent, we can use the opportunities that the USA has already been using for years in our Member States.
If Commissioner Barnier said that the Council had already more or less accepted that in the future Member States would have to present the results of their bilateral negotiations for approval, then I think we are a long way from what we have discussed so intensively in the past and have also written in the Constitutional Treaty, namely from the principle of subsidiarity.
That these national agreements obviously have to be in accordance with Community law is, as I see it, not in question, but it is unacceptable for the spontaneity and sovereignty of the Member States to be restricted in such a way that, for each agreement, they not only, as it were, have to report that the negotiations have started, but also present the results and have them approved by the Commission.
If I understood Mr Barnier correctly, he is falling in with our line, because there are two things that we need to consider: we need to implement the ECJ ruling, and underlying that is also that we need to create fair conditions of competition for our European airlines in relation to third countries.
But we also need to bear in mind that the airlines need legal certainty.
The most important agreement is the agreement with the USA.
We want a transatlantic market in air transport with reasonable access rules and reasonable competition rules, and I hope that the Commissioner for transport will brief us very soon in the committee on the extent to which preparations for the negotiations with the USA are already in hand and when negotiations will start.
I therefore hope that we will make speedy progress here.
Allow me to say in closing that, irrespective of this, we also urgently need to talk to Russia, because the Russian conditions for our airlines are fundamentally such that we cannot accept them.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work that he has done on this report.
The basis of the discussion that we have had so far is the importance of these bilateral agreements within the aviation sector.
Quite rightly the issue of the United States is being singled out as probably the more important one.
Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Japan are all waiting for agreements.
So whilst it is important that we stress the importance of the United States agreement, we should remember that this is a report about relations with other countries, not just the United States.
We also have problems with Amendment Nos 6, 7 and 14.
The 'polluter pays' principle is an important one, but it is not the right approach to a technical decision that comes out of a European Court judgement.
Finally, I would like to say on a personal note, that whilst my group will be supporting Amendment No 4, both the British delegation and I have difficulty in supporting it.
The oldest open skies agreement in Europe, the one between the Netherlands and America, is not covered by this decision as it dates back to 1991 and therefore precedes the setting up of the internal market.
I am very worried about Amendment No 13, which allows Member States to disregard a comment from the Commission on bilateral agreements with third countries.
Amendments Nos 2 and 15 permit the monopoly rights of specific airlines to remain unaffected on certain routes.
Furthermore, Amendments Nos 3 and 16 entirely deprive the Commission of the verification procedure which enables it to object to bilateral agreements between the EU Member State and a third country.
Amendment No 5 also gives the Council the power to overrule the Commission by way of the comitology procedure.
Furthermore, Amendments Nos 6 and 7 give Member States the opportunity to allow national interests to play a major role in the conclusion of new bilateral aviation agreements.
In short, I had the feeling that we would have to put up with the decision of the European Court, but it now seems that real, honest, open competition in the European aviation market is not yet so important and that we apparently want to curb this authority.
It has been nearly four years since we completed our report on the single market worldwide challenge in Parliament which favoured general support for a transatlantic common aviation area.
I support the granting of a mandate to the Commission to negotiate an open aviation area with the US, replacing the current bilateral agreements and the ownership restrictions which prevent the industry from developing on a global basis.
I welcome therefore the Commission's comments on the following points.
Firstly I should like to begin by asking the Commissioner for an assurance that current bilateral aviation agreements with third countries will neither be renounced nor frozen for an indefinite period while Community agreements are hammered out.
Thirdly, how will the Commission address the major issue of the massive cash injection to the US industry of USD 11 billion since 11 September and in addition the Fly America and CRAF programmes with a combined value of USD 775 million?
We know from other areas how often this turns out to be extremely difficult to do, particularly when we have to do business with the USA.
I do, however, think that it is important for Parliament and the Member States, but also the airlines, to be able to play a role in this process, but also to be able to exercise their influence in the execution of their new rules.
I think that this point about jobs and the interests of our own airlines must remain firmly on the agenda in the process.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time now that I have spoken in an hour - - a rare thing!
The vote will be at noon today.
China is the EU's third largest trading partner outside Europe, which makes the Chinese market particularly important for European shipping interests.
In the past decade relations with China have developed in a positive way, particularly in respect of the maritime sector, with the majority of Member States signing bilateral agreements with the Chinese.
The key aim of this proposal is to secure an EU-wide agreement to improve the conditions of maritime cargo transport operations concerning China and the EU.
The agreement therefore applies to international maritime cargo transport on logistic services between the ports in China and the Member States and indeed international maritime cargo transport between the ports of the EU.
The same principle shall apply in relation to fees, charges and customs formalities.
The agreement will only act as a substitute for the trade provisions of existing bilateral maritime agreements.
I particularly welcome two important features of this agreement.
However, as the rapporteur, I have some concerns.
This agreement with China also applies to vessels flying the flags of third countries but owned or operated by a shipping company of China or a Member State of the EU.
In other words, we are potentially giving preferential access to flags of convenience.
In the wake of the Erika and Prestige disasters, we must ask the Commission why the agreement seeks to provide the advantages of unrestricted access and non-discriminatory treatment to European or Chinese ship owners who choose to register their ships in third countries.
It is a positive step in building ever-closer relations between Europe and China, an important boost for jobs and an important boost for those of us who want to see a renaissance of Europe's maritime trade.
Ladies and gentlemen, this first agreement between two of the principal actors in the world maritime-transport market is particularly important, as you have reminded us, Mr Watts, not only because of the new economic and commercial outlets which are offered to the undertakings of both parties and the countries of which they are composed, but also because of the clear commitments contained in this agreement with a view to increased maritime cooperation, both at bilateral level and within international organisations such as the IMO or the ILO.
Not only do these commitments relate to the continuation of our efforts in the area of maritime safety: they also provide new opportunities for action in the social field, and in training, as the European mission found when it went to China at the beginning of April to study the training schemes for seafarers and the certification of Chinese sailors.
I should also like to point out that we intend to use this same approach with a view to concluding a maritime agreement with India, another major country in that part of the world.
Mr President, Mr Watts, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the fact that the draft resolution approves the concluding of this agreement, and I hope, on behalf of the Commission, that maritime relations between the European Union and China will be encouraged and successful as a result.
This is all the more important in view of the fact that the People's Republic of China is now already the European Union's third largest trading partner.
You are probably just as well aware as many others among us that we have many agreements and dialogues with China, but that it is the local authorities - and that is what the port authorities are - who sometimes have other ways of doing things.
It is for that reason that it is of quite crucial significance that we should now be concluding an agreement intended to secure non-discriminatory treatment in all Chinese ports for our European shipping companies.
This is particularly the case as regards the non-discriminatory use of port infrastructures and maritime services by European shipping companies in Chinese ports, but it also applies to the case of European shipping companies, who have to pay duties and charges, doing so in the same way as others, without being put at a disadvantage or discriminated against, and as regards customs formalities, which must not handicap our trade and our shipping companies in Chinese ports.
My group supports his work in all its aspects.
China is indeed our third largest trading partner outside Europe, and its importance is growing tremendously fast, and up till now there has not been any agreement like this with China.
It will apply to such areas as maritime cargo transport and logistics.
This agreement means our position and our demands will gain strength.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the report (A5-0152/2003) by Bernard Poignant, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending European Parliament and Council Directive 2001/25/EC on the minimum level of training of seafarers (COM(2003) 1 - C5-0006/2003 - 2003/0001(COD)).
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we are debating recommends establishing a European quality system for third country seafarers with certificates of competency issued outside the Community working on Community ships.
The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that foreign crews working on ships sailing under the flag of a Member State of the Union have been trained and certified in all cases in accordance with international requirements.
The proposal is particularly important if examined in the light of the maritime disasters involving the Erika and the Prestige.
The human factor is a very serious aspect of safety at sea; at the same time, however, it safeguards the marine environment.
Allow me to comment briefly on the main elements of the proposal.
First, the proposal introduces a harmonised European system for recognising at Community level third country maritime training and certification systems which meet all the requirements of the S?CW Convention, the Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for seafarers.
My second point concerns the provision of an efficient procedure for direct action as regards changes to the training and certification system of third countries.
More importantly, the proposal makes provision for the tactic of re-evaluating all recognised countries every five years.
This new legislative practice will improve the quality and efficiency of the system for recognising seafarers' certificates under a single Community system.
The Ministers for Transport unanimously reached political agreement on this proposal in March.
The examination on the part of the Council allowed us to introduce certain amendments which improve our initial proposal.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is the essence of our proposal, the primary concern of which is to ensure that third country crews are professionally competent. . (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, we have to look at this text again in the context of all the rules concerning maritime safety.
I can give you some figures here: the European Union has 120 000 sailors, including sailors of non-Community origin, whose numbers rose from 29 000 in 1983 to 34 500 in 2001.
It is therefore a matter of legitimate concern to ensure that their training is the best possible and that it complies fully with the international convention known as the STCW Code, which is intended to safeguard human life at sea and to improve the protection of the marine environment, as well as to take action against vessels which do not comply with standards and rules on social dumping.
In short, it is an example of the kind of rules that can be applied to globalisation.
The text is concerned with two points.
The first of these simplifies things with regard to the recognition of the training of sailors from third countries.
The report is favourable towards this line, which I can sum up as follows: the initiative used to come from the Member States, whereas from now on it will come from the Commission.
The second point is concerned with bringing the text into line with the language requirements of the STCW Convention.
The competent committee and the committee whose opinion was sought, and which is involved in the drafting of the report, want things to proceed rapidly, rather like what happened in the case of the abolition of single-hulled vessels.
In Amendments Nos 3, 12, 15 and 17, Parliament had proposed the recognition of individual training institutes.
The Commission told us that it was impossible to inspect them individually, quoting as an example the Philippines, where there are perhaps as many as a hundred.
Amendment No 10 poses a problem for Member States regarding continuing training, to the extent that such training has to be funded by the sailors' own states and not by the European Union.
On the other hand, our committee does not wish to drop Amendments Nos 1 and 2 which are concerned with the upgrading of the occupation of seafarer.
As far as Amendment No 23 is concerned, which refers to an evaluation report to be submitted after five years, I think that you agree with this proposal.
Our committee was also asked to amend the time limit for the transposition of the legislative provisions in Member States.
Finally, Amendment No 19 has been amended by the Council, and we are able to accept the new version.
I would stress, and the reasons for this have already been emphasised, the importance of being able to recognise the qualifications of seafarers from third countries on the common bases of established qualifications, without fear of fraud; the need to simplify the procedures adopted thus far and turn to account the work of the Commission and the European Maritime Safety Agency, overcoming the difficulties and unilateral aspects of the procedures underway relating to individual certificates of capability.
There is something else, however: we are dealing with the adoption of a proposal for a directive related to the opening up of the market in port services, for example, which is intended to regulate competition opportunities linked to this development too, while rigorously safeguarding the requirements of safety, environmental protection and social protection and, therefore, in this case too, the indispensable requirements of training and professional qualifications for crew members, requirements which must be taken as the basis for authorisation procedures and also for private supply and self-handling measures.
I refer to Amendment No 10, which gives crew members from third countries employed on ships flying the flag of the individual Member States equal conditions of access to qualifications and lifelong training processes.
I believe that we must not waste this opportunity and that we must insist on a solution which I feel to be appropriate, which is that proposed by the Commission.
That is why I support Amendment No 1, as well as Amendment No 4: issued certificates in particular must be made fraud-proof.
Then there is Amendment No 6 to consider: certificates do have to be made out in several languages because this again makes them easier to check and facilitates the work of the authorities.
Regarding Amendment No 7, we should intervene when countries do not do enough to prevent the falsification of these documents and certificates.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
The assessment of training by the European Maritime Safety Agency against the training requirements laid down in the IMO treaty, under which approval is given to the third country in question for five years, is a good thing, as it will improve maritime safety in and around European waters enormously.
Mr President, I hope that all my fellow MEPs are paying attention and listening to what is being said, for it is actually very important.
The certificate must be a guarantor of the fact that the seafarer really has in actual fact undergone practical training.
I shall give an example of the way in which the subject we are discussing might have been significant in my own country.
All steps aimed at improving the quality of crews therefore deserve the support of this Parliament.
My group has also urged that an aspect of equal opportunities in terms of career development on board be included in this proposal.
We hope that an assessment report after the adoption of the amendments in the directive in question will clarify the relationship between crew training and the nature and number of shipping accidents.
Because of the impact of 'cheap' ships' registers in particular, flag countries in the European Community have revised their package of conditions.
Coordinating the recognition of training and the associated certificates of competency centrally is a step in the right direction.
This should be properly taken into account when recognising certificates of competency from a third country.
Not only the increasing number, in recent years, of shipwrecks caused by human error, but also the increasing numbers of fatal collisions and of failures to report accidents, reveal both serious shortcomings in crew training and the absence of the basic culture of the very highest level of solidarity between seafarers.
At the present time, our fishermen carry out their work in constant fear of a collision with a merchant vessel.
We are also finding, and I am thinking in particular of the case of the 'Cistude', a French fishing vessel ripped apart exactly one year ago by the Norwegian cargo vessel the 'Bow Eagle', that the families of victims of accidents at sea are experiencing difficulties in obtaining compensation for the losses that they have suffered.
Finally, Mr President, why should we want to deprive Member States of the right to withdraw recognitions when they believe this to be essential for their own safety?
The urgent need to approve this legislation results from profound changes in the travel industry over the last 30 years, and the innumerable exemptions and derogations currently applicable in a sector where profit margins are very slender.
I only hope that the unanimity achieved in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs can also be obtained in the Council. .
The Commission has agreed to forward to Parliament all the information laid down in the interinstitutional agreement that we already have in principle with the Commission.
It is not ideal, but it is suitable to tide us over until the new constitution comes into force, which will introduce a new category of delegated legislation giving us further powers under the terms of the constitution.
It is possible for Parliament to vote to finally reject the text, rather than refer the matter back to committee.
The committee still addressed its demand to the Convention.
Indeed, Parliament has always come out in favour of greater transparency in the work of the various committees, emphasising in particular the need for the agenda and minutes of committee meetings, attendance registers, drafts submitted to committees in relation to implementing measures, provisional timetables and results of votes to be passed on to Parliament.
I therefore wish to express my full support for Parliament's report and congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Torres Marques.
The features of this survey, which includes six new variables and the option of differentiating structural variables, will allow us to understand the labour market better and define future economic and employment policies.
Greater transparency in the exercise of the Commission's implementing powers, as well as proper Parliamentary control, will undoubtedly allow Community intervention measures to be adopted more effectively and appropriately.
The aim of this framework decision is to provide the Member States with common legal provisions in relation to this principle, so as to ensure uniformity in the interpretation and implementation of those provisions.
This principle should, therefore, be applied horizontally across the Member States, so that citizens cannot be tried or prosecuted twice for the same offence.
The European authorities would like Europe to be a bloc in worldwide competition.
When it is in their interests to associate with or sign agreements with non-European companies, and in particular American companies, the opinion of the European institutions will not be able to prevent them from doing so.
Following the referral by the ?U to the European Court and, essentially, the conviction of the eight Member States who have signed 'open skies' type bilateral air service agreements with the USA, the ?U has found a first class opportunity to force the Member States to consent to its intervention and participation in what was hitherto the strictly national matter of negotiating and concluding or renegotiating existing bilateral air service agreements.
In this way, the ?U is literally 'butting into' negotiations between Member States and third countries and this is fostering European integration and the interests of the European aviation monopolies to the detriment of the Member States' capacity to negotiate independently with third countries in accordance with their national interests in order to achieve agreements which are beneficial to them in the field of their aviation relations.
This is demonstrated by the main points of the agreement, which is heavily weighted in favour of the interests of European shipping companies and their shareholders, and the interests of businesses linked to them.
It is important, moreover, to retain the bilateral agreements previously concluded between Member States and the People's Republic of China in all areas not covered by the agreement that is now proposed, as well as to retain such agreements in their entirety wherever their provisions are more favourable.
Once again, however, I have to speak on behalf of many pensioners, who ask me when they will have rules forcing banks to give pensioners more money and to be more willing to give loans to the elderly who, having few years left to live, have trouble obtaining loans because they do not have much time to repay them. . (PT) This important report has earned my support.
I voted for the Mastorakis report, Mr President, because it is genuinely important and commendable for Europe, and therefore for Parliament too, to help the poorest regions to become wealthy regions, which, in turn, will thus be able to help the regions which are currently rich regions but will in the meantime have become poor.
For example, the Highlands and Islands include some of the most isolated islands in Europe with extreme problems of transport because of weather and tidal conditions and the costs involved.
The Highlands is one of the most underpopulated mountain regions in Europe.
I hope that the Commission will consider in detail the proposals presented here, from the special needs of the Union's ultra-peripheral regions (where cohesion policy has already proved a valuable spur to development), to the need to simplify the rules for implementing regional policy (by, for example, reducing the bureaucracy involved in payments), to rationalising aims depending on their actual effectiveness.
The regional inequalities emerging as a tangible result of cohesion policies call for a redefinition of those policies' priorities.
Mr President, I would like to say that my first explanation of vote was a compendious explanation of my two votes.
I am delighted that you carried these reports on regional funds and I need say no more. . (EL) Like my group, I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on structurally disadvantaged regions.
The enlargement of the ?U with 10 new members and the stagnation of the Community budget at the same levels are giving rise to serious concerns about Union action in island regions, mountain regions and regions with a low population density in the Union.
The political principle of 'solidarity' must be fully respected in order to reduce the structural disadvantages of these regions.
The facility to increase funding to disadvantaged regions, depending on the extent of their handicaps, is particularly important.
This has been proved precisely by the ultra-peripheral regions which the report presents as a model for isolated mountain regions.
This depends, not least, on the provision of much more information, a more streamlined, flexible procedure and a more rigorous assessment of the quality of projects and interventions.
In this connection, it should be said that more vocational training means enhanced safety at sea and less shipping accidents.
The Commission, however, cannot agree to the amendments introducing the possibility of withdrawing the recognition of individual maritime training institutes in third countries, namely Amendments Nos 3, 12, 15, 17 and 20.
The Commission is in favour of overall and comprehensive recognition of the systems and procedures of third countries which guarantee the same educational value of individual institutes.
This provision, which has been endorsed by the Council, simply aligns Community legislation with the relevant requirements of the SOLAS Convention, which has applied throughout the world since July 2002.
I believe that, in order to avoid ambiguities during communications between ship and shore, the parties directly involved in the communication should communicate in the language with which they are most familiar.
In addition, I should like to thank Parliament for its very interesting amendments as regards the introduction of a European certificate of conformity for certificates of competency and endorsements and recognition by the Member States, namely Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 6.
In addition to this, I should like in particular to draw your attention to the Council conclusions on improving Community shipping and seafaring professions approved by the Ministers for Transport in Luxembourg this year.
The Council called on the Commission to submit a legislative proposal on the recognition of certificates between Member States.
The Commission will submit a legislative proposal on this matter in the immediate future; consequently, the amendments can be withdrawn because the subject will be specifically covered in the coming year.
I should also like to draw your attention to Amendment No 16 requiring the Member States to inform the Commission and the other Member States before withdrawing any endorsement confirming the recognition of certificates issued by a third country.
The Commission believes that, given the urgency of such situations, the Member States should be given the opportunity to withdraw their endorsement even before informing the other Member States.
Last but not least, I fully agree with Amendments Nos 7 and 13, as amended by the Council, whereby third countries will be reassessed in order to verify if they have taken adequate measures against fraud involving certificates.
Madam President, honourable Members, if this directive is approved at first reading, we shall soon have at our disposal an effective and reliable system for receiving foreign seafarers on our ships.
Madam President, I congratulate the rapporteur and I welcome the Commission proposal for the revision of the current rules concerning recognition of non-EU seafarers.
It is therefore logical and beneficial to establish recognition of training given in third countries.
It is essential that recognition, not only of third countries' systems and procedures, but also of their continued compliance, be, for a substantial initial period of time, strictly monitored at European level, as such recognition will be global in nature.
This is essential to ensure safety, particularly in emergencies.
Maritime safety is a priority and we must do all we can to ensure that human error is kept to a minimum.
The next item is the report (A5-0226/2003) by Mr Lambert, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of social security systems [COM(1998) 779 - C4-0137/1999 - 1998/0360(COD)].
I would remind the European Parliament that, eighteen months ago, a specific action plan promoting mobility was agreed and a number of these important promotional measures concerned the need for coordination and cooperation between social security systems, but not just that.
The question of mobility is directly linked to competitiveness, to job creation and to social cohesion and it essentially forms the precondition to a real European job market.
Thus, the system no longer responds to new developments in the Member States' social security systems or to the new mobility conditions in the European Union.
In other words, this regulation urgently needs to be simplified and updated and this is precisely the aim of the Commission proposal.
Simplification will result in Community legislation which is more comprehensible to the citizens for whose sake it is created.
The proposed regulation will apply not only to workers who move but also to all citizens of the European Union covered by the social security legislation of a Member State.
Freedom of movement cannot only benefit workers; it must benefit all European citizens.
The proposed regulation, and this is the second amendment, aims to broaden the material aspect of the application of coordination rules.
Thus, the social insurance sectors include new forms of benefits, such as early retirement benefits.
The third important amendment proposed by the Commission concerns unemployment benefits for cross-frontier workers.
The Commission proposes that cross-frontier workers should receive benefits from the state in which they last worked.
The basis of the regulation is to provide those people from one Member State living or working in another with the same right to social security provision as a national living in that Member State.
One of the three main issues we are told that advice services deal with is that of people who have resigned from their job in order to move to another country with their partner or spouse and who lose entitlement to unemployment benefits by doing so; hence Amendments Nos 2 and 43 from the committee.
The Council has been working through those proposals since 1999 and Parliament has followed the workings with a view to cooperation where there is progress for people and where it aligns with ECJ rulings.
I have been very grateful for that cooperation with both the Council and the Commission and, of course, for the very supportive cooperation of colleagues within the committee.
We have a mutual desire to see the necessary revision of the regulation within this legislature.
Our committee supports the extension of the scope of Regulation 1408/71.
The majority of the committee deeply regrets that a weak legal base has meant that the extended family definition we wish to see in Amendment No 20 is so problematic.
We look forward to seeing a progressive solution being found in the Council in its response to the European Parliament's vote on the Santini report.
If this persists it is the view of many of us that we shall see cases brought before the European Court concerning the lack of mutual recognition of marital status for same-sex couples.
This means that Amendment No 42, the committee's bridging, and, to some extent, warning amendment, can be replaced by Amendment No 55.
These people have not been able to exercise their freedom of movement because they cannot afford to.
It is a problem that can only increase as some Member States merge their tax and social security payment systems, and where people may find that they are paying twice for a service that they can only receive once.
The amendments concerning Articles 57 and 59 also pick up on the need to deal with potential problems before they affect individuals, and are indeed linked to previous European Parliament decisions.
As I mentioned earlier, the scope of the regulation is limited: it cannot answer all questions relating to frontier workers or access to healthcare, particularly when this is currently dealt with under the Treaties as a set of goods and services rather than universal social service.
We can, however, aim to ensure that the regulation is as clear and comprehensive as possible so that employers cannot side-step their obligations to their employees and ask them, for example, to become self-employed to avoid payment of social security.
The regulation should be a support to free movement, not a barrier, and we hope that our joint work will lead in that direction.
We want to modernise, we want to simplify and we have been working on that for more than 10 years now.
Amendments have been submitted by all groups in Parliament.
What we want is for this regulation to be ready in time for the coming enlargement.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, making the European labour market possible is in fact the goal of all the Member States, and, since 1971, we have also had an instrument for this purpose, that being Regulation No 1408.
That notwithstanding, we have proved that we are capable of coping, shortly before the end of the parliamentary term, not only with enlargement, but also with giving a social policy reform greater depth.
Secondly, there are also qualitative reforms, and this House and the committee have encouraged and emboldened the Commission to formulate these as such.
It involves all these things, because we are of course inviting to Europe not only workers but also their families.
What we, in fact, regard as important is that this definition, when we decide on one, will have no legal significance in terms of the Regulation, and that we will not be enforcing some sort of acceptance of a lifestyle on any Member State.
There will without doubt be more cases in which we will have to get involved, particularly when we are joined by ten new Member States next year, when we will gain experience and perhaps have to make more changes.
It is for this reason that we also support the Commission's idea of flexible action in areas that are left open and also of regulating those matters that have not been sorted out, such as taxation and the occasional possibility of double taxation - which will perhaps happen in the next legislative period.
We all want citizens to be able to really demand justice in the free movement of workers.
Just one look at the statistics shows us that only around 2% of the citizens work in another country.
I am therefore pleased that in its proposal, the European Commission is making every effort to enforce cooperation by the Member States.
The main aim of the report is to ensure that persons moving within the EU do not suffer disadvantages in their social security rights.
For those of us in this Parliament who hope that cultural and human exchanges increase in the context of the free movement of persons, this report really is a step in the right direction.
Although I, together with my group, do support this report, I wish, Commissioner, to underline the paradox between the stated desires and the dangers of adopting measures less comprehensive than those provided by the social security systems in several European countries.
And yet, the principles and aims underpinning the creation of social security systems in Europe still apply, in the context of developing a European social model that has proved itself by enabling growth and improved living standards for decades.
I would add that these aims are all the more necessary given the increase in levels of precarity and poverty in Europe today.
According to a recent Eurostat study, 15% of the Union's inhabitants are at risk of poverty and social exclusion.
If you take away all social transfers, this figure rises to 24% and the situation is in danger of worsening.
The question facing us in Europe today goes far beyond establishing coordination, even though this is clearly crucial.
Madam President, first of all, I should like to express my thanks to the Commission.
Only 2% of the European population carries out cross-border work in some form or other.
If this is to be a reality rather than an illusion, then the opportunity to move with social security benefit, with guaranteeing rights of social security, must be seized.
Over the past few years there have been many moves to bring about a resolution to what seemed to be an intractable problem.
I believe that the Council and the Commission text, as well as some of the proposals coming from this House, offer the best possible solution for ensuring that people who are forced or who wish to move across different countries can be secure in the rights to their benefits.
One of the difficulties we have faced over the last number of years with this regulation has been its complexity, not just for the individual who wishes to benefit from it, but also for the authorities that are forced to interpret it.
One of the difficulties I have with some of the amendments being put forward is the question of harmonisation.
We have seen in other areas of work in the European Union that coordination achieves quicker and better results for the individual than merely trying to enforce harmonisation.
The issues raised in Amendment No 38 in particular can best be dealt with in the context of the newly implemented regulation, and we should leave it at that.
Madam President, freedom of movement is one of the four fundamental freedoms set out in our Treaties.
Acquired rights, the policy of simplifying pre-retirement benefits, clarification of sickness benefits, the assets that our colleagues have suggested in the field of handicaps, are the basic building blocks for improving this report, which addresses in particular the social protection of frontier workers and of those who move around within our territory.
When they arrived at the social security office in Paris, they were told they had lost their rights.
We, European politicians and policy makers, often hear the comment that we should not get involved in social security because it is a national issue.
I greatly value the work that the Commission and the Council's working parties have carried out and, needless to say, also our rapporteur, Jean Lambert, who has entered into very extensive consultations with these other bodies.
Secondly, the problems in practice often touch upon other rules and regulations which do not strictly fall within the scope of the Regulation.
On these points too, I expect the Commission - this may be a new Commission - to actually take powerful initiatives in the fullness of time, because it is at least as important to solve these problems as those in the current Regulation.
There are obviously linguistic barriers to taking up work on the other side of the border, but the different ways in which the tax and social security systems are set up are also of very great importance.
What of course distinguishes Denmark is that we fund our social security systems across the border via the general taxation system, while in the rest of the EU more use is made of earmarked social security contributions.
I should not, in a way, mind it if we in Denmark were to obtain reforms whereby future payments were better at reflecting the individual's responsibility for the common good and whereby the costs of social security arrangements were made clearer, that is to say through an increase in the number of earmarked contributions.
Such reforms could also reduce the problems posed by the Danish social security system in relation to other countries' systems.
We are concerned here with simplifying the coordination of the social security arrangements between the Member States, and there is a great need to simplify these very complex rules which, over the years, have become progressively more complex.
Madam President, in order to safeguard the freedom of movement of persons within the European Union, it is essential to safeguard their social security rights.
The fact is that nobody should fall outside the existing social security systems of the European Union, including third-country nationals, though that issue has been dealt with elsewhere.
That is why I am calling for these proposals to be taken into account, and also for all attempts to undermine the social security systems of the Member States be reviewed.
I wish, however, to emphasise the need to research new forms of working together, new forms of institutional cooperation between Member States, when problems in implementing these regulations persist, particularly in cases where there are differences in their implementation.
I believe that this issue of coordination will require ongoing effort and fine-tuning.
Today, coordination is necessary in that responsibility in these fields falls to the Member States.
This does not mean, however, that we should not raise the necessary issue of harmonisation in order to protect the European social model.
Madam President, it goes without saying that the hotchpotch of laws and regulations governing social protection in the various countries of Europe needs to be harmonised.
What governments call pension reform or social security reform is basically large-scale plunder from workers to the benefit of a few wealthy parasites.
Madam President, I also commend the rapporteur, who has approached this complicated and important brief with great conviction and enthusiasm.
I am against Amendment Nos 1, 44 and 45, as they include references to taxation.
I hear what various colleagues have said on this subject and particularly welcome the comments made by the rapporteur herself, that this regulation might not be the right place to address that.
Regulation 1408/71 is about coordinating social security, which derives its legal base from Article 42, which is not concerned with taxation at all.
If these amendments are passed I would hope that the Commission might still reject them.
The rules in Regulation 1408 must provide a balance between encouragement of labour mobility and avoidance of abuse.
The term 'family reason' in the amendment is, in my view, too vague.
EU citizens do and should have the right to seek employment in any Member State.
We are sticking our heads in the sand if we think we can create a European labour market if we do not move ultimately towards harmonisation, both of our social welfare systems and of our tax systems.
It is a nonsense to think that we can go beyond the current 2% of movement to a real movement of labour if we do not get serious about this issue.
I particularly welcome the changes that were made in relation to commuting workers whose lives will be made a lot less stressful as a result of the changes that have been achieved here.
At any rate, I look forward to it being concluded by the time this Parliament ends in June 2004.
For a long time now, thanks to a previous amendment of Regulation 1408, many pensioners who are in financial difficulties due to illness or disability have been unable to draw their pension or illness allowance when they change their country of residence within the 15 Member States of the European Union.
I therefore fear that, although I do not believe this is the wish of the majority of the Parliamentary committee or of Parliament, if these amendments are both adopted, the citizens of any Member State moving within the European Union will continue to be without a pension.
I reserve the right to clarify this point with the rapporteur and I hope that the regulation will be a genuine step forward in the protection of European workers who move within the Community.
Madam President, we have all of us said today that there is a sound basis for revising Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71.
On the other hand, we must also acknowledge that there is probably no regulation that has been more demonised than this one.
Over the years, opponents of the EU in my own, and other, countries have used it to give people the impression that our social security would be harmonised, that we should be forced to change our social security systems or even that our national pension schemes would be abolished.
I must of course deplore the fact that these people have not appeared in the House today to engage in this debate.
Neither practical experience nor calculations show that there would be hordes of people suddenly wanting to migrate.
On the other hand, I also think it important for us to understand that, if unintended consequences arise - if, for example, too many contributions leave the country or if social security arrangements are shamelessly exploited - then we should definitely not look passively on but take action straight away.
This is emphasised by Amendments Nos 10 and 52, in which we say that our countries can establish bilateral contacts - of the kind with which we are already familiar - and that we must talk to each other if someone runs into difficulties.
I think that is very important.
The free movement of persons differs from the other principles referred to in that it may be restricted, prevented or subject to conditions if the right to social security of persons moving within the European Union are not respected.
Its main aim is to ensure that workers moving within European Union territory do not suffer disadvantages in their social security rights.
Over the years, various amendments have been made to this regulation that have made it extremely complex and some very positive developments have taken place in the social security systems of the various Member States, including my own.
The list of types of social security covered by coordination has also been extended and measures are set out for solving the problem of double taxation.
As regards one or two comments on Article 3 and the scope of the regulation, if they are references to the issues about refugees and stateless people, then they are already included in the current regulation.
A British woman who moved from the UK in order to follow her husband in his work as a member of the armed forces discovered that she fell between two stools in terms of her entitlement to unemployment benefit.
If she had known how to work the system better in terms of nuancing it, she would not have been caught by resigning four days before moving.
Therefore, that particular issue is there because it affects a large number of people.
I would like to thank colleagues for a very focused and informed debate.
They really have had to work hard, not only in terms of the complexity of the file, but also as regards the problems surrounding unanimity and the huge differences which exist from Member State to Member State.
The position of the Commission on the various amendments is as follows: The Commission can accept in full Amendment Nos 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 39, 41, as well as Amendment Nos 46, 47, 48, 50, 51, 52, 53, and 54, which aim either to clarify and to render more precise the Commission's proposal; or, via recitals, to draw attention to certain specific problems which cannot be solved by the rules on coordination of social security schemes; or to incorporate recent case-law of the Court of Justice.
The Commission accepts in part Amendment No 11, which concerns declarations to be made by the Member States about their legislation.
However, the proposed text is too rigid.
Although I understand and agree with the ideas behind Amendment Nos 38 and 40, the Commission cannot accept them because these provisions should figure in the implementing regulation instead.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 42, which would not amount to simplification at all.
The Commission has sympathy for the philosophy behind the amendment.
The same result can, however, be achieved in another way.
This is exactly the objective of Amendment No 55, which the Commission can accept in full.
It was on 30 June 2003 that the Commission and Greenland completed the mid-term review, which is provided for in Article 14 of the protocol.
It provides answers and solutions to the concerns expressed in our communication and in your report.
In July of this year, for the first time in the history of this agreement, unused quotas were transferred to other Member States that did not have them.
Thirdly, Mrs Miguélez Ramos, your report calls for the introduction of licence fees.
These changes have been made in dialogue with the authorities in Greenland and in accordance with the principles of the new partnership and fisheries agreement.
I believe that they make the agreement with Greenland more balanced and more transparent, as the financial compensation now corresponds to the catch possibilities actually used, and as reform of Greenland's fisheries policies is supported.
So let me repeat that today's arrangement applies to 2003 and constitutes no kind of guarantee to other Member States that they will receive quotas that were - to take an example - formerly Germany's, as Germany will in future be backing a fleet that will fish around Greenland.
Moving from specific cases and solutions to common ownership of fishing resources under a supposed Community law is, however, no longer acceptable.
In the ten-year period that we feel must now be started in order to ensure that the European institutions discuss the status of the 'Western waters', a thorough review must be conducted of the issue of access to waters, European legislation must be adapted to the broad principles of International Maritime Law and the best ways of safeguarding sustainable fisheries in the Atlantic must be studied.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Greenland agreement differs from the other fisheries agreements that the EU has entered into with third countries because it secures the EU access to fisheries resources via financial compensation and offers of market access for Greenland products.
Nor shall I conceal the fact that, for me as a Danish parliamentarian, Greenland and the fisheries protocol with Greenland are of quite special importance.
The financial compensation amounts to EUR 900 per capita in Greenland and gives the EU access to Greenland fisheries products, which constitute more than 90% of Greenland's total exports.
The fourth protocol proposes that, upon expiry of the protocol, under-utilised fishing possibilities might be used up by countries other than those that derive direct benefit from the agreement in accordance with the principle of relative stability.
There is no doubt that the EU's fisheries agreements with third countries are now a significant part of the common fisheries policy.
In the Commission's press release in June it noted that these two aspects have been separated.
Whilst this is a welcome change in the way in which the Commission looks at fisheries agreements, it should take the same approach with the ACP agreements.
The Commission says that this is too difficult for all sorts of reasons, though it was one of the focal points in the recent partnership agreement discussion paper which the Commission produced.
We want to see this approach taken in the ACP agreements as well.
If it is possible for Greenland, then it should also be possible for the ACP countries.
Moreover, this is something we should all be pleased about for the sake of the interests of the European Union and all its Member States, naturally, and also in the interests of Greenland.
In the third part of the common policies, in the section dealing with agriculture and fisheries, fish are called agricultural products, and no reference at all is made to the CFP.
I support the report precisely because it represents a step in the right direction, calling for the fishing countries, fleets and companies unfairly excluded both by the incorrect application of the principle of relative stability, and by the current protocol to be given the opportunity of fishing in Greenland's waters.
She has highlighted some vitally important issues, not least the discrepancy between what we pay to Greenland every year - EUR 42.8 million - and what we get in return - fishing rights worth EUR 28 million.
However, I support the rapporteur when she insists that those non-fisheries-related aspects of relations between the EU and Greenland have to be financed under heading 4 of the financial perspective or through the European Development Fund.
Mr President, I am sorry to sound a note of disharmony in this debate, but this report needs to be taken in two respects.
Very often it leads to the European Union exploiting third countries' waters and means that fishermen in these third countries are driven out of business and the whole thing is being brought into disrepute.
I also want to thank the Commissioner for having tidied the whole matter up and made what was certainly an unacceptable situation a bit more acceptable in these renegotiations.
It was subsequently that the European Union extended it to 200 miles.
We could have had a decent common fisheries policy without taking fish into common ownership.
It would have benefited from the structural funds, amongst other things.
At the very best, structural funds have only given EUR 300 per capita to any state in this Union - that was in Ireland.
The debate on the Ojeda Sanz report will therefore take place this evening at 9 p.m.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the Commission communication on the preparations for the 5th WTO Ministerial Conference in Cancún.
What is also important, though, is that we are seeking to better involve developing countries in the world trade system, in order that they may benefit from the opening up of commerce and enjoy more of the benefits of globalisation, the harmful effects of which - and these do, emphatically, exist - will at the same time be alleviated.
If our answer is to be in the affirmative, we will, in Cancún, have to be able to point to the completion of 50% of the negotiations across the board.
The fact is that these are not negotiations in which subjects are dealt with one after the other, with one being agreed on before moving on to the next; rather, these are wide-ranging negotiations on some twenty subjects which can be said to represent a balance between points that opposing sides wish either to defend or to attack.
The President of the General Council of the World Trade Organisation, the ambassador who chairs what is termed the WTO's General Council in Geneva, has put on the table a draft final statement which will serve as the basis on which the negotiators at ministerial level meeting in Cancún will work.
Commissioner Fischler and I have already said on many occasions that we are not enthusiastic about this draft.
We see various points in the draft statement as being seriously problematic, but it is a good thing that it actually exists and is clearly set out.
Its mandate sets limits to what we can accept, and, as is customary, we will give you an account of the progress of the debates, as things happen and on the spot.
Commissioner Fischler and I will therefore take this mandate as the basis for what we do.
This agreement shows that the World Trade Organisation is capable of responding to the needs of developing countries.
To sum up, although this agreement is only a small part of the enormous problem of poorer countries' access to medicines, it nonetheless marks a forward step, and, with you as my witnesses, I welcome it on behalf of the EU.
Our problem is, however, that there are still many technical barriers to trade, particularly for our European structure of small and medium-sized enterprises, in which two thirds of Europe's workers are employed.
Within that mandate are included the Singapore issues and, in particular, investment.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am among those who believe it is extremely important for us to involve the developing countries in trade and for us to open up our markets.
Not all developing countries are the same, however.
According to your rhetoric, Commissioner, these negotiations were supposed to be heralding a development round which prioritises the concerns of developing countries.
You like to portray the EU as a supporter and advocate of developing countries and yet the EU is now perceived as bullying these countries into a new set of issues on investment and competition, in spite of the fact that the vast majority of them have already categorically said that they do not want negotiations in these areas.
If you are serious about this new round genuinely being a development round and if you genuinely want the EU to be seen as a supporter of developing countries, will you ask the Council to withdraw the demands on these issues?
Mr President, thank you, Commissioner, for your presentation.
I know that this is not part of the mandate, but I nonetheless think it worth reflecting upon now that we are interested in obtaining equal trading conditions in this area too.
I am thinking, for example, of Thailand where refugees from Burma work in prison-like conditions for virtually no money and where the trade goes directly to Europe.
Mr President, I shall take these questions one by one and in short order.
To say that is to make in an elegant way the point that it is not just the big multinationals that have an interest in the multilateral trade system making balanced progress.
We would also welcome the extension of a number of arrangements protecting geographical descriptions for wines and spirits to cover also other agricultural and food products.
Mrs McNally reiterated the Group of the Party of European Socialists' position on investment.
How do we reconcile our desire for the WTO to focus on a multilateral accord on a number of principles governing investment, and our aspirations in terms of development?
For a start, we see investment as an important factor in development, believing that a number of simple basic rules on such things as transparency and the predictability of investment schemes, would make an important contribution to investment; secondly, we are prepared to take on board in these negotiations certain of the developing countries' concerns, which have been expressed from time to time and which boil down to the view that such rules would diminish their political sovereignty.
That is what we did in 1992, 1999, and 2003, and it is right to give Commissioner Fischler, who is sitting beside me this evening, the credit for the efforts made on these various occasions, when we adapted our common agricultural policy to international trade, for the particular benefit of developing countries.
As regards public health, the World Trade Organisation has just decided in favour of access to generic medicines.
This was among our negotiating objectives in Doha.
Mr President, I would also briefly like to welcome the Commissioners and raise an issue that will occupy centre-stage throughout the debate, particularly but not exclusively with regard to agriculture.
The European Union has pursued the right policy, which is to attempt to distinguish between the poorest countries, the so-called 'least developed' countries and the developing countries because there are enormous differences between these nations.
India, Indonesia and Malaysia, for example, have nothing in common with the problems facing Mozambique or Burkina Faso.
The other practical question concerns the blue box.
I am interested to know whether this line of thinking is currently on the agenda or plays a part in our negotiators' thinking.
Commissioner, one can understand why French farmers are worried in the aftermath of the reform of the CAP.
Commissioner, how do you see the agricultural negotiations develop in the WTO?
Given that the situation of individual developing countries varies greatly, we must adopt a different approach for each of the countries we are concerned with.
In short, on this point, the situation is perfectly clear.
Experience bears out that, when necessary and generally for our own reasons, we know how to decide on reforms that give us a certain margin of manoeuvre in negotiations.
I would now like to turn to the agreement between the United States and the European Union, or, to be more precise, the interim framework agreement we negotiated this summer.
Part I Question No 33 by Piia-Noora Kauppi (H-0483/03): Subject: Commission preparing to abolish visa requirement for Russian citizens?
On the same issue, the European Union-Russia Summit in St Petersburg in May 2003, which I attended, agreed to examine the conditions for visa-free travel between the European Union and Russia.
The Commission, in close consultation with Member States, is considering how best to launch these discussions with Russia in the framework of the EU-Russia Partnership and Cooperation Agreement.
Mr President, this answer is certainly gratifying.
We should not try to bypass them, nor should we try to bounce ourselves into decisions which are of considerable concern to all the Member States, and to some Member States in particular.
Question No 34 by Manuel Medina Ortega (H-0440/03): Subject: Operation Ulysses Can the Commission provide information on the success of Operation Ulysses in curbing illegal immigration in the western Mediterranean and the Atlantic? .
The Council adopted a comprehensive plan comprising, among other measures, joint operations to be carried out by the Member States.
In June 2003 the European Council of Thessaloniki confirmed this priority and carried out a first assessment of the results achieved so far, while setting new priorities.
This is a first attempt to pool the efforts of the Member States in addressing the tragic situation of migration flows by sea and in attempting to put and end to, or at least diminish, the risk of the kinds of tragic accidents that regularly occur on our seas as a result of the criminal actions of smugglers and traffickers.
The Commission did not take part in planning or managing the various off-shore operations, but - via the Argo Programme - we co-financed these external border management operations to the tune of EUR 670 000.
In other words, to what extent the second project can produce that result because it appears that the total flow is always the same: if one side is closed off, immigration is diverted towards the other. .
Our proposal is to create three permanent control centres for our southern maritime border.
Meanwhile, we need to learn from both successful and less successful joint operations, in order to incorporate this knowledge in the project that we are going to present to the Council.
The August report highlights that while Iran has demonstrated an increased degree of cooperation, this cooperation was at times slow in coming and some of the information contradicted what had previously been provided.
This report will be analysed by the IAEA board of directors at a meeting in the week commencing 8 September 2003.
It is also likely that European foreign ministers will discuss this matter at the Gymnich meeting in Italy this weekend.
The Commission has called for full transparency from Iran on this issue and has consistently stated that the issue of weapons of mass destruction constitutes one of the major concerns in relations between the European Union and Iran.
Through contacts at ministerial and official level, the Commission has asked Iran to proceed to a prompt signature and ratification of the additional protocol and to cooperate fully and in a transparent manner with the IAEA.
Added to this will be more than 200 hm 3 of desalinated water.
In total, the increase in agricultural water supply under the plan would be well in excess of 1000 hm 3 per year.
The Commission estimates that the increase in water resources will have only a very slight effect on the extent of the agricultural products supported by Community agricultural funding.
So, were the invisible balance of Mediterranean agriculture to be affected by the Spanish plans, such a development would not be supported by the Community, as increases in production do not automatically entail an increase in Community support.
I can therefore only ask you to pay particular attention to this factor, not least in that, according to the most recent news we have received, in addition to the increase in water supply under the National Hydrological Plan, there are plans for a series of desalination plants which will further increase - according to certain estimates of as much as 400 cubic hectometres per year - the water production capacity in this area of Spain.
If I have understood you correctly, you have said that there is no data on how it is going to affect prices, but there are estimates.
The whole project must be handled subject to the existing framework conditions under the laws on support grants.
Question No 37 by María Izquierdo Rojo (H-0444/03): Subject: New reform of the CAP and highly disadvantaged (Objective 1) areas of the EU The Presidency's 26 June 2003 undertaking regarding the new reform of the CAP contains only a timid, rhetorical reference to disadvantaged regions and cohesion within the EU.
As you know, the Community can, in these Objective 1 areas, do such things as grant investment programmes higher cofinancing rates.
There are also, in addition, quite specific conditions for what we term the outermost regions.
Let me start by establishing, in the context of reform, that it will continue to be for the Member States to decide what value and priority they attach to the measures for the less-favoured areas under the rural development programmes.
It is also the Member States who decide how much by way of structural funds they want to spend in the Objective 1 regions under the Guarantee Fund, how much they want to allocate to the Social Fund and how much to the Regional Fund.
Commissioner, the reform of the CAP should be carried out above all in situ, in the countryside, and not just on paper.
In Andalusia this will mean more than EUR 1 000 million.
The reform stands.
Commissioner, the English translation of the question refers not to 'less-favoured agricultural areas' but to 'highly depressed agricultural areas'.
A one-word answer will suffice. . (DE) Mr President, Mr Bushill-Matthews, let me first make it clear that 'Objective 1 areas' is in parentheses, so this is not just about areas that are generally in decline, although the question made specific reference to Objective 1.
Under your reforms you will break the link between production and subsidy.
The development project CDI-Bwamanda, for its part, states that local agriculture has to contend with far too high general costs.
The Belgian magistracy has dispatched an investigating committee to the Democratic Republic of Congo.
On the other hand, the Commission is currently allocating significant resources to the development of local agriculture in the DRC.
An agricultural support project worth EUR 12 million is awaiting approval.
The food aid supplied by the Commission amounts to nearly EUR 5 million and consists, inter alia, of amounts made available to the NGO, CDI-Bwamanda, to purchase maize from local producers at the Kinshasa market price.
Furthermore, the Commission's intervention, via this NGO, will help avoid a situation where food aid produced outside the country weakens an agricultural sector already hard-hit by the country's political conditions, which are having huge repercussions on production.
I think we all share the Commissioner's view that reinforcing local agricultural markets in any developing country is, of course, what matters most.
Question No 43 by Francisca Sauquillo Pérez del Arco (H-0452/03): Subject: Murder of the Spanish citizen Ana Isabel Sánchez Torralba in Equatorial Guinea The Spanish voluntary worker Ana Isabel Sánchez Torralba has died in Equatorial Guinea as a consequence of gunshots fired by members of the armed forces at the coach in which she was travelling to Aconibe in order to work with Misioneras Escolapias.
The young soldier responsible was acting against the orders of his superior and is now in prison, pending trial for murder.
Today I have found out that a council of war sentenced the person who killed this aid worker to thirty years in prison and has awarded compensation of EUR 40 000 to the family of the victim.
For developing countries, the CDM should be a good vehicle for the transfer of clean and modern technologies, which will contribute to their development efforts.
Secondly, even though the certified emission reductions that will be generated by a CDM project will have an additional value, that value may not be 'reportable' as official development assistance according to the reporting rules of the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD.
The Commission is supportive of the opportunities that CDM may bring in terms of technology transfer, but is aware that not all developing countries will be equally interesting to the business sector in terms of investments.
The communication on climate change in the context of development cooperation also explores the possibility of funding CDM projects in the category of least-developed countries.
As regards guiding Member States towards a common approach on CDM, we hope that the discussions in Council on the Commission's communication will lead to agreement on an EU action plan, including actions related to CDM activities.
I invite the European Parliament also to give its opinion on the communication.
Assistance for the CDM activities included in the action plan may be funded from geographical budget lines on request from countries, and from the research budget.
Mr President, I wish to thank the Commissioner for his answer.
I would like to say that it is nevertheless true that certain kinds of markets and opportunities are opening up here for development cooperation organisations.
I would therefore like to ask whether the Commission has any intention of marketing this opportunity and this idea to development cooperation organisations, for example, by training them to become CDM project coordinators.
If business can identify something that is interesting for it and if governments in developing countries can see this as being in their interests also, that is when we should urge them to meet.
Question No 50 by Alexander de Roo (H-0431/03): Subject: Spain's National Hydrological Plan (NHP) and conservation of the lower Júcar river The plans for the river Ebro in Spain's National Hydrological Plan (NHP) have aroused major controversy.
Finally, the Júcar river basin has been identified by the Spanish authorities as a pilot river basin under the common implementation strategy associated with the water framework directive.
I should like to thank the Commissioner for her reply.
The report of the European Investment Bank on this Júcar-project is not public.
When it comes to funding, you know that the Commission has received a proposal for the funding of this transfer through the structural funds, but it has not yet finalised its position regarding this project.
The Spanish authorities have been asked to clarify whether the Júcar-Vinalopó transfer is dependent upon the Ebro transfer proceeding, or whether it is an entirely independent project.
Question No 51 by Chris Davies (H-0441/03): Subject: Ecological flows of the Ebro river and the Water Framework Directive What is the Commission's current view of the scientific and political debate in Spain over the estimates of the minimum ecological flow of the Ebro river to its delta after the Ebro transfer?
The Commission considers the question of the appropriate flow regime for the lower Ebro river and the Ebro delta to be a critical issue in relation to the proposed Ebro transfer.
This is one of the two issues that the Commission has proposed to address in a technical meeting with the Spanish authorities and selected organisations, which is scheduled to take place in mid-October 2003.
In practice that answer was very satisfactory.
Question No 52 by Camilo Nogueira Román (H-0434/03): Subject: Global costs of repairing the environmental damage caused by the wreck of the 'Prestige' In view of the extent of the 'Prestige' disaster and its impact on several Member States, will the Commission carry out a study of the costs of restoring the status quo ante and making good the long-term environmental and associated socio-economic damage caused by the wreck of the vessel off the Galician coast? .
The honourable Member would agree that the Commission addressed in a speedy and efficient way all consequences of the Prestige accident.
The Commission would remind the honourable Member that EUR 30 000 were made available on 20 December 2002 to the Spanish fisheries, shellfish and aquaculture industries affected by the oil spill, and that EUR 8.6 million were mobilised under the solidarity fund on 16 July 2003.
I therefore put the question to you once again: is the Commission going to remain passive or is it going to take the bull by the horns once and for all and shoulder its responsibilities in order to solve this very real problem and to impose some order on the unregulated traffic that plies our seas? .
I offered the Spanish authorities funding or co-funding for an environmental impact study.
We have been in active contact with the Spanish authorities, but we cannot force ourselves upon the Spanish Government or people.
I also hope it is considering our offer to make the environmental impact study I mentioned, because this is for the longer term and would be very useful in preventing such accidents from happening again.
Our civil protection unit was also activated immediately.
According to this information, the limit values for PM10, as well as for NO2, plus the margin of tolerance, have been exceeded at several stations in Athens.
For NO2 the directives also set an alert threshold which is surpassed when concentrations exceed 400 micrograms per cubic metre over three consecutive hours.
The Commission has also received findings from a research programme indicating an increase of mortality in cities where high PM10 concentrations are accompanied by high NO2 levels and a warm climate.
However, there is no doubt that unfavourable climatic conditions are always an additional threat to human health.
Member States are obliged to ensure that up-to-date information on ambient concentration of air pollutants, such as NO2 or PM10, is routinely made available to the public.
That is why I announced that we are willing to look into the type of monitoring, reporting and measuring that is necessary in Greece in order to fulfil the requirements in our directives.
The present quality of the data is acceptable to the Commission.
The Commission has been informed that all landowners have had the possibility to see the proposals and to lodge complaints against them before Finland officially submitted the proposals to the Commission.
The directive does not establish any requirements for consultation at the national level and thus, in respect of the principle of subsidiarity, it has been for individual Member States to exercise their responsibilities, taking account of national laws and procedures.
Commissioner, I appreciate your answer and your effort generally regarding the environment in Europe, but what you say is simply not coherent with everyday facts.
When this was implemented in Finland it was mainly based on old protection schemes, which do not meet directive criteria for Natura 2000 sites.
The honourable Member has raised a very valid question.
I underline, along with my colleagues in Parliament and the Commission, the importance we attach to this mission. .
Mr President, I should like to say thank you to the sign language interpreters.
I am delighted that the UN ad hoc Committee, between 16 and 27 June 2003, decided on a specific convention on disabled people's rights.
I believe only a specific, legally-binding convention will do, rather than any other instrument.
I put in my report a list of rights that should be included in any UN convention.
There are 37 million disabled people in the European Union.
There are 600 million disabled people world-wide.
At EU level there has also been progress: in 1997, for instance, Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam brought forward the employment directive and the Action Programme.
We need all Member States to implement the current employment directive that is due to be implemented this year.
Even if we did get it right at European level, 80% of disabled people come from developing countries.
That is why we need a legally-binding convention covering a whole raft of different rights, including the right to quality of life.
We need to see access to employment because a vast majority of disabled people do not have employment.
That means access to buildings, access to live as independent a life as possible, and access to public transport.
I believe very strongly in equal citizenship, as do most of us here.
We are not just dealing with the European Union.
Even within the EU there are many organisations that would be left out, including the Royal National Institute for the Deaf in the UK, and, more importantly, people with profound learning disabilities and severe mental problems, who quite often need an advocate to speak on their behalf.
It is an issue which horizontally touches all European Union policies.
In particular within the framework of the European Year of Disability, this report sends a clear message to the European Union and to the Member States, making Parliament's commitment known in the clearest of terms.
The first point which I should like to raise is the future UN Convention, which is expected to be a very important document of historic significance.
Your report will be useful and will play an important role for the Commission services during the discussions being held with the Member States, on the one hand, and the UN, on the other hand, on this future Convention.
In particular, I should like to comment on the core political aspect on which we agree, namely an approach based on human, social and political rights.
In addition, the Commission is insisting on an approach based on the social integration of the disabled and has tabled the issue of disability as one of the basic elements in the national action plans drawn up for social integration and combating poverty.
The Commission has requested negotiating instructions due to the fact that part of the Convention concerns the issue of 'non discrimination', which now comes under the jurisdiction of the European Union following the Treaty of Amsterdam.
This memorandum, which is addressed to the representations and services of the European Union, was drafted in close cooperation with non-governmental organisations representing the disabled.
Although it is difficult in the initial stage to call for disability to be incorporated into the central body of development aid policies, this is a clear declaration that disability must be included and dealt with in the policies of every state in all sectors.
My final comment concerns the possible disability directive.
This directive, which really was a big step for Europe and was accepted by all the Member States, has not progressed as we would have expected.
Most countries have not yet presented even a preliminary bill for transposing this directive, even though the final deadline is December 2003.
Despite repeated efforts during discussions in the Employment Councils, my letter to all the ministers and the mobilisation of European and national organisations, it would appear that the Member States have serious difficulties of a political and economic nature.
However, I believe that it is clear from the situation today that it is premature to promote a new directive which would extend the scope of policies beyond the field of employment to all policy sectors overall.
At the same time, however, the Commission has proposed that the Member States examine and decide themselves if Community legislation should be used to combat discrimination on the grounds of disability in sectors other than employment in a report on the application of the directive on equal opportunities.
This will give us a first official reaction on the part of the Member States to this second, important step which, politically, is clearly a step which the European Union needs to take, but which it needs to take at the right time, with important preconditions to success, both at the decision-making level and at the level of practical implementation.
To conclude, the Commission has undertaken to participate actively with the Member States in the negotiations on the United Nations Convention.
An agreement of a binding nature will demonstrate that disabled people face in their daily lives - as we all know - serious generalised problems which relate both to access difficulties and to bureaucracy and the attitudes of their co-citizens.
The creation of a specific convention will be the only way to provide an effective monitoring mechanism for analysing the treatment received by disabled people throughout the world.
Its approval must mark the beginning of an effective and specific process aimed at guaranteeing the full and equitable integration of disabled people throughout the world.
I would just like to insist on certain points which are important, although other Members have mentioned them, and which we in Parliament and in the Group of the Party of European Socialists have been advocating: the existence, in many cases, of multiple discrimination - as a disabled woman or a disabled immigrant - eliminating legal barriers in order to eliminate physical barriers, education - which is very important - in values, which includes non-discrimination against disability in schools.
It happens, in particular, as a result of the ageing of society, but that is not the only cause: consider - and I am quoting a figure relating to Italy - the 24 000 young people who become disabled each year as a result of accidents caused by the frenetic approach to life and social activity today.
Hence the importance of establishing binding international standards seeking to protect the rights of people with disabilities with an appropriate built-in monitoring mechanism.
However, I regret the position adopted thus far by the European Commission, which has not yet provided a timetable for a future horizontal directive on the rights of people with disabilities in Europe and has not given specific or genuine undertakings to incorporate the rights of people with disabilities into its policies.
Mr President, 2003 is indeed the European Year of People with Disabilities.
This UN convention should act to mobilise change across all levels of government: local, national and international, forcing decision-makers to recognise disability rights in a human rights context in a way that has not happened before.
For too long international human rights instruments have failed to recognise disabled people explicitly and UN agencies working in the field of human rights and development cooperation have not recognised the specific factors which exclude and isolate disabled people.
I would like to think that a UN convention would also bring important resources to assist disabled people in their own empowerment and development in decision-making in order that their voice can be heard.
I am pleased tonight that Members on all sides of the House have supported the principle of a legally-binding convention.
Whilst existing human rights treaties apply to persons with disabilities, they do not specifically state that they protect the rights of persons with disabilities, nor is there an international treaty which specifically addresses those rights.
The human rights of disabled people deserve the same level of protection as those of other disadvantaged or vulnerable people such as women, children and ethnic minorities.
Organisations of disabled people are controlled by disabled people and by the parents of disabled people who are able to speak for themselves.
Mrs Lynne says that people with severe learning difficulties cannot represent themselves.
Mr President, it is extremely important that we have a legally-binding convention on the issue of people with disabilities.
Legislation is necessary which not only protects the rights of people with disabilities but also ensures that people with disabilities are provided with support and structures that will allow them to participate on an equal footing in all aspects of life.
We should look at sign language, at Braille, at all these things that are necessary and allow them to be part of the educational curriculum in all the Member States.
Mr Howitt mentioned the Commission and its commitment to bringing forward a directive by the end of the year.
There is going to be a special intergroup which will be meeting with people with disabilities.
Mr President, Commissioner, in the European Year of People with Disabilities, the European Union has the chance to provide a great opportunity for making up for a huge amount of lost time.
Thus, politics has the task of giving the issue due consideration: this is not charity or a work of mercy but recognition of the right to the best life possible.
Where, then, a physical disability goes hand in hand with a state of financial need or even extreme poverty - and that is the most common thing in the world - the situation becomes even more tragic.
We can therefore imagine their quality of life.
The Union for Europe of the Nations Group, on behalf of which I am speaking, is aware that there is still much which can and must be done to address a major issue which affects millions of families in the world, who are waiting for politics and politicians to respond with practical measures to a topical problem which continues to be urgent.
Mr President, 40 million European citizens are affected by some type of disability, but these individuals' full participation in society is not yet a reality because they still suffer prejudice and lack fundamental rights in terms of access to education, to gainful employment, to information and communication, as well as difficulties in access to the built environment and to transport.
Firstly, the international treaties currently in force in the field of human rights do apply to persons with disabilities but none of them contains specific and binding provisions in this area.
Then we have the European Union, which has been relatively active in protecting persons with disabilities, but which adopts measures that are intended only to establish a general framework for equal treatment in employment.
I therefore congratulate the rapporteur, who calls for the adoption of a United Nations convention.
This convention will be able to highlight the serious problems facing disabled persons in their daily lives.
I wish to take this opportunity to recall that the organisations representing disabled persons must participate fully in the drafting of this convention, and in defining and assessing all the measures intended for them.
In this European Year of People with Disabilities, I think the recommendations of our rapporteur will contribute to the current action being taken to ensure all concerned are truly citizens, just as we in this House are.
Mr President, I congratulate my West Midlands colleague on the excellent work she has done as Parliament's rapporteur on this vitally important topic.
The United Nations agreed in 2001 to consider proposals for an international convention to promote and to protect the rights of people with disabilities.
To date there have been six separate UN treaties on human rights.
Specifically, it calls for the abandonment of the medical model, which regards disabled people as a problem, and instead recognises that disabled people have rights that should be enforced.
I call on colleagues from all political parties and groups to vote this report through unanimously.
What is not mentioned, however, is that the problem of disability does not concern a separate group of unlucky people; it concerns all of us, because we are all potentially disabled.
However, what has not yet been fully realised is that this is not just a question of additional recognition of certain extra rights of a group of people.
Allow me at this point to ask a simple question: 2003 has been proclaimed the Year of Disability.
This sort of celebratory proclamation has a practical impact not only when it is confined to raising people's awareness or collating material, but also when provision is made for specific timetables.
I know that Commissioner Diamantopoulou has an increased interest in and is particularly sensitive to an advanced policy for the disabled.
This explains the fact that the Commission, as the rapporteur has pointed out, is avoiding making any such commitment.
I should like, therefore, to ask the Commissioner to convey to the Commission our position that it is not possible for the European Union to reliably exert pressure on the members of the UN to vote for a special convention which will also be binding on developing and poorer countries when the more developed world refuses to set an example in this endeavour.
In all events, the basic line which needs to be adopted is not the recognition of new rights, but the effective application of rights already safeguarded in the international conventions recognised by the UN.
Even in Europe, the ill-treatment of disabled people is often a taboo subject, as is the very subject of disability itself.
It is therefore essential that, in addition to the categories of rights we have established in this report, we establish the right to protection against any form of violence and the right to protection against cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment.
In this regard, I hope the European Commission will be in a position to put to Parliament a proposal for a comprehensive European Union directive on disabled people at some time in the future.
The action we take in relation to disabled people must seek to combat not only violence and ill-treatment, but also the negation and infringement of disabled people's most fundamental rights in their daily lives.
It is an important issue, and one that we are highlighting here in the European Parliament through campaigning for the Convention to become legally binding and to be accompanied by an efficient supervisory system, in common with the other six UN conventions on human rights.
It is also important to emphasise that, if disabled people are given opportunities to live outside institutions, they must be offered sufficient support for doing so successfully.
There are six hundred million disabled people across the world, 80% of whom are in the developing world.
We are here as representatives of states, all of which have failed to implement a directive that they freely entered into not more than two years ago.
By bringing forward a new draft directive greater pressure would be brought to bear on Member States and people in this House to ensure that what is there already will be implemented.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish first of all to join with everyone who has already congratulated Mrs Lynne on her excellent and exhaustive work examining the challenges facing people with disabilities and to congratulate Mrs Cerdeira Morterero on the major contribution made by the opinion she has delivered.
The most important aspect of overcoming this discrimination, furthermore, is the attitude that we all take in the various decisions we face in our daily lives.
As our rapporteur said, it is curious that the Commission should consider a new United Nations convention to be needed to promote and protect the rights and dignity of disabled persons alongside other conventions devoted to specific areas of human rights and yet is not of the view that this principle should also apply to European legislation.
The debate is closed.
Present European Union legislation on discrimination against disabled people only relates to employment.
In your report, you ask the Commission to resume negotiations with the Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea as soon as this year, in order to reach longer-term arrangements concerning our fishing relations with that country.
A new fisheries protocol, to run for five years, is to enter into force on 1 January 2004.
Even before negotiations commenced, we commissioned a study on the ex post-evaluation of the current protocol and to analyse the impact of the new one.
This study produced results in good time for the beginning of negotiations, and so these could provide input into the new protocol.
The previous protocol, which has now been extended, is the eighth in the series since the two parties signed the fisheries agreement in 1983.
This extension includes the same fishing opportunities and the same conditions for 2003.
However, and now that the Commissioner has confirmed that this information will be available soon, we expected this information to be available during this year; because the results of that investigation are the ones which will allow us to verify whether or not the objectives and conditions for the signature of this agreement have been fulfilled.
And one of these conditions is the reduction in the global fishing effort in the waters under Guinean jurisdiction.
This condition is based on the cautionary principle introduced for the first time in the protocol of 2001 and whose aim is to guarantee the recovery of certain fishing grounds within its jurisdictional waters.
My two amendments simply expressed, on the one hand, our dissatisfaction at not having been able to carry out the scheduled evaluation of resources, which justifies this one-year extension and, on the other, our criticism of the fact that this consultation has been communicated to Parliament so late, because it is no longer possible to issue an opinion before the payment of the financial compensation of some EUR 3 million which has already been paid at the end of June.
Furthermore, I consider it particularly useful for this House to be able to obtain more information relating to the implementation of the specific measures to which almost 50% of the financial compensation in this agreement has been directed.
This financial compensation and these measures demonstrate the European Union's interest in guaranteeing, beyond legitimate support for the fishing activities of Community ships, the sustainable development of the fisheries sector of the Republic of Guinea and greater control over the implementation of the measures laid down in the protocol.
I would also like to say that I am pleased that the Commissioner has informed us that the next agreement will be negotiated for five years, because I believe this is the best way to offer ship owners, companies and professionals in the sector a framework for safety and reliability, which will allow them to make investments and rationalise their activities in a more consistent way than they were able to do simply through two-year agreements.
In order to make the necessary planning, it would be more appropriate to have an agreement of five years, even if it contains a mid-term review clause.
Agreements must also serve the Community in terms of establishing strategic alliances within international fora with a view to making effective progress in the fight against illegal fishing, which is the greatest scourge faced by sustainable fishing and the future of fisheries.
We want the Community to help the Guinean authorities responsible for controlling and monitoring fishing activities in order to achieve sustainable exploitation of the fisheries resources of the country, showing respect for the environment and marine resources.
Furthermore, this agreement contributes in turn to European economic and social cohesion, since it benefits fleets from regions highly dependent on fishing, peripheral regions and regions with incomes below the Community average.
Mr President, the Commission has claimed that it is entering a new phase with respect to fisheries agreements and that from now on they are to be called 'partnership agreements'.
Thank you, Mrs McKenna.
Commissioner, I am now going to claim ten seconds for myself.
The debate is closed.
This proposal is a response to and a direct consequence of the recommendation made by the European Parliament in its interim report on the first DAPHNE Programme, in which it calls for violence to continue to be combated beyond 2003.
Parliament's report on the mid-term review of the DAPHNE Programme in 2002 had already presented an opportunity for us to debate some of the initial ideas on a programme that could follow on from the DAPHNE Programme.
We could, therefore, say that this proposal for DAPHNE II is in line with the discussions we held at that time: an increase in financial and human resources and more sharing of information and best practice, amongst other aspects.
The main improvement is doubtless the increase to the programme's budget: EUR 41 million as compared to EUR 20 million.
The need for a larger budget is indeed a concern that the Commission and Parliament share.
Since the time that this proposal was presented to Parliament, the needs associated with the European Union's enlargement have been taken into account with regard to all Commission instruments and, as you can see in the proposal for the 2004 budget, the sum currently earmarked for the DAPHNE II Programme stands at EUR 49.2 million for the period 2004-2008.
The DAPHNE II proposal is clearer than DAPHNE I where this type of activity is concerned.
A four-year programme, it was funded to the tune of EUR 20 million.
My report is concerned with the Commission's proposal for the DAPHNE II Programme, which is to run from 2004 to 2008.
These include the establishment of networks for NGOs across Europe, support for collaboration between NGOs and authorities in the same field, measures to protect the target groups and to prevent violence against those belonging to them, studies, research work aimed at discovering the causes of violence, at preventing it, and at the support of groups at risk and their reintegration into society.
Amendment No 11 is now aimed at linking DAPHNE with other Community programmes and sharing the experience of them with third states.
DAPHNE I's budget made it possible to fund 140 projects.
The thirty-five projects selected in 2001 focussed on the genital mutilation of women, in which third countries were also involved, and the sexual exploitation of children through paedophilia.
We cannot fail to come to the conclusion that funding for DAPHNE II must be increased to EUR 65 million, and my group, the Group of the Party of European Socialists, has supported an amendment to this effect.
Amendment No 39 is intended to set up a helpdesk providing help to women's organisations in the new Member States, which have as yet little experience of European programmes.
I can see that, in its report, the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities has arrived at a budget of EUR 50 million.
I should also like to say how very pleased the Committee on Budgets is that the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities has adopted our proposal that, after 2006, the commitment appropriations for DAPHNE II be dependent upon an agreement with the budgetary authorities.
That applies to violence within the family, but also to, for example, trafficking in women and structural violence against women.
We are responsible for working for the effective combating of violence in the EU.
That is what my committee has supported, and I am pleased that the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities also agrees with this position.
It is therefore very important to take action agreed amongst the Member States because, although it continues to be a private issue, a family issue, it also has repercussions for relations between different countries as a result of the exploitation of women and children by organised mafias who work internationally.
It is also essential that the public institutions participate together with the NGOs, in particular the local institutions, where they can do extremely important work.
We are therefore going to do everything possible to ensure that it is approved before the end of the year and that the DAPHNE Programme can continue as it has until now.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities made huge efforts to combat violence immediately after Peking and as a result of these efforts the DAPHNE Programme was adopted, the extension of which until 2008 is the subject of today's debate.
Of course, this matter would not have received so much publicity in the international press were it not about the daughter of the famous French actor Jean-Louis Trintignant.
We know that Marie Trintignant was battered to death by her French partner, the musician Bertrand Cantat.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is just one detail I deplore in the whole of this report, namely the term 'forced prostitution', used in the justification for Amendment No 1.
I also think that an information campaign directed at our legal bodies is a very good idea.
In the last six months, it has emerged in Sweden that, despite an intensive debate, rape victims are treated in an incredibly insulting way.
That is, however, what happens in the case of women who are raped.
Finally, I would again address the issue of the budget.
We are not only talking about enlargement of the EU, but also about the tasks for the DAPHNE Programmes.
Consequently, the proposed increase in the budget, of which the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities approves, is certainly not a luxury.
The DAPHNE Programme has become a very important advertisement for the added value that the European Union can offer.
There is the risk that this may create a number of inequalities, certainly for third countries, but also for the new Member States.
This will also enhance the quality of the projects submitted.
Mr President, it is true that thousands of women and children are battered every year.
I do not wish to reiterate what my fellow Members have said about the need for appropriate financial arrangements.
Mr President, the establishment of a second phase of the DAPHNE Programme to ensure continuity of the projects approved by the DAPHNE I Programme undoubtedly provides us with an excellent opportunity to talk once again about the instruments available to us for combating violence against women and children.
This is without doubt one of the most serious problems faced both by societies in the less developed countries and by our societies, which we consider to be democratic and to comply with a genuine rule of law.
The DAPHNE Programme has been an essential instrument for trying to combat this violence, but it has been restricted by its budget.
The increase to EUR 65 million proposed by the Group of the Party of European Socialists is therefore much needed.
The mid-term assessment of the DAPHNE Programme has demonstrated the need to continue with the programme.
The DAPHNE Programme is one of those small grains of sand with which the Union's institutions can contribute to relieving the pain, exploitation and abuse that many women and children have to live with within our borders.
It is an achievement because we know very well that the situation in our own countries is not easy.
The legal basis on health is not in line with the social project at stake in combating violence.
The various reports on DAPHNE have already highlighted this, but we have to understand that it is difficult to explain this point in our various countries.
I agree with the proposal by the European Commission on the amount of funding for the programme, which our political group has rounded to EUR 50 million.
In the second stage of the implementation of the DAPHNE Programme, the experience we have acquired must help us so that the actions funded are more qualitative and efficient, complement national policies and are coordinated with national objectives.
My political group also believes that this programme must remain within the framework of the countries of the European Union, in other words that it should not be extended to neighbouring countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Member said that violence kills.
DAPHNE is justifiably a beacon programme that seeks to combat the root causes of violence against the most vulnerable, namely women and children.
The budget only allowed 13% of the projects to be financed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we know that violence against women and children remains an open wound on the everyday lives of our societies.
I therefore support the proposal to increase funding to EUR 65 million that the rapporteur has tabled for this second five-year phase of the programme.
We all agree that violence must be roundly condemned because, as well as constituting a breach of fundamental rights, it has serious consequences for society as a whole and acts as a real barrier to equality between men and women.
Funding of EUR 50 million, which the Commission has already stated it can accept, will enable the DAPHNE II Programme to enter properly into force in January 2004, in the new Member States too.
Up until August 2003, 92 women in Ireland were killed over the previous 92 months: one woman per month on average dies in Ireland as a result of so-called domestic disputes.
It has made a real change to real people's lives in all of the Member States.
Fortunately, this issue has been on the European agenda and also on the agenda of the Member States for some years, but there is still a great deal left to do.
Many organisations active in the fight against violence against women and children have found their way to DAPHNE and thanks to financial support, have managed to do a great deal of good.
DAPHNE I had a budget of EUR 20 million, but that turned out to be insufficient.
Also, with a view to enlargement, more countries will make a bid for the budget.
Agreement has now been reached on 50 million.
The new proposal to increase the budget to 65 million is honourable, but not, in my view, realistic.
Finally, I support the appeal for a European year against violence.
DAPHNE II must succeed in mobilising public awareness.
My second observation is to say that I accept the majority of proposals for amendments tabled by Parliament.
The first concerns the wording of Article 2, which deals with the aims of this programme: I should like to keep a full and open form of wording, which covers all forms of violence and all victims, including women, adolescents and children.
As to the issue of street children, which we acknowledge to be a very significant one, and which has in fact already been accepted as a priority for actions for 2003 and also for years to come, I do not believe that the decision to include only some beneficiaries is the right one.
I also wish to add that, at the moment, 71% of the DAPHNE Committee is made up of women, which means that in this sphere the Commission has implemented the general decision on the composition of committees and of experts that are consulted.
As you all know, we do consult non-governmental organisations closely but institutionalising this system might create a potential source of conflict of interest.
This European database forms part of the operation of the Schengen information system, which contains specific references, likely to be acted on through the national Sirene network, to all those who are sentenced or prosecuted for perpetrating violent acts against women or children.
Thank you, Commissioner Vitorino.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Eurostat has been publishing these accounts since 1964, producing them on the basis of a common methodology and sharing competence with the Member States.
After 39 years of existence during which the economic accounts for agriculture have shown themselves to be an indispensable instrument for controlling and evaluating the common agricultural policy, the Commission believes that the time has come to formalise them and to provide them with a sufficient legal basis.
The Commission justifies this need through the risk of their possible deterioration as a result of budgetary restrictions and the need to use these accounts in view of the coming enlargement.
The issue which causes me some problems at the moment, and which my amendments deal with, relate more to the agricultural aspect of the issue and specifically to the current reform of the common agricultural policy.
Therefore, Commissioner, I believe that once the reform of the CAP is to be implemented, it will be necessary to progressively adapt and update the economic accounts for agriculture, in order to introduce the new values and fundamental elements of the new CAP, so that the economic accounts for agriculture do not become obsolete and inaccurate within a few months.
This proposal for a regulation, submitted by the Commission, is intended to guarantee that the economic accounts for agriculture continue to be defined within the appropriate time limits and are of sufficient quality for all twenty-five Member States of the Union.
The proposed draft regulation simply consolidates, as you have rightly pointed out, the practice which has existed for many years, since for a long time the accounts for agriculture have been established by the Union on the basis of a gentlemen's agreement between the Member States and Eurostat.
The proposed regulation does not therefore mean an additional burden for the Member States, but it simply intends to ensure the continuity of work and extend it to the new member countries of the Union.
I believe we should take pleasure in the fact that the proposed regulation has been well received by Parliament, both in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - which has fundamental responsibility for this issue - and by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in their debates.
Furthermore, the approval of the proposal without amendments by the European Parliament would allow the regulation to be adopted rapidly, before enlargement takes place, with sufficient time to provide the new Member States with a solid legal basis for independent agricultural accounts for the monitoring of the CAP.
If I have understood correctly, the concerns you have stressed relate to three specific issues.
The regulation, according to our interpretation, explicitly proposes and authorises the adaptation of the methodology of the accounts to the different aspects of the reform of the CAP, which is what you are concerned about.
Your second point of concern is perhaps the most important one: to what extent the current accounts reflect that reality of the new agricultural policy which we wish to define by means of other criteria.
It is true that you have made a series of comments, a series of specific proposals for new classifications, new data which I believe is essential we take into account in future reforms, in those changes which will unquestionably take place.
However, this solution would raise a technical problem of some importance.
It is true that in the countries which have currently adopted the euro this type of problem does not arise.
The problem arises for the countries which have not adopted the euro.
This is why, from a technical point of view, we believe it is more reasonable for information to be received in national currency and then once the periods the information relates to have elapsed, and once we know what the average exchange rate of the euro is in relation to the national currency, we can transfer those accounts from the national currency to the euro.
As has already been stated, to date, the economic accounts for agriculture have traditionally been established by the Member States and then supplied to Eurostat in accordance with a common procedure within the framework of a gentlemen's agreement.
In the context of codecision, our main concern must be to establish this legal basis.
Given the state of affairs concerning Eurostat, Commissioner, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight its excellent work in the past.
The debate is closed.
This is due to a wish to avoid situations in which the Court of Justice declares agreements that have been entered into invalid.
