The proposal for a directive we are considering today is undoubtedly an extremely worrying problem; illegal immigration in its two particularly odious forms - on the one hand, the development of networks of smugglers who act for reasons that are far from humanitarian and, on the other, the exploitation of migrants in the trafficking of human beings.
The aim of this proposal is therefore to strengthen the instruments for combating networks, by establishing a residence permit for the victims of action to facilitate illegal immigration or trafficking in human beings with arrangements that encourage them to cooperate with the competent authorities against the perpetrators of the offences in question, but avoiding any type of abuse in the way this mechanism is used.
It is important to point out straightaway that trafficking in human beings and smuggling of human beings form an integral part of our economy today.
At the same time victims of trafficking in human beings are victims of a whole range of abuses and criminal practices.
Trafficking in human beings has now also become the subject matter for committees, with nearly everyone seeming to want to take up a position on it.
In a number of countries soon to become members of the European Union, parents sell their children in the hope of giving them a better future.
The directive requires the Member States to issue a short-term residence permit to victims of smuggling of human beings or of trafficking in human beings who are prepared to cooperate with the competent authorities.
For the purposes of this special directive, the Commission has taken trafficking in human beings and smuggling of human beings together.
First and foremost this means that some of the amendments touched on by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs are unacceptable, in particular, for me, Amendments Nos 7 and 27, for the simple reason that they tear the proposal apart.
At first glance this seems a good idea, simply because we can never do enough for the extremely vulnerable position of minors.
Minors are offered very much more today in all the Member States and it would therefore be a real step back if minors were only accorded such minimal protection and rights.
The proposal for a directive, which provides for short-term residence permits to be issued to victims who cooperate with the competent authorities, is an important step.
It would be unfair to refuse them this right due to the fact that they often only have false identity papers.
We are therefore on the verge of making great progress in Europe in combating trafficking in human beings.
I would, however, draw your attention to Amendments Nos 7 and 27 which refuse the holders of a residence permit the right of access to the labour market, vocational training and education.
This right was laid down in Article 12 of the Commission's proposal.
Mr President, Commissioner, every day, people in Europe whose only desire is to make a future or new life for themselves or their families on our continent are abused and violated.
Their longings are odiously exploited by all kinds of profiteers including those who transport these people to Europe and those who exploit their vulnerability within our own Member States.
Others are exploited in hazardous occupations and are miserably remunerated outside any form of social protection system.
At the same time, a fair and sensitive balance must be struck between supporting the victims and tackling criminal activity - a combination of humanitarianism and the rule of law.
This directive in fact affects a different group of people from those in the UN protocol.
The directive is only concerned with those who can reasonably be regarded as victims and who have experienced harm such as threat to life or assault on their physical integrity.
The Council must consider carefully whether the offence of smuggling of human beings should be included in the directive in this way.
In this connection, my country's legal authorities have already carried out many detailed investigations, especially with regard to the north-east border, which, in an irresponsible move, had its border controls removed a long time ago.
Lastly, I would like to remember the victim of an horrific reverse race murder two years ago: a young Swede killed by racists in Salem, a suburb of Stockholm.
Mr President, I too would like to explain once again why we feel totally unable to vote in favour of this report; it is because the premises it is based upon are totally flawed.
Similarly, we can support the amendments specifying that the victim must be informed in a language they understand or that they can submit a request for asylum as well as the amendments stipulating that the decisions to withdraw or not to renew a residence permit can be appealed against and that the withdrawal of authorisation must have good reason.
We cannot, however, support the proposals that eliminate the granting of social benefits such as access to the labour market, to vocational training and to education.
We are talking about short-term residence permits and these measures will not only have a major economic impact but will above all provide an important incentive for cooperation with police authorities.
The provision of a specific framework that guarantees greater protection for minors, who are particularly vulnerable victims, is of the utmost importance.
Thank you, Commissioner Vitorino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
At this very moment an oil tanker is moored in the port of Gibraltar, the 'Moskowsky Festival', which the Spanish Government, specifically the Spanish navy, expelled last Saturday, sending it more than 400 miles from Galicia.
The document on the Constitution of the European Union, which has been reported by the press, is nothing more than a working document, a feasibility study that Commissioner Barnier, Commissioner Vitorino and I commissioned from a group of legal experts in the Commission, in order to have an initial idea of how a Treaty could be organised.
That requires a responsible and humble approach, and it is with humility that I propose to follow Jean Monnet's intuition in order to meet the great challenges of the future.
To unite all the citizens of Europe, we must create true harmony between the States and between the peoples.
The debate that has taken place in recent months since the Convention opened has already clarified many unclear areas and answered many questions.
On the contrary, people want the Union to be more prominent in foreign policy, in justice and security and in social affairs.
Relations between the main institutions certainly need to be streamlined and clarified, but even the most sceptical have realised that without a strong Community element, Europe would become less effective and less democratic too.
Our contribution to the Convention seeks to respond to these concerns.
In short, it has three objectives: the Union must become more democratic, more effective and clearer.
Our path must lead us to build the world's first true supranational democracy.
We therefore have two proposals for reform.
The President of the Commission should be elected by the European Parliament by at least two-thirds of the votes cast in a secret ballot.
The second innovation concerns the Commission's dual accountability to the European Parliament and the Council.
We propose that both institutions should have the right to pass a motion of censure on the Commission.
This will give the institutional triangle more balance and will strengthen the Commission's position as guarantor of the general interest.
Clearly, this is a particularly delicate and bold proposal, but, in my view, the proposed arrangement divides decision-making power more fairly between the representatives of the national governments and the representatives of the people, that is, between the Council and Parliament.
All European legislation must be put forward by a Commission proposal, adopted by a majority vote in the Council and codecided by the European Parliament.
Its responsibilities are typical of those of all the world's parliaments.
The Union's budget must therefore be adopted by the European Parliament and the Council by a procedure derived from codecision, as I mentioned a moment ago.
If the veto has frequently paralysed decision-making with 15 Member States, just think what could happen with 25 or more.
We therefore propose that the Council should take practically all decisions by a twofold, simple-majority vote, that is, a vote which represents both a majority of the Member States and a majority of the citizens.
The second point concerns the Presidency of the Council, an issue that has caused rivers of ink to flow.
And above all, as Mr Verhofstadt remarked, what would this President do for the other 360 days of the year when the Council is not in session and George Bush is not calling?
The third point concerns our external representation.
As a member of the Commission, though, the Secretary will be jointly accountable along with the other Commissioners before the European Parliament.
The Secretary of the Union will autonomously exercise the Commission's right of initiative in foreign policy in accordance with the Council's guidelines.
The Secretary of the Union for Foreign Affairs will also be responsible for implementing common decisions and, most importantly, the Secretary will be the Union's sole representative for foreign policy in relations with non-Member countries and other international bodies.
The third and final key point of our proposal is simplification and clarity.
We propose that the Commission should have exclusive competence for implementing - I repeat, implementing - European legislation, and, as I said, it will be accountable for this to both Parliament and the Council.
The principle of transparency must also apply to what is known as comitology.
The debate aroused by the Convention in recent months has already widened our horizons.
The national parliaments and governments have believed in it right from the start, and sent major figures to represent them.
The goal of the Convention has become more ambitious.
The Convention that Parliament and I too wanted so keenly is providing our fellow citizens and the whole world with an analysis of all aspects of our institutions.
I am pleased for him personally, but I am also pleased about the case he has been making.
I would also like to add that our group very much supports the Commission as regards the future of the European Union and its institutions.
In that respect, we are totally at one with the Commission.
We want a democratic Europe, and as far as we are concerned a democratic Europe means a representative democracy at EU level.
However, a democratic Europe based on representative democracy also means that we recognise the principle of subsidiarity.
The principle of representative democracy must apply at all four of these levels - local authorities, regions, nations and the European Union.
It is not possible for me to talk very much about the many points of detail in the four minutes I have at my disposal, but I urge us all to consistently be guided by the issue of method when we have individual decisions to make.
One of them is that the President of the Commission should be elected by the European Parliament, something which I believe a large majority of this House advocates.
In any event, we have to take a decisive step towards a common foreign, security and defence policy.
A final point, Mr President of the Commission, is that Parliament asked last month for a proposal to the Convention for a legal basis for the protection of pluralism in the European media.
Mr President of the Commission, I am in agreement with the objectives you mentioned, because this is a matter of making the European Union more democratic, more efficient and more transparent.
I specifically welcome the fact that you highlighted the dual nature of the European Union as a union of Member States and a union of peoples, and I think that it is indeed one of the Convention's jobs to make the European Union the first genuinely supranational democracy in the world, as you just called it.
I support the proposal for the European Parliament to elect the President of the Commission in future, and I also agree with your rejection of the creation of a permanent President of the Council.
The social dimension, which is may be the main issue on which the Convention will founder, scarcely gets a mention.
Unity and democracy are all very well, but being given power is a little more important.
This is a proposal that also makes the Commission Parliament's ally, but I would have liked to have seen more determination to tackle the really important tasks and to respond with a sense of vision, particularly as regards Europe's response to the dangers of globalisation, to the unprecedented intellectual and political challenge of developing a supranational democracy, of taking the separation of powers seriously, of taking the rejection of an intergovernmental Europe seriously, and of making the legislative process more open and giving the public access to all documentation.
The fundamental issue that everyone, including the Commission, has to face is how to maintain an enlarged European Union's ability to pursue its fundamental aims of development and economic and social cohesion and freedom and security for the present and future citizens of its Member States.
Nevertheless, we must acknowledge that, in the Convention, all issues have been discussed openly, frankly and fairly.
The peoples of the current and future Member States demand and deserve this.
We feel that confidence in the Convention is, in fact, growing, because, in addition to the now traditional Community institutions, it also encompasses national institutions, in other words, the governments and the parliaments of the Member States and of the candidate countries.
To this end we need to define this European model in political terms.
We have confidence in the peoples of Europe and therefore believe in a Europe that means greater democracy and not the opposite, which is greater bureaucracy.
We have confidence in subsidiarity, and therefore believe in a Europe that does not seek to retain for itself decisions that could more advantageously be taken by the Member States.
We have confidence in solidarity, and therefore believe in a Europe in which economic and social cohesion also results in the prosperity of the peoples and of all the remote and outermost regions without exception.
We have confidence in peace, stability and security and therefore believe in a Europe that is united but not uniform, which can be mobilised by great causes, and which is governed by values and guided by principles.
The European Parliament and the EU's prime ministers are also agitating to be given more power.
The EU's prime ministers are being given more power and the Commission is being strengthened, as is the European Parliament.
Mr President, the draft institutional reform that the Commission is today presenting to the Convention and to Parliament, and the essence of which at least was communicated to the press two days ago, is clearly breaking new ground in its proposals on the responsibility of the Commission before the Council.
Admittedly, it is said that each government protects its national interest, but their debate makes it possible to go beyond that.
In a world of openness, freedom and democracy, this is unacceptable.
The monopoly of initiative, strengthened by the requirement for unanimity within the Council in order to dismiss the Commission's proposals and by extending the majority needed to accept them, distorts the entire European decision-making process and certainly contributes to the rift perceived between the Union and the citizens.
Either we open up the monopoly of initiative to other players such as the European Parliament and the national parliaments, which possess an undeniable democratic legitimacy, or we maintain it, but then, in return, we are making a right of veto official for each national parliament.
In any case, it seemed that the recent debate within the Convention on the Commission's monopoly of initiative was drawn to a close even before it had started.
Let us hope, Mr President, that the Commission's new document will have the unforeseen effect of re-launching the debate.
In Maastricht we introduced the concept of European citizenship, and we must therefore begin to talk about European citizens as subjects of the European Union.
Ours is a Community system, which is difficult to explain outside these four walls; and it is a system in which the balance between institutions surely does not correspond to the usual notion of the separation of powers which we know in our own Member States.
I know that in the Convention - and this is a good thing - we are following the formula of George Washington, who said for Philadelphia that the Convention can debate everything and propose everything.
But I believe that on this issue, and of course I must read what the Commission is proposing carefully, we must be prudent, because if we interfere with constitutional mechanisms, we may find that there are surprises in store.
I believe we must consider whether it is in the Commission's interest to be elected by the European Parliament and to be able to be dissolved by the Council.
I therefore believe we should give this some consideration.
I believe that by bringing out this text at the same as your declaration, you have not done yourselves a political favour.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, we have been calling for a Commission proposal to solve the institutional problems that exist.
Your paper makes a further interesting and important contribution to the work of the Convention, but it does not provide a total solution for all institutional problems.
This is the issue of the appointment and political responsibility of the Commission.
Adhering to Jean Monnet's vision and the Community method, the Commission is today reinvigorating its ambitious and forward-looking role in European integration with a blueprint that meets our expectations.
The new position of Secretary of the Union for Foreign Affairs would represent a strong Europe, able to set out its position in international bodies through a single representative.
Mr President, you are aware of my personal desire to see faster work and a substantial increase in the quality of our capabilities in the area of defence.
The Commission's demand to withdraw the system of consensual decision-making, or Member States' right of veto, is an attack on the Member States.
The right of veto is the last defence against supranational, unequal systems of decision-making under the Community method.
The Commission is calling for the common foreign and security policy to come under its control, with competence to be transferred from the Member States to the Commission.
Mr Prodi, power wielded by the Commission is not democracy.
One of the great disappointments of the Convention so far has been the tiny attention it has given to those levels of democracy which exist within and below the level of the Member State.
Mr Napoletano has prepared a report today to the Constitutional Affairs Committee of this Parliament.
Now, I believe that there is a fundamental difference between Jean Monnet's work and the proposal before us today.
The issues of the decision-making process, codecision and the extension of qualified majority voting, and the replacement of the Council decision-making process stemming from the Treaty of Nice by the simple dual majority are essential approaches that could lead to improvement.
I do not know if the Commission will get what it is looking for here, because once it has the same relationship with the Council as it has with Parliament in all these areas, the natural alliance between Parliament and the Commission will cease to exist.
If the European Council is to have an almost parliamentary right of control over the Commission, then the President of the Commission should not be a member of the European Council.
The fact that it leaves the issue of the legislative Council so unclear and presents the relationship between the European Council and the Commission in such a way seems to point to a weakening both of the rights of Parliament and of transparency in general.
At the same time we can make effective European policy.
Result: democracy and citizens over against this continent's Sun Kings.
Aux armes democratiques, President Prodi.
Once again President Prodi: aux armes democratiques, Commission et citoyens.
Mr President, the Commission's major contribution to the work of the Convention can only encourage those who believe that Europe needs a Constitutional Treaty before the reunification stage starts.
The new Europe, founded on the principles of solidarity and subsidiarity, must be politically strong and have economic credibility.
The Commission's proposal, outlined yesterday in Le Monde and today in this House, is reminiscent of the French model, with the Commission in the role of Mr Raffarin and the Council in the role of Mr Chirac.
I wonder whether it might be possible to achieve a compromise whereby there would be a single Commission and Council President, who would be put forward by the Council and elected by two-thirds majority vote in Parliament.
President of the Commission, thank you for your contribution to the work of the Convention.
I understand that you are in a negotiating position, but it seems to me that, when we speak of preserving the Community method, and this is obviously what the Commission desires, this method is based on the role of the three points of a triangle, with a necessary balance.
I therefore believe that this is a point that we should examine in greater depth and I think that, in the area of external representation of the euro zone, these proposals could be reproduced.
Mr President, I thank you for calling our fellow Members to order.
I am also pleased that this document is so very much in keeping with Parliament's position and that it is also so much in tune with the Benelux Memorandum that has just come out.
There are good proposals for this in the Convention, that go a little further than what the Commission has proposed.
Consequently, Mr Prodi, you have our full support.
There are many other points which need to be clarified and discussed but we agree that we should not create new, unnecessary institutions and that the decision-making power of the Eurogroup and the Union's financial system should be strengthened.
Mr President, I welcome the Commission's intention to make the EU the first supranational democracy in the world.
In any democracy, the government is elected by parliament, and that is why I also welcome the proposal that here in the EU the Commission and its President should at last be elected by this House and not by the European Council.
We do not want the institutions to be renationalised, what we need is to apply the Community method, and in this paper the Commission and Parliament are on the same track.
Mr President, I will be very brief, not least because we are behind schedule and the European Parliament needs to continue its work with all speed.
The points on which there is dissent are extremely important points which we will have to discuss.
With regard to Amendments Nos 35, 36 and 37, you have said that they have been withdrawn, which is correct, but I have not understood what has happened about the admissibility of Amendments Nos 4 and 17.
I have here a letter from the President saying that Amendments Nos 4 and 17 have been deemed inadmissible. . (ES) What the services have told us is that they were admissible and that they would be voted on.
After the block vote on the committee amendments: Mr President, I know you are in a hurry because we must follow our timetable, but we are reforming the common fisheries policy and we have been waiting 20 years for this reform.
Before the vote on Amendment No 20: Mr President, you told me that Amendment No 4 was inadmissible and then it has been voted on because an agreement had been reached.
He deemed Amendment No 4 inadmissible in its present form.
If the rapporteur agrees to modify it by deleting the reference to the current Commission proposal - a reference which would not be relevant once the legal instrument is adopted - then Amendment No 4 would be acceptable.
I have been in contact with the services and they have told us that this amendment is admissible.
Therefore, all I ask is that the vote be taken a little more slowly, please.
I do so, Mr President, as a Galician in particular, because Galicia is currently experiencing a great tragedy.
Mr President, I would like to move, on behalf my group, in accordance with Rule 37(4) of the Rules of Procedure, that this House should decide whether the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the PPE-DE and PSE groups should be put to the vote before the other resolutions.
As the content of the joint motion for a resolution tabled by these groups is exactly the same as those amendments, only one of the two can be admissible.
I am now informed that the chronological order indicates that we will vote on the joint resolution tabled by the three groups first. (Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) Motion for a resolution (B5-0620/2002) tabled by Diana Wallis and Astrid Thors on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the Statute for Members (Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) Motion for a resolution (B5-0621/2002) tabled by Heidi Anneli Hautala and others on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on the Statute for Members (Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) Motion for a resolution (B5-0622/2002) tabled by Francis Wurtz on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the Statute for Members of the European Parliament (Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) Joint motion for a resolution Mr President, we need to change this amendment so that it better reflects the realities of the Treaty of Nice.
Mr President, I do not wish to reopen a debate which this Parliament has already had but you were elected on a programme for reform of this House.
Powerful elements in the two major groups have blocked that reform and I hope, Mr President, that the Council and the Commission, represented here today, will see the strength of feeling in this House in favour of such reform, greater than it has ever been, and will take that into account.
Mr President, you thought you were right to follow the procedure you adopted.
On behalf of my group, I would like to say that we did not agree with your decision, but I do not want to dwell on that.
Mr President, my group respects the other groups.
In that interim period I intend to work with the rapporteur to see to what extent we can try to mobilise a majority in this House in dialogue with the other institutions to bring closure to this issue in a manner which gives us a satisfactory outcome and a dignified result.
In the case in point, major amendments have not been included on the possibility of registering PDOs and PGIs in Brussels when products have already been registered which, for a different reason - as in the case of a plant variety - are designated by the same geographical term as that requested, which might be the name of a town, for example.
I am therefore going to send a letter to the Italian Permanent Representation in Brussels to call upon Italy to adopt a clear position on this issue in the Council.
For example, with regard to the procedure for cancelling the Community registration of a PDO or a PGI, the report overlooks the fact that sometimes a PDO or a PGI is not only private property; it can also be the property of a particular community or region due to the characteristics of its production or of the raw material used.
In Portugal, this problem has already arisen, in the case of 'Limiano' cheese.
The Bulgarian cheese now has to be sold under an unknown name and is therefore less in demand.
I welcome the Commission proposal to adapt this system, especially as regards continuing to monitor counterfeiting and unlawful imitations, both within the EU and in third countries.
The current inspection mechanism must be effective, and to this end the existing systems and the activities of national and European bodies must be harmonised and the Member States must be given greater responsibility.
This is the most noteworthy feature that, in political terms, marks the difference between this protocol - which is valid for the period 3 August 2002 to 2 August 2004 - and the eight previous ones, in developing the agreement that, as everyone knows, dates back to 1987.
Finally, I wish to underline the importance of increasing the role played by the social partners through the creation of a Tripartite Social Summit and a macro-economic social dialogue, as well as the participation of the candidate countries in implementing the Lisbon Strategy.
This report backs the Commission, which defends the idea of greater coordination in implementing the economic policy and the so-called employment policy of the Member States.
The only 'economic policy' that the European Union and its Member States know, however, consists of constantly favouring the interests of businesses and their owners.
By voting against this report, we are therefore reaffirming our rejection of your capitalist system. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (PT) The Commission communication which serves as the basis for this report follows up the request made at the Spring Council in Barcelona to streamline the relevant policy coordination processes and to improve the implementation of the 'Lisbon strategy'.
Consequently, no guarantees have been made to establish conditions that will ensure that priority is given to employment, to economic and social cohesion and to combating social exclusion, a crucial issue in the fight against the dominance of neo-liberal policies in the European Union.
Whether a callous liberal policy really leaves room for a good environment is, in fact, dubious, but I back the attempt to give more attention to environmental policy than the Commission proposes.
The rapporteur is trying to reconcile the irreconcilable in a somewhat craftier manner.
Having put forward a thorough report, I would like to add that emphasis on airport security should not preclude measures from EU Member States from providing some form of redress for EU citizens who are unfairly searched, detained or harassed at airports without just cause.
My explanation of vote, if anyone can hear me, is that although we achieved a great deal for industry as a whole, and the rapporteur changed her view during the process of the report going through the European Parliament - in other words, she took hearing protection into account and moved towards weekly measurements, which I welcome - the amendment that we voted through in Parliament on its exemption for entertainment and leisure for five years while the Commission did a report on the special nature of the entertainment and leisure business was lost in conciliation.
Noise at work can cause effects such as fatigue, communication difficulties and total hearing loss.
Mr President, on Mr Jové Peres, the EPLP voted differently from the proposed PS line in order to be consistent with the approach taken by the UK Government on fisheries and to reflect our support for the following: to look at fisheries management on the basis that absence of scientific evidence does not mean postponing conservation support for a strong role for regional management councils with decision-making power and access support for extension up to 24 miles, support for 12 miles and support for 50 miles for remote areas, for effective measures to reduce fishing capacity and for a continuation of relative stability.
In this area a great deal of the discussion among us remains bedevilled by different understandings of the legal background, in particular, of the continuing effects of the Spanish and Portuguese Treaty of Accession of 1985.
That does need testing in a legal way and not just by political debate in the Parliament.
As I mentioned yesterday, it does show one of the kinds of areas in which it would be very fruitful if it were the case that regions with legislative power had the right to seize the Court of Justice of questions because, after all, a parliament like the Scottish Parliament, which has legislative responsibility for these matters, should be able to test out the question of the legal basis and so should the Parliament of Galicia, might I add.
As regards abolishing State aid for building new boats and reallocating previously granted funds to alternative activities, I stress the absolute need to see structural aid maintained and even increased since it only represents 0.84% of the Community budget, in order to modernise and make the fleet safer, particularly the small-scale fishing fleet.
In addition, the fishing capacity of the regional fleets is limited, and the fishing methods used in these regions are environment-friendly, in that they are fully compatible with the overriding need to guarantee the conservation of fish stocks.
The main purpose of this research is to do nothing for the time being and delay the finding of a solution.
The recovery plans must seek a balance between the recovery or conservation of fish stocks and measures to limit the impact on the fishing industry.
It is worth pointing out, however, that we have to ensure that the adjustments to the fishing capacity of each Member State should give due weight to the contribution each has already made to the conservation of fish stocks.
Finally and most particularly, I consider the proposal to extend the exclusive zones for the outermost regions to 50 nautical miles to be of the utmost importance, as it puts Article 299 of the Treaty into practice in this field.
Mr President, regarding the Varela report on structural assistance, we rejected the report because it aims to keep the current structure of CFP subsidies.
This report, like many others in the last few months, raises some serious questions about the 'sustainable development' of fishing, about depleted fish stocks and bans on the fishing of this or that species in Community waters, about catch quotas or minimum fish sizes which have to be adhered to by fishermen in order to protect young fish, about fish populations etc.
Of course the authorities announce major decisions, such as prohibiting the use of single-hull vessels ...
Moreover, the abolition of State aid for the modernisation and renewal of the fishing fleet is unacceptable because these programmes do not contribute to over-capacity, or to over-fishing, or to unfair competition between Member States.
On the pretext of maintaining fish stocks, the aim is to end subsidies and limit funding for fleet renewal, thereby accelerating the demise of small and medium-sized enterprises in countries such as Greece, where fisheries are traditionally of both social and economic importance.
What we need is a change in general orientation and approach, which is not in the nature of the capitalist ?U, together with an overall policy based on its interests, the interests of small and medium-sized farming and fishing enterprises, not the interests of big business.
I therefore want to give the rapporteur my unequivocal support.
Regulatory measures are needed to prevent public aid from leading to an increase in fleet capacity.
As the rapporteur has pointed out, one of the aims of any fisheries policy is to control the fleet and ensure it is suited to the available stocks, thus achieving a balance between fleet and stocks and avoiding overcapacity and overexploitation.
I have therefore agreed in general with the rapporteur's positions, which are consistent with the views that I, as a Portuguese and a European, uphold: maintaining aid for fleet renewal and modernisation; setting global reference levels for fleet capacity corresponding to the sum of the targets set in the multiannual guidance programme (MAGP, for 31 December 2002) for all segments; a system for managing fleet additions and deletions to prevent these reference levels from being exceeded; penalties for Member States that do not achieve the MGP targets; maintenance of premiums for permanent cessation of fishing activities, other than scrapping; maintenance of aid for joint enterprises; and maintenance of aid for temporary stoppage.
Mr President, on the second Varela report on the scrapping of fishing vessels, we rejected the report because the number of boats in Europe should match the number of fish available and currently the European fleet is greatly over capacity.
The report suggests that any emergency Community measure would need additional funding up to 2006.
This is not logical because it proposes extra funding for scrapping at the same time as providing subsidies for improving efficiency of the existing vessels or even building new ones.
The Commission also makes a calculation of the budgetary estimates for the financing of these proposals which lacks any logic.
The Varela report is highly critical of the Commission's proposal.
The only data that the Commission presents in this proposal for a regulation establishing an emergency measure for scrapping fishing vessels are just rough figures.
These data on the fishing fleet have been considered unrealistic and, in many cases, wrong by most of the Member States.
No study, analysis or report has been presented, either, on the social and economic impact that will result from the drastic changes to the structural fisheries policy that the Commission wants to introduce.
Furthermore, the Commission then calculates the budgetary requirements needed to finance these proposals in a way that is totally devoid of logic, since it is based on mere assumptions without any basis in reality, as the Commission itself recognises when it points out that these are just likely working hypotheses.
The Member States have already earmarked these funds for other purposes, and so they are unlikely to be willing to accept this reallocation.
A report as clear as this one certainly deserves my vote.
In fact, it is beyond comprehension that the new measures should penalise most those Member States that have already made a large cut-back in their capacity (as is the case of Portugal, which has, in fact, far exceeded the targets set), rather than directly affecting the fleets of those countries that have not achieved the reduction targets set in the operational plan for fisheries (MAGP), which should be the ones to have to bear the necessary cuts.
The European Union leases fishing areas in the territorial waters and economic coastal zones of African countries on behalf of its own fishing fleets, particularly those from Spain and Portugal.
Mr President, with regard to this particular resolution, let me say I am appalled at the opportunist hypocrisy of certain groups and certain individuals in this House.
All MEPs want a fair statute because it is an albatross around our neck and when they play this opportunist politics, it will be seized upon by the press, in my own country and other countries, to lambast Parliament.
Unfortunately, the press ignores the real work of this Parliament, the serious work that it undertakes, be it on foreign policy, be it on the promotion of human rights and democracy and, indeed, on other issues, and they will concentrate on these sorts of issues.
The text does not make clear the requirement for there to be complete and transparent reform of all Members' expenses.
The PPE-DE/PSE resolution also calls on the Commission to give an opinion on the text of the Legal Affairs Committee before it has been discussed by us in plenary.
These are: 1 - that the pay of a Member of Parliament should be no higher than that of a qualified worker; 2 - that it should be possible for elected representatives to be removed from office at any time by the people who elected them.
The Commission is consulted and the Council must agree to the statute.
I voted for a fair statute for all Members which must go hand in hand with a fair, honest and open expenses regime.
We voted against this resolution in order to reaffirm our complete disagreement with the creation of a monthly 'parliamentary allowance', the same for all Members regardless of the States they represent, because we believe that MEPs' salaries should be based on the salaries of the members of the national parliaments in the countries where they were elected, where social realities differ.
In response to the criticism of preferential treatment, a statute for MEPs was discussed in 1998 and in 2002.
I voted for this report because this proposed directive will, by introducing a short-term residence permit for victims of illegal immigration and the traffic in human beings, enable these victims to cooperate in identifying and prosecuting the perpetrators of these crimes.
Conclusion No 3 of the Tampere European Council is clear: the European Union must stop illegal immigration.
By introducing a short-term residence permit for victims of action to facilitate illegal immigration or trafficking in human beings who assist Member States in combating the networks by cooperating with the courts or the police, this directive attempts to find a solution to the serious problem posed by the increase in illegal immigration, and in particular the problem of the growth of networks of smugglers who are not acting on humanitarian grounds, not forgetting the exploitation of foreign nationals in the form of trafficking in human beings.
Every year, between 700 000 and 2 million people, mostly women and children, are the victims of trafficking in human beings.
Worldwide, trafficking in human beings is the third biggest source of illegal income, after arms trafficking and drugs trafficking.
The proposal for a directive on the short-term residence permit issued to victims of action to facilitate illegal immigration or trafficking in human beings who cooperate with the competent authorities, a proposal that Members are due to vote on today, is one of the instruments which will enable us to combat this scourge.
The rapporteur tries to make some distinction, but only partially and without drawing all the conclusions from this.
While supporting the idea of providing assistance to the victims of the trafficking in immigrants, we cannot accept the way in which the Commission tries to do this, since it treats victims of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of prostitution in the same way as it treats illegal immigrants who seek work in the European Union and only turn to illegality because of the unacceptable positions upheld by the Community institutions, which try to turn the European Union into a 'fortress Europe' instead of increasing support for cooperation with their countries of origin and supporting their integration.
We approve the principle of giving protection to the victims of networks trafficking in human beings.
Victims will remain under the control of the networks and mafias.
The opportunities for the victims to extend their residence permits are so limited that the discussions in my group have led to the conclusion that, in this case, it would be better to vote against after all.
I have agreed with this report because I believe it puts into practice a large number of declarations of intent on the protection that should be given to many of those who every day are defenceless victims and then see themselves summarily expelled from the countries where they thought they could have a worthwhile future.
In my speech on 20 November, among other things I questioned those provisions of the work programme relating to immigration, which do not seem to me to be equal to the task of solving the problem.
In its legislative work programme for 2003, the Commission has set itself three priorities: enlargement, strengthening security and stability, and the economy.
The Commission says that it wants from that a new way of doing things, a better way of doing things, involving stakeholders more, using a multi-annual, multi-species ecosystem approach to management.
And yet, at the very same time, the Commission seems hell-bent on pushing through its current proposals on cod and hake recovery, which, I believe, are so different from previous versions that they ought to be put out to further consultation.
I also think that to press ahead and agree that package with its wide-ranging consequences will, in fact, torpedo the CFP reform package and prevent any perception forthcoming from the Council that the EU actually means what it says when it states that it wants to do things in a better way.
According to the rapporteur, seven Member States, including the Netherlands, fail to implement the existing directive on the protection of animals for experiments and other scientific purposes.
She is therefore right to call for a proposal to step up this directive before the end of 2003, aimed at better control, a compulsory ethical evaluation procedure, a ban on experiments on primates caught in the wild and also a ban on animal abuse for the development of chemical weapons and cosmetics.
The rapporteur's proposals are unacceptable.
Mr President, your election on 3 June 2001 marked a new departure in the political life of your country and a step towards democratic consolidation.
I know that even before you took office you expressed a keen interest in strengthening the existing ties between Peru and the European Union.
We share so many perspectives and I look forward now to hearing you and invite you please to address the European Parliament. (Applause) Mr Cox, President of the European Parliament, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is truly an honour to be here, in a place that sets the standard for democracy in the world.
I come here today as the constitutional President of Peru, having visited you in Strasbourg last time as a President-elect.
Nevertheless, Mr President, my belief in being a rebel for the cause of democracy and freedom, human rights and the environment has not changed.
Europe plays a vital role in the world and I wish today to speak frankly to you.
If globalisation makes sense in any area it is in the field of democracy, freedom, human rights and the environment, because democracy transcends nationality, just as human rights transcend colour.
Equally, because it is our responsibility to bequeath to future generations an inhabitable world where our children and our children's children can enjoy not only democracy but also a healthy environment, where the factories that produce wealth cannot destroy the cleanliness of the environment that future generations will inherit from us.
We cannot talk about globalisation and competitiveness when there are billions of men and women in the world who will go to sleep tonight not knowing whether they will have anything to eat tomorrow.
Look at the waste of a potential market comprising these 44% of Latin Americans, who could consume more bread, more milk, more shirts and more shoes.
Today, with great affection, but at the same time, with great frankness, I would like to speak my mind on a subject on which much still remains to be done, but I am raising it as an idea.
We have undergone 30 years of structural change, 30 years in which we have been asked to put our house in order economically; we have been trying, some more than others, with varying degrees of rigour.
After 30 years of structural change, however, we have been unable to engage, we have been unable to connect structural change with a new period of sustained economic growth that generates jobs worthy of employees, that generates income and that increases internal consumption and consequently improves the quality of life of the people.
In April or May the Member countries of the Rio Group will meet in Lima, and I have deliberately asked for the main topic to be finding the financial means to fund governability and democracy in Latin America.
I am in favour of this.
The time has come to sit down together to consider creatively how to find financial mechanisms that go beyond levels of external debt and, without breaking fiscal and monetary discipline, allow us a greater degree of financial freedom to invest in public works that generate work and prevent governability and democracy in the region from being threatened.
Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, two weeks ago in my country there was a regional and municipal election and my party did not achieve good results.
I had the opportunity to get where I am today and I have arrived here, with the privilege of addressing the European Parliament, thanks to a single factor: education. (Applause) I know that many might find my presence here strange.
I know that my presence could seem strange to many, because after 500 years, thanks to teachers and education, Peru has a President with my ethnic background who, as a result of a statistical error, has become President of the Republic.
Open up your markets. (Applause) The reason, dear friends, is simple, and I hope that you will take this in the spirit in which it is meant, from someone who admires the process of European integration: trade means work.
If you ask us to do something that you are not prepared to do yourselves then you are not going to help us: let us do it together.
If we believe that globalisation should be inclusive, we must join hands to include the poor in globalisation and one way of doing that is to build a two-lane trade highway.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am 56 years old and my journey has been long and difficult, but I have learnt that what does not kill you makes you stronger.
I have come here today to share my personal conviction with you and tell you that the best investment that a family, or a society such as Peru, can make is to invest in its people's minds.
Today I would like to share with you the thought that world economic health depends on the strength of the democratic institutions and global security.
