&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 8&#160;September 2005. &#160;&#160; The first thing we should do today is welcome our Romanian and Bulgarian colleagues; I shall do so expressly in my speech to the House immediately following the adoption of the order of business.
For the moment, I can just say to them: and. &#160;&#160; The next item is the adoption of the order of business for the present part-session and the October I part-session, as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of Thursday 22 September pursuant to Rules 130 and 131 of our Rules of Procedure.
If you will allow me, I would like to use the speech I am to make next as an opportunity formally to welcome our colleagues. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, we must offer a very warm welcome today to the observers from Bulgaria and Romania, who are already seated in our Parliament.
It is also good to remember that our Parliament gave its assent to the Treaty of Accession with these countries, which is being ratified by the Member States, and I believe that we are all now expecting their accession actually to take place on the scheduled date, 1 January 2007.
Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, the arrival of our Bulgarian and Romanian colleagues comes at a particularly difficult time for the European Union.
The problem relates to the political meaning of the European project and its geographical dimension.
Today, both aspects, the political meaning and the geographical dimension, are faced with deadlock and the European Parliament must make an enormous effort in order to help resolve it.
Our Institution must contribute in every possible way to resolving this situation.
Ladies and gentlemen, a little more than a year ago I explained to you the priorities for our parliamentary work.
I therefore believe that we should review what has happened this year and reconsider our objectives for the parliamentary year ahead of us.
Please allow me to ask you collectively which of the things we proposed a year ago have been achieved, and how we are going to approach the parliamentary year now beginning during this critical phase in European integration.
I believe that one year later, an intense year in every respect, we can say that this challenge has been met and that the Union’s enlarged Parliament is operating satisfactorily.
This agreement is very important to our institution, since the absence of such an agreement had been poisoning our public image for a long time.
I would now like to point out to you that, with regard to our operational rules, we must set two objectives: the rules relating to parliamentary assistants and the reform of the financial regulation so that the Union can manage its resources more efficiently.
I propose that we set the objective that this new financial regulation should enter into force together with the 2007 budget.
That agreement enables us to make considerable progress in the field of information and democratic control.
The balance between freedom and security will therefore be a permanent element in our debate.
It was during the last part-session, when we heard Minister Clarke, and it will continue to be so in the future.
Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to pause here for a moment to tell you that one of the great issues for the future of the European Union is its relationship with the Muslim world.
I am referring, as you know, to the Constitutional Treaty and the financial perspective.
Thirteen countries have ratified it, but the French and Dutch noes have led the Council, as you know, to establish a period of reflection, to which I will refer in a moment.
With regard to the financial perspective, we have been able to draw up an ambitious and reasonable report by means of an ad hoc committee that enabled us to coordinate all the relevant points of view.
In my view, the most urgent and most important thing – at least the most urgent – is the financial perspective.
It would be good to remember that an agreement in the Council is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition if the Union is to have this multi-annual financial framework.
I have said this to members of the Council on several occasions: an agreement amongst you will be of no use unless it is acceptable to Parliament, because this is an interinstitutional agreement which involves the three Institutions.
I must inform you that the Commission and the Council have insisted that we continue to work on these legislative programmes, because they are essential to the implementation of the 2007 budget.
Over the coming days, the Conference of Presidents will have to decide how to do it and call upon the competent committees to act in a coordinated fashion in accordance with their guidelines.
However, something that it needs even more than that, something that is essential to the Union, is a budget that can be implemented from 1 January 2007.
From now on, therefore, we must anticipate the possibility that we may have to begin to draw up the 2007 annual budget before there is an agreement on the financial perspective.
From now on I would like to assure you that Parliament will do its duty, as laid down in the Treaties, in order to guarantee that, with or without a financial perspective, the Union has a budget that can be implemented for 2007.
Then we have the other great fundamental issue: the future of the Union and its relationship with the Constitutional Treaty.
As you know, the Council has agreed to a period of reflection until next spring; and that is what it is, a period of reflection.
In fact, other countries have continued their ratification processes since that Council, including, by referendum, Luxembourg.
It is clear, however, that, while we reflect, for some time we are going to carry on working with what we have: the Treaty of Nice.
There is no plan B, but amongst all of us we have coined a plan D: ‘D’ for democracy and debate.
This Parliament, therefore, in which the last great democratic debate on the Union took place with speeches by Mr Juncker and Mr Blair, this Parliament which witnessed that great moment of parliamentary democracy, must continue in this direction and – why not? – urge the Heads of State or Government of the countries in which the results of the referenda were particularly significant to continue that debate which was started so brilliantly.
Furthermore, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is in the process of drawing up a report on this period of reflection and will subsequently present its proposals to us.
Ladies and gentlemen, you will remember that a year ago I believed that the ratifications were going to be a decisive time for talking to the Europeans about Europe.
After what has happened, we must promote a great conversation amongst Europeans throughout Europe, a decentralised conversation of course, in cooperation with the national Parliaments of course, but also involving the views of the whole of civil society.
We are going to do so, of course, both with the Commission and with the Council, because we are all convinced that the Europe we are going to construct will be neither technocratic nor bureaucratic and Parliament must therefore fully demonstrate its .
We must, however, place more emphasis on the added value that Europe offers the Europeans and we will have the opportunity to do so when we debate the REACH Directive – the type of directive, incidentally, that the Commission says it will never again send – and the directives on services, working time, air safety and railways.
Our position had a definite political impact.
If Europe has to have an anti-terrorist policy that redefines the relationship between freedom and security, this Parliament must be fully involved.
Without a Constitutional Treaty, however, it is a positive sign that at the last informal Council of Home Affairs Ministers, the Council and the Commission agreed that Parliament should participate fully in the definition of this balance.
We do not yet know which texts they are – I am sure that President Barroso will tell us – but I must point out right now that, depending on the stage they are at in their passage through the Council and Parliament, their withdrawal could raise legal problems, which Parliament would like to resolve in a positive fashion.
The work of our committees will be very important for that, as will the debate that we will hold in plenary in the presence of the British Prime Minister, who will come here to hold a debate with Parliament on the eve of the Summit.
Furthermore, I must tell you that throughout all my journeys this year I have noticed that the Union’s foreign policy has ceased to be exclusively the domain of the governments; that on all my trips to non-EU countries I have noted that parliamentary diplomacy is increasing in maturity and responsibility, in particular thanks to the excellent cooperation with the Council and the Commission.
Ladies and gentlemen, when analysing the democracy that was emerging in the United States, a democracy like the one we intend to create, a supranational democracy, Alexis de Tocqueville said that nations, like men, only reach a greater destiny through dialogue and political debate.
Those of us who are already in this House will have a lot to learn from Bulgaria and Romania on how matters progress on those fronts, while they, our new observers, will have much to learn from the way we work.
An understanding attitude on the part of both sides will bring us successes in which we can all share.
I am convinced in the depths of my being that the only way we can respond to this identity crisis in which we in Europe find ourselves is if we succeed in expressing the values that unite us – even across party political boundary lines – in the shape of European constitutional law.
I also think it would be a good idea – and I believe that the President is thinking along similar lines – if we were, from time to time, irrespective of which country currently holds the presidency of the European Union, to invite to this House Heads of Government for the purpose of engaging with them in a debate on the future of Europe.
The British Home Secretary, Mr Clarke, has said that the UK Presidency of the Council is prepared to involve this House if we manage to come up with something definite within a reasonable period of time.
The Chairman of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats may well get worked up about our not being informed, but we could have been last Thursday, had not Mr Poettering, together with President Barroso, been attending an event in Lisbon staged by the European People’s Party’s think-tanks.
Let me just remind you that, between Parliament’s figures – our proposals, in other words – and those that the Summit failed to adopt, by which I mean the 1.07% compromise that was on the table there, there is a gulf of several billions, but between the demands the Commission makes on the Financial Perspective and what the Council actually wants there is a yawning chasm amounting to double that amount again.
What I am criticising, Mr President, is the Commission’s far too lengthy absence from the debate on the Financial Perspective and the Constitution.
I, too, welcome our new friends from Romania and Bulgaria.
But decisions to scrap directives and to improve scrappy directives are a process involving Parliament, and we expect a say in withdrawing or re-writing laws.
Commissioner Wallström, our involvement is your accountability.
But use your public tour of Europe, together with Mr Barroso, to get agreement in national capitals for the financing the Union needs.
Yet some of our citizens declined to sign it off.
Certainly its signatories show precious little respect for the institutions they have established.
Let us use this period of reflection to call Chirac and Balkenende before this House to tell us how they propose to proceed; hold hearings with those who have not yet ratified; confront the Member States with their responsibilities.
Your situation is, in fact, peculiar.
If Mr&#160;Barroso thinks this or that about the Constitution, let him come and say so to Parliament.
Moreover, on this issue, Mr&#160;Poettering, you cannot say that, as regards the content, you agree with Mr&#160;Barroso: we do not know what Mr&#160;Barroso wants.
Let Mrs&#160;Reding come and propose her new directive on television, and you will see that what the Commission wants will never gain majority support in this House.
Matters are therefore very straightforward.
The Commission makes proposals and formulates ideas.
Let it come to Parliament to present its ideas.
We want a Parliament.
To overcome it, political choices have to take precedence over market requirements, because if, in the name of international competition, we are content with adapting ourselves to globalisation as it is today, then there is quite simply no room either for social issues or for solidarity.
With the mass unemployment, rapid growth in job insecurity, large-scale poverty and glaring inequalities that we are experiencing, it would be politically irresponsible and socially explosive to remain with set ideas about free competition, restrictions on public spending, social and fiscal dumping and, the icing on the cake, miserly budgets.
These will be followed by the texts on regional transport, port services and working time, without forgetting the opinions that we will have to provide on the negotiations at the WTO and, in particular, on the General Agreement on Trade in Services.
Secondly, we should take a number of significant political initiatives on major issues of civilisation.
As Marx said – and I mean Groucho Marx, not Karl Marx – 'I wouldn't join any club that would have me as a member'.
As far as the EU is concerned that is pretty sound advice, because this is a club whose accounts have not been signed off for the last ten years.
What a nonsense that we are spending EUR 200 million a year of taxpayers' money on the monthly jaunt to Strasbourg.
What we have seen here today is the ability of an institution such as ours to raise our voices in grave concern and yet come up with no solution.
Because, ultimately, if we really want to respond to what is occurring in the European Union of today, we must first recognise that, whatever crisis we may perceive, the people out there do not see it as a crisis.
There are 16 individual directives dealing with the purchase, marketing and presentation of fertiliser for sale.
The challenges for us today are to ensure that we can create a proper structure for Europe in the 21st century.
Funding is a core issue and there must be agreement on the financial perspective.
Member States must make a payment towards the central budget to ensure that we can assist those countries most in need, and to ensure that we can continue to drive forward Europe as a dynamic, innovative and creative centre.
Likewise it is important that we in this Parliament view our role responsibly and that, when we do not like or agree with legislation, we do not flunk the decision – as we did with the computer-implemented inventions directive, as we are trying to do with the services directive, and as we have done with many other proposed directives in the past.
Finally, when we speak about an area of freedom, security and justice, it is justice which must be first and foremost among those aims and ideals, because, unless we can guarantee people that their individual rights and freedoms are protected, then we will have failed in our first duty as legislators, namely, to ensure that the laws that we pass not only protect the common good, but do not adversely affect the minority. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, last but not least I would like to take my turn in welcoming our new colleagues from Romania and Bulgaria.
They will, I hope, restore to the French language and culture a little of the lustre it has lost here as successive enlargements have taken place, in particular with the accession of countries from Northern Europe and Central and Eastern Europe.
I welcome, in particular, our five colleagues and friends from the Romania Mare party in the great country of Romania and our Bulgarian colleague from the Attack party.
They have come as observers to the European Parliament at a time when Turkey, on 3 October 2005, will be starting its accession talks, even though its accession was one of the reasons why the Constitution was rejected, and without it having acknowledged the Republic of Cyprus and, furthermore, without it wanting to do so.
I believe that, with 10% of its population of Turkish origin, Bulgaria is particularly sensitive to this major event.
May our colleagues know that they can count on our support in the European Parliament to defend the Europe of our native lands in the face of destructive globalisation and the flood of migrants.
Mr&#160;Chirac addressed the European Commission, quite shamelessly, to request its intervention in the Hewlett Packard affair, with its 1&#160;240 compulsory redundancies.
This will be the return to national ideas and to economic patriotism in the service of the people.
From the very beginning, the Commission not only supported the Constitution, but was also actively involved in the work of the Convention.
That does not mean that we will not continue to work actively on the political agenda in order to deliver concrete results for the citizens of Europe.
We must also use this period of reflection to engage in a dialogue with citizens.
This is the only way to ensure that we can gain their full support for a new Constitution.
We want to find a common understanding with Member States on the way forward, with the help of the European Parliament.
President Barroso and I will present our preliminary ideas on this Plan D to the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday.
A communication to the Council and Parliament is also being prepared and I hope that a formal version of this will be ready later this week to give you an opportunity to react to it.
The best way to overcome the current crisis is to convince Europeans of the relevance of Europe.
Our objectives of prosperity, solidarity and security are still valid and indeed are more relevant than ever.
They are in tune with what people in Europe want when we ask them through the Euro-barometer polls – more and better jobs; preserving social and territorial cohesion; managing the earth's resources in a sustainable way; and reinforcing security in Europe and the world as a whole.
This Commission made a renewed and strong commitment to better regulation at the beginning of its mandate, and better regulation at all levels has also become a central plank of the revised Lisbon Strategy.
My colleague, Mr Verheugen, has kept this House regularly informed about the Commission's approach and, having looked at the calendar, I see that there have been at least ten occasions, including the preliminary hearings, on which this House has been informed about the agenda on better regulation, in addition to the general information provided in interviews and on other occasions.
Pursuant to Article 12 of the framework agreement, Commissioner Verheugen will submit our proposal to Parliament before it is made public – it will be presented here in full tomorrow, immediately after the Commission has discussed it.
With reference to Article 32 of the framework agreement, our proposal, which is a political decision at this stage, is intended as prior notification to the other institutions and, in line with established practice, the legal act of withdrawal will be taken in three months' time.
This exercise has been long announced and the Commission has been open both on the methods and the objectives.
I would like to reaffirm my personal commitment to keeping this objective high on the Commission agenda.
I shall not miss any opportunity to remind colleagues that it is here that proposals should first be presented. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mrs&#160;Wallström.
I regret that a legislative text of absolutely crucial importance to the funding of our economy – which is, I repeat, a legislative text – should be included in today’s agenda only as from 7.30&#160;p.m.
I understand the importance of these moments to pause for breath and to conduct political debates, but I believe that it is also important for our Parliament to treat its legislative work in a reasonable fashion. &#160;&#160; Thank you for your comment on the way we carry out our work, but we can only follow the order of business that we have adopted.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; – The next item is one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today is European Day of Languages.
We in this House should, however, also realise that compliance with internal rules in the area of language diversity is an expression of respect for each human being and contributes to our institution’s democratic functioning.
Lifeline ferry services are too important to be ignored. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to share with you my concern about yet another example of a shocking homophobic speech in one of the national parliaments of an EU Member State.
In this case we are talking about the Parliament of Latvia, which is discussing the implementation of Article 13 – on European anti-discrimination legislation – as well as a proposed constitutional ban on same-sex marriages.
The Democratic Unionist Party, one of whose members is elected to this Parliament, must re-engage with the peace process.
We are firmly convinced that the agreement on building the gas pipeline was devised to be detrimental to several Member States of the European Union.
The agreement also suggests a clear association … &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there are only 15&#160;months left before the start of the Union's first new seven–year budgetary period.
By failing to produce a budget, the Union is sending out the wrong kind of message to its future members and its external partners.
It is presenting itself as weak, lacking vision for the future and the political will to work together in solidarity in order to build that future.
I call on the Council and the UK Presidency to ensure that work on the budget is concluded at the earliest opportunity. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Poland is into its second year of membership of the European Union, but the outlook for Polish farmers is getting steadily worse, not better.
The same is true of Polish potato growers, who are the main producers of this crop in the Union, and of producers of cereals and textile plants.
Members of this House do understand the situation, but the same is not true of the European Commission, which tends to ignore Parliament and disregard the decisions it takes.
This was what happened in the case of the report on starch production, for example.
In July of this year, the IRA called on its units to dump their arms and today we have verification that those words have been translated into action.
In the European Parliament, I wish to applaud the positive and supportive role of the European Union in this process.
Finally, on this day we remember the victims and their families whose lives have been shattered.
Poland and the Baltic States have been bypassed, much to the detriment of the national interests of countries that are part of the same structure, namely the European Union.
I also call for the information provided to be made available to the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, Europe is capable of showing solidarity, as it demonstrated in connection with the tragic events in Portugal.
The European Parliament should stand up for Europe and denounce this act for what it really is.
Europe needs decisions that transcend local interests.
It would be like trying to build a brick house without using any mortar. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we have received particularly worrying information over recent days from Turkish non-governmental human rights organisations about the prosecution and sentencing of Turkish journalists.
I refer not only to the case of the author Orhan Pamuk, but also to the case of the journalist Emin Karaca, who has been sentenced to five months in prison for violating Article 301, paragraph 2, of the recently revised penal code.
What I cannot accept, however, is the fact that more than a year after the accession of ten new Member States, there is still at least one parliamentary committee in which no interpretation for certain new Member State languages is provided, and that colleagues from these states are unable to take part in the deliberations of these committees using their official mother tongue.
It is not an acceptable state of affairs and I call on you to reassure the House, on this day of linguistic freedom, that this regrettable situation will be remedied as soon as possible and that it will not arise again when the next two new Member States join the EU in the near future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one quarter of the Irish GDP is tied up in construction.
I need answers for the people of Watergrass Hill, Glenville and other towns: the people who are struggling with life in shiny new clusters of houses with no soul. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to take advantage of today's celebration of the European Day of Languages to express my concern about the lack of teaching of their mother tongue to the children of nationals of the Member States who move and establish in other Member States of the Union, with the result that these children forget their language of origin and, at the same time, their cultural identity.
He was motivated by the conviction that if people who had committed crimes can leave the past behind without any consequences, this past would return, poisoning both the present and the future.
Simon Wiesenthal died.
His legacy to us is the knowledge that contempt for another human being and taking human lives should never be allowed to unite Europe again.
This dam, which is scheduled for completion on 15 November, in other words in fewer than 50 days from today, will result in the flooding and definitive loss of one of the most important archaeological sites in Asia Minor today.
I refer to Allianoi, a Roman spa centre which lies 18&#160;kilometres from the town of Bergama.
I believe that the European Parliament should take a stand on the question of this loss and, given that the Commission's reply was unsatisfactory, I propose that the President of Parliament write to the Turkish president calling for a halt to work to complete the dam, which will result in the definitive loss of a piece of European cultural heritage. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the presence of Commissioner McCreevy and his colleagues, I would like to put down a marker about the Commission's proposed reform of the sugar regime.
The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization forecast world sugar consumption at 145 million tonnes for 2004 and 2005, with production at 143 million tonnes.
Factor in the inevitable impact on sugar cane consumption patterns by the projected increases in gasohol as oil prices rise and alternative biofuel technologies become mainstream.
Europe must not remain silent, but must take decisive steps to secure the freedom of those upholding human rights; to ensure that Morocco, the Sahrawi who have stayed in Western Sahara and the refugees reach an agreement to live in peace, working together to create the new democratic Arab-Sahrawi Republic; and to ensure that they no longer live in exile or in prison. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I also wish to welcome our Romanian colleagues, in particular to my own group, from the Romanian Democratic Party, the Democratic Alliance of Hungarians in Romania and the Romanian Conservative Party.
We should not make this an obsession, but we must draw conclusions and look to the future.
Therefore on 22 September this year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs once again sent a Note Verbale communicating its renewed request for a diplomatic resolution to this issue.
Italy is bound by international treaty to return everything that it removed from occupied territory, and for this reason we justifiably expect these works of art to be returned to Slovenia. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the debate on the Commission statement: ‘Twenty-fifth anniversary of Solidarity and its message for Europe’.
As was mentioned by the President of the Commission in Gdansk on 31&#160;August, 'Solidarity' was an inspired choice of name for the union which was born from the strike in Gdansk.
The remembrance of the events of August 1980 enriches this word with meaning and emotion.
The Commission has been happy to contribute to the commemorative events which took place in Gdansk three weeks ago, to celebrate the 25th&#160;anniversary of these historic events, upon the invitation of the Polish Government and of the honourable Members of this Parliament.
Secondly, for Central and Eastern Europe it meant doing away with the division of Europe effected at Yalta at the end of the Second World War.
Thirdly, for Western Europe Solidarity meant rediscovering the true meaning of values that had disappeared from public life as a result of .
I refer to values such as freedom, solidarity, democracy and the dignity of the individual.
Thanks to Solidarity, many people in Western Europe came to understand that the fundamental values revived by Solidarity had to become part of the fabric of the reorganised and reunited Europe.
The message and significance of these events transcends the experience of a single nation.
They have a far more universal meaning and a pan-European nature.
If the Schuman plan is recognised as the basic premise underpinning European integration, then the Gdansk shipyard demands must be seen as heralding another important stage in the process.
In their September&#160;1981&#160;message to workers in Central and Eastern Europe, Solidarity activists wrote about the sense of a common fate uniting all Europeans in the eastern part of our continent.
Twenty-five years later that same expression appeared in the preamble to the Constitutional Treaty, referring on this occasion to the enlarged European Union.
The Solidarity movement highlights the importance of solidarity as the basis of any system of trust and unity.
The action was led and organised by an Inter-enterprise Strike Committee and by Lech Wałęsa at the Gdansk shipyard.
On 31&#160;August an agreement was signed at the Gdansk shipyard.
I would like to pay tribute to all the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe, who are to be admired for their struggle in the cause of democracy, human rights and national sovereignty.
In its programme, namely the 21&#160;Gdansk demands, and also the Self-Governing Republic programme, Solidarity presented a vision of a society and a country bound together by freedom, where human rights were respected and social justice prevailed.
Solidarity’s programme can still serve as an inspiration at global level and also at European level, as Europe tackles the challenge of creating an effective economy and a just society.
In the 21st century, Solidarity’s message demands a European Union foreign policy that actively promotes democracy and human rights, and support for those who are currently persecuted because they belong to a minority. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, on behalf of the Group for the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, I would first like to pay tribute to the Polish workers who set in motion the process of the liberation and unification of Europe.
I am moved and grateful to note that both the European Parliament and the European Commission appreciate the significance of the events that took place on Polish soil 25&#160;years ago.
Polish workers took to their hearts the message of the Polish Pope, who urged them not to have fear.
It was Polish workers who took action on behalf of their country, which longed for freedom.
The workers took action in the name of freedom, standing up to a regime and a system that claimed to represent them.
It is a very significant word for us, a truly Polish word, and represents Poland’s contribution to the idea of Europe.
When I joined in the celebrations in Warsaw and Gdansk three weeks ago, it was again brought home to me just how relevant to our own time this groundbreaking historic event actually is.
The legendary strike by Solidarity that we are commemorating is part of our living heritage, and has lost none of its significance in 25 years.
The years 1953, 1956, and 1968 are significant in the histories of East Germany, Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia, but Solidarity gave impetus and reinforcement to the civil rights movements in Central and Eastern Europe, such as Charta 77, which campaigned for traditional, political human rights, the ‘Swords into Ploughshares’ peace campaign in the former East Germany, and the ‘Dunakör’ environmentalist movement in Hungary.
What all this adds up to is that, without Solidarity, the Berlin Wall would not have fallen.
Today, Poland is a political democracy among other political democracies.
At the same time, a lot remains to be done, considering the social demands made by Solidarity in terms of worker influence and a better standard of living.
The slogan that inspired millions of members of this trade union in 1980 and 1981 and also during the period of martial law was ‘There can be no freedom without Solidarity’.
You must believe me, ladies and gentlemen, when I say that the political, moral and material solidarity shown to us by people in the West helped to keep our hopes alive and made us feel that our efforts were not hopeless and that we were not alone.
Freedom can easily turn into anarchy or a new kind of oppression if it lacks a moral dimension.
I should like to thank the many millions of ordinary working people in my homeland whose efforts enabled us to be in this fortunate position.
There is an obvious need for solidarity between generations, between social partners, between more developed countries and less developed countries in the areas of security, disaster relief and so on.
I think that today is the right time for people who have not lived under the yoke of Communism to pay their respects to those who, particularly in Poland, rose against a regime that we all considered reprehensible.
I think that it was, in fact, an example of the best the labour movement as we have known it in Europe had to offer, the democratic labour movement that, in terms of freedom, political awareness and emancipation, has also had great significance in our countries.
The Polish struggle for freedom, and its history, enrich our continent; the story of the Polish plumber become even more poignant in the light of this historic role.
Although Solidarity lives on in Poland and in the hearts of the Polish people, as is evident once again today, it also deserves to be remembered as a shining, European example. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Socialists of the 19th and early 20th centuries saw it as the ideal that human society should be based on the equality of all people and on their mutual solidarity; that people should not be made subordinate to the state or their employer, and that we should be free to make our own choices and organise society from the bottom up.
This belief would certainly have led those old Socialists, including their great thinker Karl Marx, to applaud the Polish workers’ protest in the 70s and 80s of the 20th century.
To one group, it represented the return to the Conservative Poland of the Pilsudski period between the wars; to the other, it was a necessary step towards the replacement of the caricature of Socialism conceived after 1945 by a real, Socialist democracy.
Had it not been for Solidarity, the Berlin Wall would have fallen later, or might even still be standing.
Attempts had been made previously by the Czechs, Slovaks and Hungarians to overthrow that diabolical system, but it was the Poles and the Polish Pope who eventually succeeded in dismantling the agreements reached at Yalta.
We should show solidarity with the whole world, but not betray Europe in the name of internationalism. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the fact that the left has just been voted out of office in Poland lends added poignancy to this debate.
I congratulate Mr&#160;Saryusz-Wolski and the Civic Platform, as well as the Law and Justice Party, on their victory in yesterday's general election, and I am sure Poland has a great future under new leadership.
Britain has always felt a special affinity with Poland, and this was evidenced in the early 1980s when Poland was going through very difficult times.
It was a British Conservative Minister for Foreign Affairs, Malcolm Rifkind, who went to Warsaw and became the first western politician to meet with representatives of Solidarity, an act that infuriated the Communist regime.
This meeting was symbolic of the deep bond between Britain and Poland.
In the town of Gdansk, which you have as a symbol, poverty reigns.
That is what they think about the European Union. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to say to the previous speaker that those workers and others would not, at any price, wish to turn the clock back to the time before Solidarity.
In my view, solidarity is a concept that deserves a special entry in all encyclopaedias.
Europe is too complex and diverse for this aim to be achieved without solidarity.
It is for contemporary European solidarity to ensure that at the end of the next 25&#160;years, Members will be able to speak in similar terms about today’s Parliament and Commission, and credit them with playing a leading role in the historical process we are all involved in. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, today we are commemorating the 25th anniversary of Polish Solidarity and debating its message for Europe.
We remember the days and months when the Polish people could take no more and when Polish workers went on strike in Gdansk.
We often forget, however, that the strike and the solidarity in Gdansk were preceded by years of Polish revolt against Communism.
Many fought for freedom, doing so each independently and in different ways, but there was no combined force uniting all Poles around the same idea.
When, almost two decades after Gdansk, the people of Serbia protested against Milosevic’s regime, they had learned something from Solidarity.
The most important message for Europe had already been sent by Solidarity.
This too is a message sent by Solidarity to Europe: that Europe does not tolerate either Communist, or any other, dictatorships or, indeed, any systems of totalitarianism or enslavement.
The future of Europe lies in freedom, and that is something we all defend, and today most especially by expressing our respect for, and gratitude towards, the people of Poland and Eastern Europe who fought for a free Europe during the 1980s and 90s. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, Solidarity was an extraordinary experiment involving a community that developed on the basis of common values and confidence in freedom.
Millions of individuals committed themselves in solidarity to the life of their own country, a country that was free for 16&#160;months until 13&#160;December, when General&#160;Jaruzelski’s Communist dictatorship struck against this movement with a .
Communism was mortally wounded at the Gdansk shipyard in August&#160;1980, and received its nine years later in 1989.
We were helped in our struggle by other European nations.
The Solidarity ethic could contribute to the creation of a contemporary vision of Europe that would awaken the interest of the world.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; Solidarity is not exclusively part of Poland’s heritage.
Solidarity, together with its values and ethos, should become part of the heritage of the whole of Europe and indeed of the whole of the world.
As stated in our resolutions, 25&#160;years ago the workers of Gdańsk opened a new chapter in the European struggle for bread and freedom.
Let me stress that the work on the Capital Requirements Directive has been a very good example of efficient cooperation between Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
Our proposal has been prepared in close cooperation with Member States and the finance industry and was subject to extensive consultation.
The new regime will have a solid basis of three pillars.
Firstly, more risk-sensitive regulatory capital requirements, which are closer in line with banks’ own practices; secondly, an enhanced supervisory review process to ensure a closer fit of these new requirements; and, thirdly, disclosure requirements which improve transparency and market discipline.
This proposal represents a move to an altogether more sophisticated and refined approach to supervision and risk management.
Let me now turn to the comitology issue.
As we all know, this debate is linked to the wider question of the powers of the Council and the European Parliament in the comitology procedures.
I welcome the efforts made by the European Parliament and the Council to find agreement on this issue.
I think we all agree that adoption in first reading of this directive is in the interest of all three institutions and it is also what the marketplace wants.
I welcome the initiative taken by the Presidency to set up a ‘Friends of the Presidency’ group to launch the discussion on the Commission proposal in the Council.
The Commission stands ready to cooperate both with Parliament and the Council to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion on this delicate matter as soon as possible.
But introducing a sunset clause, coming into force on 1 January 2007, would be too short.
The introduction of such a reduced period for implementing powers – much shorter than the normal period of four years – clearly emphasizes the need urgently to find a solid, lasting and balanced solution for the supervision of the Commission’s implementing powers by both branches of the legislative authority.
While the Commission lives by the commitments made by the then President, Romano Prodi, and my predecessor Frits Bolkestein, when the European Parliament approved the Lamfalussy process, the Commission understands that a renewal of its implementing powers for those directives would be problematic in the absence of an overall solution on comitology.
Perhaps you could look through the agendas for this week and find another subject, another position where we adopt acts under the codecision procedure, unless you really do think that everything we discuss this week is of high priority.
There are a number of new things in this directive that will change financial supervision in Europe, for example the Lead Supervisor System, under which one supervisor can overrule another when approving internal ratings, and which puts us on the way to a European market.
I want to emphasise that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has always given the Lamfalussy procedure’s comitology its backing, believing this to be right and important in terms of quick legislation that meets the needs of the market, but we had always considered the former Lamfalussy agreement in the light of a future constitution, by providing for a callback mechanism.
Today, we need no new debate on the Constitution, but if, in future, we come to draft more directives using Lamfalussy comitology, we will need to conclude a new agreement on the subject to secure Parliament’s rights by providing that, where we delegate them, we can also ‘call them back’, by which I mean better scrutiny, more options for definitions and also the general withdrawal of the delegated power if things start to go wrong.
It is not acceptable that, in the future, international bodies should define standards and that these should be implemented without scrutiny by this House.
I am optimistic, not only as regards the date for the sunset clause, but also as regards the recitals, about our chances of achieving a good compromise this week and that we will succeed in our aim of getting this adopted at first reading.
What I hear from many Member States is that they are doing these things already, and I believe we are on the right track towards achieving this.
I would like to add a number of comments on comitology from the point of view not only of the Legal Affairs Committee, but also of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and will be commenting on them later on.
The dialogue between legislators, supervisors and banks, both at national and European level, referred to in the Lamfalussy procedure can also help to keep supervision appropriate to the function concerned.
The problems in relation to comitology began some years ago now, when the Commission presented Parliament with the financial services action plan, which proposed the rapid implementation of forty-something measures in the field of financial services.
The finance they provide plays an important part in the further development of the EU through its infrastructure, housebuilding, municipalities, energy industry and, not least, its small and medium-sized business.
The banks also bear an economic responsibility, and Basel II must not be misused as an excuse to the detriment of debtors or at their expense.
Basel II is also intended to create a level playing field for competition between the big banking groups and the savings banks and credit unions that operate on a regional basis, and it was for that reason that I pressed for the greatest possible objectivity in the treatment of what are termed inter-bank loans.
The rules on information and transparency that Parliament is demanding for Basel II are actually taken for granted in modern legislation, and that should also be reflected in the right of recall.
In the ensuing troika discussions, the Council accepted many of Parliament’s amendments, and we managed to extract several concessions and compromises from it, with the effect that the technical substance of Basel II can be regarded as balanced.
Discussion of Basel II has of course touched on the subject of comitology, something about which all speakers have already had something to say.
As was only to be expected, the troika negotiations on comitology proved to be particularly problematic.
The international Basel II proposals, which this directive implements, are designed to achieve a better match between capital and risk than the simple 8% capital asset ratio of Basel I.
As Mr Radwan stressed, other problems are the extent to which risk-spreading amongst individual banks of a banking group should imply a reduction in regulatory capital, and the difficulty of defining the division of responsibility across national supervisors.
The rapporteur recommends that, owing to doubt, this directive should be reviewed in the future.
The banking industry does not need that.
The financial services sector has become very sophisticated at risk management and so the regulatory framework has to respond to the times.
At the same time, however, it would be unwise to underestimate the importance of risk management in the traditional areas of credit and market risks.
The way in which financial services are conducted has changed and will continue to change.
It is fortunate that we are only at first reading stage.
Surely the Presidency can make a supreme effort and undertake to reach a conclusion on the comitology issue to a mutually agreeable timescale.
The text strikes a balance between an approach sensitive to risk and one that is sensitive to real challenges in terms of competition, whether within or outside the Europe Union.
I will make three remarks.
The first is that, as regards the content of this text, any aspects enabling us to assess and take better account of the risks taken by the banking sector – and, more generally, by the financial institutions sector – are steps in the right direction, insofar as they are backed up by reasonable consolidation and, above all, with the implementation of effective supervision mechanisms.
I believe that, behind the way in which this matter is handled, the issue of knowing how to implement a lead supervisor at European level remains altogether crucial, and we will have to return to it over the next few years.
The debate is open, but I personally have my doubts on this matter.
Behind all of that, a challenge in terms of competition for our economies exists that we cannot overlook, and we are counting on your vigilance in order to prevent this from leading to a situation that results in the European Union being discriminated against.
My final point concerns the issue of comitology, which all my fellow Members have spoken about.
Differing rules between one Member State and another in crucial areas entail high costs and, thus, less prosperity.
A large part of our economies’ dynamic is based upon the institutional competition we have between countries when it comes to developing efficient and growth-promoting institutions.
When it comes to Basel&#160;II, individual countries should operate independently within the framework of this cooperation between central banks.
I am pleased and also proud that we have managed to prepare this complex dossier, including the added rules for the trading book, so quickly and efficiently in our Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, something on which all those involved deserve many congratulations.
According to this procedure, framework legislation is adopted by the EU institutions whilst technical details are delegated to the different committees in the comitology and to the European groups of supervisors who, in turn, delegate in very close dialogue and consultation with market operators and other stakeholders.
I am a forthright advocate of this approach and believe that we can use it to find effective solutions for better regulations in other areas too.
Paradoxically, we have not yet applied the Lamfalussy method to this capital adequacy directive, but are now laying down everything, including the appendices and mathematical formulas, at the level of legislators as a group.
I think that that should be spelled out once more, which is what we intended to do in this directive in order to crank up the pressure so as to obtain this formal call-back right.
The problem was around back in 1999, before the conventions were introduced to prepare treaty changes, and there now has to be a structural solution to the problem.
I will conclude by making two remarks.
Firstly, I note once again that the consolidation and harmonisation approach leads to a dead end.
Let us not confuse the need for a common framework with egalitarianism.
Secondly, the dialogue with the financial stakeholders can be conducted in complete transparency and to everyone’s satisfaction. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish firstly to thank Mr&#160;Radwan and also congratulate him on the major, complicated and important piece of work he has done.
To my Swedish fellow Member who spoke previously, I should like to say that, if we did not have European cooperation, we should not have the opportunity to exercise democratic and parliamentary control over the regulations designed here.
The directive will also entail more flexible risk assessment which – and this is important to remember – is basically good for European consumers and businesses.
Had Basel II been accepted in its original form, that would of course be an extraordinarily bad sign for Europe’s present economic state, and so I want to express warm thanks to the rapporteur for our group, Mr&#160;Radwan, for the extraordinarily difficult job he has done in this regard.
I see this directive, in the form in which it is presented in his report for the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee, as providing us with an excellent means of dispelling the fears of small and medium-sized businesses.
The second point I want to pick up is the same as that addressed by Mrs Berès.
It does not often happen that I agree with her, but on this occasion and in this matter I do.
Great believer in the trans-Atlantic relationship though I am, I do think we need to take care that economic harmonisation in Europe does not take us down different roads from those taken on the other side of the Atlantic.
In 2007, there will be three more directives that have gone through the Lamfalussy procedure: the directive on responsibilities in relation to prospectuses, the Market Abuse Directive and the one on financial conglomerates.
This is where the European Parliament can play its part, and so I welcome this directive in the form in which Mr Radwan has presented it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to congratulate Mr&#160;Radwan on the quality of his report in a field that is very technical, but crucial for banking.
The draft directive implements or updates the general security principles of the banking system and, in particular, as regards the solvency of credit institutions.
I acknowledge, however, that the draft directive, as amended by Parliament, strikes the greatest balance we could realistically envisage at present between the responsibilities of the regulatory authorities in the home country and of those in the host country with regard to banking groups carrying out cross-border activities.
It is important that the directive enter into force on the date scheduled.
Mr Radwan may well have produced a splendid dossier, but what matters is that Commissioner Verheugen should give his attention to the question of how best to introduce this directive in Europe, how to prevent insolvencies and encourage company formations.
This Parliament has tabled amendments to our proposals that improve the rules for retail and SME lending still further.
Some other Members – in particular Mrs Berès and Mr&#160;Purvis – raised the question of a level playing field for Europe and the United States.
I take on board, however, what Mr Purvis and Mrs Berès said, not only in this particular regard, but also in other areas relating to the United States.
As regards comitology, I note with satisfaction that the rapporteur is putting forward a helpful and constructive proposal here and I hope that, not only with this directive but in other areas as well, we can bring the matter to a successful conclusion, with the cooperation of the various actors.
Furthermore, the solutions proposed are well-balanced and respect the Commission's initial intentions for this legislation. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Efficient cooperation between the institutions should make it possible to adopt this proposal in a single reading.
The situation is very similar to what was said in the context of Mr Radwan’s report on the capital requirements directive just a few moments ago.
The Committee of Permanent Representatives considered that a sunset clause under which the implementing powers would be suspended could harm the effective implementation of this directive.
The Commission shares the concerns expressed by the Council.
I understand that your rapporteur would propose a sunset clause of two years after the entry into force of the directive, but 1&#160;April 2008 at the latest.
This solution would correspond with the solution found in Mr Radwan's report on the proposed capital requirements directive.
We also managed to restrict the administrative burden on the small and medium-sized enterprise in some areas and the Commission has undertaken to present a report on liability before the end of 2006.
All in all, it is a vital piece of legislation which, in my view, has become somewhat more pragmatic in the past six months and also more practical in its application, which is, after all, what this is all about.
I would like to add, though, that with regard to Article 26, which concerns the adoption of the international accountancy standards, we should make an exception, because these involve, in terms of this sunset clause, international agreements.
Needless to say, if and when a new regulation on comitology is introduced, the call-back right will also need to apply to accountancy standards of this kind.
I should also like to thank the Commission and the Council for the constructive attitude, and we can be very satisfied with the results achieved. &#160;&#160; .
As my speaking time is limited, I would like to concentrate on Commissioner McCreevy’s proposal for a study into the likely effects of limited liability on the auditing firms’ internal market.
The rapporteur has worked hard to involve us in the drawing up of the text and in his meetings with the Council and the Commission, so that this proposal may contribute to the homogenisation of European legislation in such an important field as auditing, which has caused so much concern amongst the public following the Enron and Parmalat scandals.
I believe that equality of treatment and the security of citizens and clients should be guaranteed in this field.
A further scandal leading to a loss of confidence in another large auditing firm could be fatal, not just for the company affected, but also for the stability of the system.
If one compares the main points from the opinion I drafted for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the final version that Mr&#160;Doorn, the rapporteur, presented us with after the troika negotiations, one sees that they overlap to a great degree, for example as regards rotation, the costs incurred by small and medium-sized businesses, and liability.
I welcome the proposal that the Commission should produce a study on the liability issue by the end of 2006, and I agree with what Mr Schwab had to say about this.
I would have liked to hear a more positive message in relation to two other important matters, those being the establishment of an audit committee and the provision of additional non-audit services.
I am also glad that Mr Doorn, in his report, addresses the issue of comitology, although I would expect the date for the sunset clause to be 1 January rather than 1 April 2008.
For some time there has been a need for a directive like the one that we are putting forward, which is proving to be a success at first reading and establishes the balance that we have reached in Parliament.
I also thank the rapporteur for the intelligent solution put forward for the rotation of auditing firms.
My country is very much in favour of that solution and very pleased with it – I speak from my own experience, of course, but I believe other countries will have come to the same conclusion.
To conclude, I agree with all the positive assessments that have been made; I am very pleased to state in formal terms that the report has been worthwhile, and the rapporteur and I put it to this House. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when we first discussed the issue of corporate governance following the high-level group's report, it was in the context of Enron and the WorldCom scandals.
Thanks to the pragmatism of our rapporteur, Bert Doorn, and good cooperation with the Commission and Presidency, we now have a flexible EU instrument that will raise the quality and consistency of audits across Europe while also respecting the good domestic company law provisions already in place.
I could mention events concerning Enron or Parmalat, for example.
The European Commission’s initiative constitutes a welcome response to the situation.
The Commission’s draft on statutory audits is the result of many years of preparation and incorporates recommendations made in 2000 and 2002.
This directive is to replace the 1984 eighth directive concerning statutory auditors, which only contains the principles of accreditation of auditors, but does not refer to the audit procedure, supervision or external quality control.
Mr Doorn and others raised the question of audit reliability and personally I take a great interest in this particular area.
The European Parliament and the Council support the view that as much leeway as possible should be left to the Member States of the EU to invent their own system for audit committees of listed companies as long as they perform all the functions listed in our Directive.
It is very important for business and for everybody that people have confidence in the auditing profession, confidence in the independence of auditors, in the type of standards that they adhere to and in the ethics of the profession.
Again as I have said, the question of comitology was raised as it was in the previous debate, and I repeat that the proposal to suspend it after two years, except for Article 26, is acceptable to the Commission in this particular Directive.
I thank the Members for their detailed contributions. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The first fisheries agreement with the country dates back to 1988.
I believe that these new elements introduced in dialogue with the Comoros authorities and according to the principles set out in the new Fisheries Partnership Agreements will ensure that the Comoros Agreement contributes to responsible and sustainable fisheries in the Comoros.
This work includes the establishment of annual and multi-annual objectives, the distribution of the part of the financial compensation – 60%, the aims to be attained and criteria and procedures in order to allow for an evaluation of the yearly results obtained in accordance with Article 7 of the Protocol.
However, the Commission already complies with the transmission of this kind of information in line with both the current inter-institutional arrangements and in particular with the Framework Agreement between the Commission and the European Parliament.
Therefore, the Commission considers that these amendments are not necessary.
The Council has authorised the Commission to negotiate fisheries agreements and arrangements between the Community and the Comoros.
This group meets on a regular basis and discusses upcoming negotiations and any other technical issues.
This Parliament, like the sector, finds itself faced with a policy, carried out by the Commission’s negotiators quite independently, and without giving us the opportunity to examine those decisions more than fleetingly, and the protocol reaches our committee – increasingly late by the way – signed and sealed.
From the point of view of budgetary transparency, this situation is unacceptable.
Finally, Mr President, for the sake of the necessary simplification and following an admirable period of patience on the part of this Parliament, the time has come to demand that the Commission present its model for regional agreements and, in particular, the tuna type of agreement.
The content of the fisheries agreements is of vital importance to European fisheries, the developing countries and particularly also to the fish.
Although, as a new member on the Committee on Fisheries, I missed the debates on the Comoros, I would nevertheless like to make two points.
The agreement follows an arrangement that was very profitable for the European Union.
For every euro that was invested, the European Union earned EUR 5.7 back.
Article 7 of the Protocol stipulates that the EU should help ensure the future sustainability of tuna fishing.
The Comoros has a strategic position and, according to the rapporteur, a fisheries agreement with this island republic would therefore supplement the EU’s present agreements with third countries.
The EU exploits its assumption of power in order to secure short-term economic interests.
The tuna fish agreement with the Comoros is not especially extensive, but the issue of fisheries agreements is important on principle.
The ambition seems to be to increase aid without doing anything about the structural problems that make it difficult for the developing countries to escape from poverty. &#160;&#160; Mr President, previous speakers have not even bothered to visit the countries with which we sign fisheries agreements; I have done so: I have been in the Comoros, I have lived amongst its people, I have seen how they live and I have seen the importance of this Agreement to the economic development of these islands.
I entirely agree with the rapporteur on this issue.
I believe that this is an important Agreement for us and for the population of the Comoros and I therefore approve of its wording.
The current structure of the agreements assists the development of these countries.
The Committee on Fisheries’ proposals in this regard are reasonable and we fully support them; they would help us to avoid bureaucratic procedures.
We also need a general policy with regard to the whole of this area of the Indian Ocean, in which, although our presence in terms of seiners is significant, the general presence of the European Union is very small compared to the fishing of these resources by Asian countries such as Taiwan, Japan or the Republic of Korea, who are exploiting those resources at the expense of the population.
The European Union’s volume of fishing is very moderate and I naturally agree with the rapporteur’s complaint that there is a kind of discrimination, by virtue of which, in the agreements with the south, it is the fishermen who have to pay, while in the case of the agreements with the north, this increase in payments that they now want to impose on us is not happening.
These countries, and the Comoros in particular, desperately require our presence.
The rebalancing of costs is not something which is new.
As indicated in the Council's conclusions of July 2004, this contribution must be fair, balanced and non-discriminatory.
Harmonisation of the 35:65 ratio in other fisheries agreements will be introduced in 2006.
On the point raised by Mrs Corbey, may I point out that all agreements are undertaken further to an assessment of the health of fish stocks.
In other words, the fish that can be caught sustainably, beyond what local fishermen can themselves catch.
In reply to Mrs Goudin, this agreement envisages a development segment under which the Union not only benefits from fishing rights but is obliged to assist in the fisheries sector of the Comoros.
This is a new element of the partnership agreements which is being introduced to all agreements with third countries. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
