The Presidency of the European Union strongly condemned the second round of voting as a denial of democracy immediately after it had taken place, that is to say on 29 June, and the Presidency stressed, in a fresh statement made on 4 July on behalf of the European Union, that it would not accept the fait accompli ensuing from the distorted ballot of 27 June, and that the only possible solution was a transition formula based on the results of the first round of voting.
It would be good for the African Union and the UN to be involved in this approach, with a view to supplementing the regional perspective of the SADC with an African and international perspective.
In our view, they must in any case be based on the results of the first ballot on 29 March, which constitutes the truest expression of the will of the people of Zimbabwe, while the second ballot was a denial of democracy.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy to be able to share with you today, in this exchange of views, future prospects and thoughts on the part we could play in supporting all the efforts to find a solution to the crisis which will be accepted by all the main political stakeholders, and above all a solution that has a prospect of lasting and which can open up a new era of prosperity for a country and a people who need it so much.
The African Union Summit that was held in Egypt and was attended by President Mugabe witnessed a very tense and passionate debate between African leaders, a debate that has been described by many as unprecedented.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, the situation in Zimbabwe has reached an absolute low in political, economic and humanitarian terms.
By SADC standards, even the parliamentary elections of 29 March were neither free nor fair.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, President Mugabe has employed unbelievable violence and demonstrated a scandalous contempt for the most basic human rights in seizing power and taking an already battered population hostage.
The Socialists condemn this violence and do not recognise the power in place as having any legitimacy.
Mr President, I should like to make one last quick point about the 200 000 displaced Zimbabweans.
At least 90 people have been killed since the first round of polling on 29 March and just this Monday residents were attacked and abducted from an IDP camp east of Harare.
Firstly, the EU can offer diplomatic support to those seeking to find a way forward via an interim transitional government involving all parties in civil society and respecting the results of the first round.
A transitional coalition is an African approach that has over the years worked in a number of other countries such as Togo and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Secondly, we must step up the pressure against Mugabe in the international community.
Mr President, the crisis in Zimbabwe did not burst suddenly on an unsuspecting world: this is the 16th time in eight years that we have debated a motion for a resolution on Mugabe as he has systematically and deliberately plundered his country, ruined the economy and oppressed the Zimbabwean people.
This, of course, should be based on the outcome of the elections of 29 March rather than the farce of 27 June, as both the President-in-Office and the Commission have indicated.
Mr President, I, like others, will have to comment on the fact that the Parliament which was duly elected on 29 March in Zimbabwe has never met and its elected members continue to be harassed and intimidated and suffer from violence.
All talks must be based on the outcome of the 29 March election which the MDC won and not on the sham run-off in June.
It must be a transitional arrangement designed to lead to a new constitution - nobody has mentioned that, and that is what Morgan Tsvangirai is calling for - followed by fresh elections.
As Geoffrey van Orden has said, there are no negotiations going on so we should not take heart from the current situation.
We in the international community must toughen our resolve against this tyrannical Mugabe regime.
The March elections were elections in which the opposition won a majority, and up to 17 July the parliament of that country had still to be formed.
The Zimbabwean people, Tsvangirai and the MDC deserve all our support and solidarity in these difficult times.
We could invite Morgan Tsvangirai to come to a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Development in July or September.
Morgan Tsvangirai and the MDC majority deserve not just words of comfort or any sort of consolation position but rather to be invested in office according to the results of the 29 March elections.
Together with the Commission, we shall be examining the situation in Zimbabwe at the next Council meeting on 22 July.
The vote will take place on Thursday 10 July 2008.
Written Statements (Rule 142) in writing. - The recent elections in Zimbabwe were a sham with Mugabe being the only eventual candidate, having intimated Tsvangirai and other members of the MDC to the point of withdrawal.
in writing. - The recent elections in Zimbabwe were wholly illegitimate and undemocratic, sparking widespread criticism and condemnation from the international community.
