Following the entry into force on 15 March 2001 of the three directives of the infrastructures package, which will have to be incorporated into the Member States' legislations from 15 March 2003, we must now complete the legislative framework in order to speed up the creation of a genuine European rail area.
I will firstly comment on the proposed amendment to Directive 91/440/EEC, extending access rights to infrastructure and freight services within the Member States, and to speed up the opening up of the market.
Over the last twenty years, the quota corresponding to this sector - within the overall distribution of goods transport in the Union - has been reduced by half, from 15% in 1980 to 8% in 1999.
Over this period, the quality of services provided to clients has not improved and in certain Member States it has worsened.
In practice, this total opening up of access rights in the field of freight would be effective by 2006, which would mean bringing forward this opening up to the whole network by two years.
The creation of an internal market in rail services would not be possible without the establishment of common safety rules.
Furthermore, the opening up of the markets and the end of the monopolies considerably modify such an important factor as the system of responsibilities in the field of safety, and it is therefore necessary to establish a coherent, transparent and clear framework which prevents any doubt in this area.
The safety directive focuses on four areas: the designation of national safety authorities, separate from the operators, with clearly defined responsibilities; the determination of the essential elements of safety systems in relation to the operator of infrastructures and rail companies and the establishment of a mechanism for determining and adopting common safety objectives and methods - a role to be played by the rail Agency; the establishment of a common system for the issuing, content and validity of safety certificates; finally, the introduction, as in other sectors, of the principle of independent technical investigations in the event of accidents.
The texts in question will be adopted by the Commission in accordance with a comitology procedure, as is currently the case in relation to interoperability.
Its main fields of activity will be as follows: the technical drawing up of texts planned for the directive on safety - common safety objectives and common safety methods - and for the directives on interoperability; the creation of a network of national safety and interoperability authorities; technical advice to the Commission and the national authorities on specific cases in the field of safety rules.
This Agency, which will be made up of some 100 people, will be responsible for promoting the work of the technical approximation of rail systems and will be independent, although it will work in close cooperation with experts in the sector.
Mr President, to conclude, the texts proposed intend, on the one hand, to ensure that 15 incompatible national systems develop technically towards an integrated and competitive European rail area and, on the other, to speed up the opening up of the market in freight transport, so that operators can provide effective services in any part of the Union.
This is an absolutely crucial point, because this is the only internal market that is actually still lacking in the transport sector.
By tabling these amendments we are seeking to hasten the revitalisation of the rail sector in the European Union.
By 2010 we want to bring the different modes of transport back into balance, which in practice means that we want to carry more freight by rail instead of by road and more passengers by rail instead of by air or road.
To achieve this objective of putting a larger proportion of the overall volume of traffic back onto the railways, we need to create appropriate framework conditions.
Finally, we need a European railway agency to energetically push forward all of these measures and monitor them.
We have made progress on interoperability, but too slowly.
At a conference, technical experts informed us that it would take 30 years to achieve interoperability, that is for trains to be able to use different networks without stopping.
However, we want the railways, and so all of us here need to energetically drive these measures forward, and that is why we need a European railway agency.
In an internal market for railways designed in this way, it will be crucial for modern, forward-looking railway undertakings to attract more freight and more passengers onto rail by providing services that customers want and that run on time.
If we continue to have the kind of planning system that we have today, which means that a railway undertaking cannot guarantee when a train travelling from Germany to Italy is going to arrive - there are hour- and even day-long delays - then rail is not going to be able to compete with HGVs.
I should like to make four brief comments on my report.
The Commission wanted to postpone the introduction of the special rail network for freight services in Europe, the so-called Trans-European Rail Freight Network, which the first railway package already states will come into being on 15 March 2003.
We are against this and think that we need this special rail network on 15 March of this year so as to gain experience of cross-border freight transport.
Secondly, we think that the aim set by the Commission of opening up the whole network to freight - both cross-border and national services - by 1 January 2006, as the Commissioner also indicated, should be clearly stated as from now, and not expressed as one-and-a-half years or two years after entry into force.
Thirdly, it is our view, Commissioner, that we also need to extend these rights to use rail for freight transport to other transport operators, not only the traditional railway undertakings or the new railway undertakings, but also the shippers and carriers.
We are proposing making it possible for cross-border passenger services to operate from 1 January 2006, like freight services, and national passenger services at a later date, from 1 January 2008.
Two final comments on the Sterckx report: I think that this report on safety standards is so magnificent that all I can say is that its main points go to the heart of the matter, in that it makes the provisions more precise and advocates a high level of safety in the interests of passengers and staff.
Finally, Commissioner, I hope that you agree with us that we should encourage the Greek Presidency actually to adopt the common positions in March so that we can move the procedure forward and perhaps conclude this chapter, on opening up the railways in the European Community, by the end of the year.
The railway companies are naturally responsible for what they do, and as a Parliament we are adding the infrastructure managers to this.
Everyone must know how things stand.
Secondly, we must have a common approach to safety, a common safety goal.
We will have to be as strict as possible in this regard, and the Commission must have the last word.
We must also - and I am somewhat more ambitious than the Commission in this regard too - establish a European objective, and we must state that our objective is to achieve one single set of European regulations.
All players must have a management system, and there must be common safety certificates for staff, for rolling stock and also for the infrastructure manager.
Thirdly, we must develop a common method of investigating accidents, investigating incidents, an independent investigative body and criteria that must be respected in these investigations.
The structure we are now setting up will also have to prove its soundness in practice, and we must ensure that we are flexible enough to acknowledge our mistakes and to do something about them if necessary.
Safety is also the work of man, and the people who are responsible for this work must be involved in the decision making.
The culture of the national monopoly is still very much in evidence and too often prevents Europe's railways from operating efficiently.
I am thinking, in particular, of the fact that the regulation outlined in the Markov report to be discussed this morning does not address the question of a limit on driving time adequately.
I would like to point out that my report is closely linked to the report on establishing a European Railway Agency.
Firstly, in order to achieve interoperability, I think it is absolutely essential to take full account of the skills and know-how of the professionals working within the sector.
The introduction of a recording device now has universal support and is included in my report.
Safety standards vary across the European Union.
Lowering safety standards to facilitate access to infrastructure would be counter-productive and even dangerous.
I am delighted that agreement has been reached on Article 29 of the Sterckx report, which promotes social dialogue.
To ensure consistency between the various reports and the unity of the package, I would like to propose three oral amendments which take account of the agreements reached on the Sterckx and Savary reports.
I would in addition like to express my opinion on the package as a whole.
The Jarzembowski report proposes the complete liberalisation of rail freight services by 2003, and of national passenger services by 2008.
I must say that I am concerned about the proposals aimed at speeding up liberalisation, following up those proposed by the Commission.
I do not however see why and how it should be deemed necessary to undertake the development of the rail network and opening it up to competition at the same time.
The Sterckx report on safety is also very important since, like the Commission, it is concerned in particular about the harmonisation of safety standards.
I would like to express my appreciation first to the four rapporteurs for their excellent work, and to all the political groups.
At present there are three solutions or approaches to this problem.
We should not fear opening up within the European Union.
I believe that safety must be an absolute priority, because a safety culture is crucial for the railways.
As regards the Sterckx report, a crucial document in my opinion, we must be fully aware that safety policy must not amount to a policy for diluting responsibilities.
Lastly, on my report relating to an Agency to harmonise rail safety, the competent committee has already voted on 48 amendments.
I am personally convinced that we will not be able to develop a European rail system if the players in the sector are not agreed on working together to develop it.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time transport policy was a poor relation in European policy.
Much ought to have been done here in the last few years and it still has not been done, including establishing genuine coordination between the Member States.
The results are as bad as you would expect, particularly between road and rail where the gulf is tending to widen in the absence of sensible joint solutions.
The European rail system and its connection to the system in the candidate countries, which will soon be members of this Union, needs to be revitalised and made to work; otherwise a lot more will go wrong on our railways and we will have even more problems than we do now.
Now what is at issue specifically in the Ainardi report, for which I was also responsible as shadow rapporteur?
We cannot concentrate, as we did originally, on individual parts of the network - high-speed lines and so forth - and treat them separately.
This means that we also want to make progress on research, so as to ensure that in the long term we arrive where we need to arrive, at a functioning European transport system.
Mr President, firstly I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their work in this very important area.
This is a difficult and complex subject not made any easier by the position that the whole railway industry finds itself in.
If you look at rail freight in Europe, for example, the drop in traffic is quite alarming.
If nothing is done, then within the next 15 years rail freight will not exist.
The industry itself has to recognise that its service levels have been unacceptable and Member States must also recognise that investment levels have been in decline for many years.
It is the inability of a train to cross borders without changing locomotives, changing drivers or even changing bogeys that is the problem for our railways.
A 40-tonne heavy goods lorry is fully interoperable.
Our main goals are to ensure higher levels of safety whilst fully integrating our European rail system.
We must get away from the 15 different systems I mentioned earlier; however, we must ensure that Member States have an input, and in those areas where higher standards exist we must insist that they are maintained.
I hope the Commission proposals and Parliament's response are seen by those in the railway industry as an honest attempt to ensure that Europe's railway industry has a future.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group I should firstly like to thank all the rapporteurs involved in the railway package.
This railway package will enable us to promote the competitiveness of the European railways, and improved competitiveness will mean that companies and the public will have the chance to utilise a more environment-friendly form of transport.
Our group believes, however, that the same principle should be followed regarding the composition of the Agency's administrative board as that which applies to the Maritime Safety Agency.
Travelling by rail is more environmentally friendly, but most of our railway networks date back to an era when we stayed within our own state boundaries much more than we do now.
Virtually everyone now agrees on the need for modernisation with trains that can travel on the other side of the border with the same carriages, the same crew, the same voltage and the same safety requirements.
This can be achieved quickly by improving cooperation between national railway companies or by merging large-scale and cross-border activities into one single European operation.
Regrettably this increase in scale is now being misused to force all the Member States of the European Union to allow other companies with private capital to access the railway network.
The additional costs for planning, supervision, safety and infrastructure are being paid by the government, in other words the taxpayer, and the financial benefits go to international companies.
Even before the compromise of the end of 2000 concerning corridors for goods transportation by other companies comes into effect, attempts are already being made to push through even more far-reaching liberalisation with the aim of putting international goods traffic first, then domestic goods traffic, then international passenger traffic and finally all traffic in the hands of companies that have fewer obligations to society as a whole.
The aim of all reforms must be to create a sustainable transport policy in Europe.
Liberalisation can sometimes be a means to achieving this, but never an end in itself.
The extremely poor situation in respect of maritime transport must indeed be a warning to us.
Freight traffic in Europe has become a problem due to the enormous increase in the number of lorries on our roads.
Indeed, we do not view liberalisation as an end in itself, and we are therefore not in favour of liberalising passenger transport.
Passenger transport by rail is a public service and must remain so.
International lines outside of the high-speed network are being cut back.
One example is the fast overnight connection between Brussels and Milan which, as my Italian colleagues know, has been scrapped as a result of competition from air travel, a mode of transport in which the environmental costs are not calculated into the ticket price.
The European Commission has done too little research into the consequences of liberalisation for rail transport.
We cannot make decisions on accelerating the pace of liberalisation of rail transport until such time as we have a clear picture of the impact this liberalisation will have on working conditions, safety, the environment, the effective improvement of consumer choice and the growth of the sector.
The three other reports closely reflect the problems and issues of the sector.
The era of containers being transported from the North Sea port to Northern Italy on trains crawling along at 18 km per hour must be consigned to history as soon as possible.
The free movement of goods was not organised in a sustainable way in the twentieth century.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are indeed some excellent sections in the reports on the development of rail transport we have before us.
As regards freight, the Commission has noted that the market share of rail freight transport in Europe has declined from 21% in 1970 to 8% in 1998.
The explanation lies in the fact that the major trunk routes used by lorries in France linking Mediterranean countries with Northern and Eastern Europe have now reached full capacity.
These lorries sometimes hog the carriageway for several kilometres and cause many accidents and traffic-jams.
The suffering endured by thousands of drivers who became stuck in their cars in temperatures of as low as -5° during the night from 4 to 5 January was certainly the result of snowfall, but it was mainly caused by the shortcomings of the motorway maintenance services and lorries stuck in the snow on the road.
If rail really wants to play a role in solving the problem of congestion in Europe, however, it is of vital importance that we not only open up international and national goods markets but cross-border passenger traffic as well.
The sector has suffered years of neglect in the hands of the various governments who controlled the railways - not the big international companies, Mr Meijer.
If we view the railway sector in the context of the agreements in the Lisbon Declaration which call upon us to become the most competitive region in the world by 2010, we have to achieve this, otherwise our hearts will be in our boots.
Everywhere there are different mains voltages, different railway gauges, big differences in signalling, different languages and safety requirements, locomotives that are not suitable for operating the other side of borders and that are twice as expensive because they have to overcome all these differences.
The Railways Agency's expertise and clear responsibilities are therefore very important.
It is therefore essential for the Agency to be able to operate completely independently and transparently.
In general, harmonisation of the safety regulations in Europe is very important for an efficient railway sector.
I am also pleased with the compromise on Article 3 that we were able to reach with the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party and the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, concerning the participation of employers' representatives from the sector in the working parties.
The restrictions imposed by the nation-states, and the fears that they still have, will - I hope - soon be consigned to the past.
Today, for various reasons, a large majority of us will go along with these proposals: firstly, because they are part of an overall agreement, as part of which we have also, particularly in the Savary report, obtained a series of provisions guaranteeing workers' rights and opportunities.
I have no fears in this regard, Mrs Peijs, but we certainly must focus on the working conditions and health and safety in the sector for the sake of those employed there.
Secondly, there are unfortunately a number of countries that are still very restrictive where market opening is concerned.
Many of these railway undertakings have not read the signs of the times; they have entered into cooperation with each other only to a very limited extent and only in some areas, for example high-speed trains.
The railway companies have either not recognised that nowadays transport services at least have to be European - which has of course long been the case for HGVs - or they have not done anything about it.
Mr President, Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, in particular on their close cooperation, because the interrelated nature of the package requires the reports to be relatively interdependent.
I would also like to mention that the committee of which I am chairman has worked well on this matter, as always.
It is no coincidence that, during 2002, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism initiated 34 reports in the transport sector, seven of which focused precisely on the modernisation of the railways.
It is quite clear, however, that the committee is concerned by certain delays in the Council and has made this clear in more or less formal terms.
The first railway package is closely related to the second railway package and, just like the carriages of a train, they must move forward, or else there will be a real danger of a kind of rail traffic jam.
The second railway package is important, and I would like to say that our approach is not an ideological promotion of the railways, of which we are sometimes accused.
In short, this report means more liberalisation for fewer jobs.
As for the report on safety, its main aim is liberalisation; safety is just an excuse.
The market and safety issues are however clearly incompatible.
Mr Jarzembowski was also talking about a balanced relationship.
In other words, we think that liberalisation is an excellent opportunity for goods transport.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a Liberal, I am very satisfied with the railways package and our four rapporteurs' reports.
The further liberalisation of Europe's oldest mechanised infrastructure, the railways, is an essential stimulus for a sector that is quickly losing ground in the European goods traffic market.
It is of vital importance - including for the sector itself - that we have more providers on the European railways.
From an organisational point of view, I would like the European Railways Agency to be coordinated with the European Maritime Safety Agency so that all these matters are organised independently, transparently, unambiguously and logically for all parties concerned.
After all, this is all about railway transport being integrated with society, integrated with roads and integrated with water in order to get products and goods from A to B more easily.
In my opinion, and since I am in favour of the liberalisation of rail transport, I am not sure that it is right to liberalise the infrastructures, that is, the railway lines.
And, in any event, I believe there must be an early assessment of the effects of liberalisation both in terms of safety, social and environmental repercussions, the effect on the interests of clients and users and on public service as well as the development of intermodality, and also its effect on the companies involved within the transport market.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at times in this debate you get the impression that we have been building a European Union for only a short time and are addressing issues that actually ought to have been dealt with long ago.
The national railway companies' actions in recent years have predominantly been characterised by the fact that they have continued to try to cordon off their markets, while at the same time coming to terms with the consistent and dramatic decline in their figures in the freight transport sector.
The only way of putting freight transport back on track at all is to ensure, firstly, that cross-border journeys can operate more smoothly in the future and, secondly, that the market is opened up and competition introduced, so that those who wish to offer attractive freight transport services have the opportunity to do so, and - so far at least -it has usually not been the national rail companies that have done this.
I can only say that those who are well intentioned towards the railways have to ensure that the rail systems are compatible across Europe, that the highest safety requirements are put in place and, in addition, they must ensure that the railways are customer-friendly, which means that they should be reliable, that they should have attractive services on offer and that they should stick to their timetables.
Measures in other areas - the Single European Sky to name but one example, when we wanted to have Europe designate airspace blocks in the future, because the national Member States had been failing to do so for decades - were repeatedly blocked by the Council, because they thought that all of this could be resolved bilaterally.
Consequently, I personally hope that this debate sends a very strong message from the European Parliament to the Council.
Mr President, all these reports on Community railways are part and parcel of the recent tidal wave of privatisation aimed at ensuring that not one public sector escapes the clutches of private capital, at the expense of quality, public safety and the cost of the services provided.
Accounting tricks and baseless arguments are being used to persuade us that, as with road transport, which contributes nothing to the infrastructure costs of the road network but is open to the private sector, we should allow the private sector to run down railway infrastructures and services which they have done nothing to create and which were and still are paid for by the taxpayer, in the name of free competition.
In the middle of a serious recession in the economy, in energy, in road, air and sea transport and in the environmental sector, big business has seen the potential in the railways for saving energy and cutting costs - and hence making a profit - and has turned its attention to rail transport and is trying to penetrate it ''as an equal partner'', although in practice there is nothing ''equal' about it in relation to the nationalised railway companies.
In other words, the Commission proposals - and unfortunately these reports go along with them - care nothing for quality, the cost of transport or the safety of users, all of which have been blown out of the water by the philosophy of unbridled competition and the profitability of capital, leaving the way free for private investors to ransack the profitable rail transport sector and dump responsibility for exorbitant infrastructure building and maintenance costs and the unprofitable side of rail transport on the public sector.
As you will have gathered, we totally oppose proposals for any moderate, calculated liberalisation of the railways because it paves the way for full liberalisation with all the adverse consequences that will have on the travelling public.
Everyone knows that private companies are only interested in their profits and will therefore cut back on investment or staff.
Everyone is aware that the privatisation of British Rail has led to a series of disasters.
Mr President, I had actually intended to say something completely different, but in the light of the last two speakers' comments I will digress somewhat and take up another point.
We have heard things said that actually belong in the past - in a past that is, thankfully, long gone - a time when all that mattered was intervention and the class struggle, when people tried to create confrontation.
History has condemned this approach and life punishes latecomers, as an extremely famous man once said, a man who had his roots in this system and then in the end also brought about its downfall because he knew it so well, I mean President Gorbachev.
We hope that these reports - and his in particular - will mean that we can take a substantial step in the right direction.
Mr President, we of course support all measures designed to enhance the role of rail transport and to change the present situation, which favours road transport.
It will not help at all to increase the flow of traffic by stimulating competition between the various operators if all the trains are forced to run on the same tracks, because that will simply lead to greater chaos and congestion.
Furthermore, we are against the total liberalisation of the freight and passenger transport sectors by 2008.
I will provide Parliament's Secretariat with a complete list indicating the Commission's position on each of the amendments, but I would nevertheless like to make a few comments in relation to our discussions and some general assessments of the amendments.
The Commission is not adopting any action of this type.
Ladies and gentlemen, some of you are concerned that there will be competition between the French operator - or the French operators, France will decide what to do - and the German, British or any other European Union operator.
And, if there are new operators - because the legislation in the different countries authorise this - that they fulfil suitable requirements to be able to operate throughout this rail network, and that they also compete.
We are talking about introducing rationality into the rail sector and turning it into a rail sector which is European and appropriate for the twenty-first century.
As Commissioner responsible for transport, I would like to thank the chairman and the entire committee once again for their understanding, support and cooperation in all our work.
The amendments presented deal with coordination in the time between the entry into force of Directive 2001/12/EC, on the first stage of the opening up to competition of goods transport by rail, which must be incorporated into the legislation of the Member States so that, from 15 March 2003, we have a starting gun for the whole of the European Union, with the supplementary stages we propose and, specifically, the incorporation of all the networks of the Union countries into a European network.
This opening up should therefore be considered not only from the point of view of the contracts signed by public administrations - something already regulated by the proposed regulations on public service obligations, which is still awaiting the decision of the Council, since Parliament gave its opinion on them some time ago - but also from the point of view of access rights and the protection of passenger rights.
Mr Jarzembowski, we cannot accept these amendments, because we are waiting to present a proposal this year specifically for passengers and which will deal in a coherent manner with the problem of opening up competition in the railways for the passenger sector.
However, we cannot accept either Amendment No 18 nor Amendment No 48, because they would be contrary to a clear distribution of responsibilities; we also have difficulties in accepting Amendment No 34, since we believe that it could considerably reduce the European scope of safety certificates.
I share Mrs Ainardi's view of the problem of investments, because all of this is going to require considerable investments on the part of the Member States of the Union.
Therefore, I am going to make an appeal in this regard, with a view to the post-Berlin financial perspectives, that the budgets for rail transport infrastructures be increased, in a plan to create the trans-European rail network, which requires a special effort.
Here also we can accept the majority of the amendments, but not all of them, since some of them are not in line with the principles.
We support all these amendments, in particular Amendment No 14, which we consider to be very positive.
I would like to conclude, Mr President, by once again thanking the four rapporteurs and the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism for the work they have done, and I would like to thank this Parliament for its support.
Following my conversations with the Greek Presidency, I am sure that under its mandate, and very possibly at the Council in March, we will have a common position from the Council, and I hope it will allow us, if not at first reading, at least at the second, to reach an agreement on this extremely important package.
The vote will take place at noon.
Decisions have chiefly been made at intergovernmental level, with each country trying to defend its own interests, and this has undermined the creation of a European railway market.
Furthermore, the problems of rail transport in the peripheral countries, such as Portugal, need to be taken on board in providing solutions at European level if the EU is to function as a whole and to be economically efficient.
So the Council must follow the lead of the European Parliament by showing the required political will and by finding the finance needed to create an internal European market in rail transport.
There are social consequences in relation to safety in the road transport sector, and I believe we must deal with them.
The proposal includes measures which will promote the efficient and uniform interpretation and application of the current rules, as stated in the White Paper, which will harmonise even further the competition conditions in the road transport sector.
Its aim is to simplify, clarify and update a piece of legislation which was approved 17 years ago.
In order to simplify these rules, we have had to reduce the degree of flexibility of the Regulation in force, complex rules on compensation for reduced rest periods have been eliminated and the duration of daily rest has been increased by one hour to 12 hours.
In order to update the rules, exemptions and exceptions have been reduced to the minimum and have been restricted to small and light vehicles, those used for short distances and those which offer a public service.
One of the main factors which has inspired this revision has been the increase over the last 17 years in the number of services offered by private companies.
In order to achieve this more effective application of the rules, the Commission wants to introduce certain new aspects into them, including the tightening of rules on the responsibility of companies and explicit provisions to facilitate the imposition of sanctions in a Member State on drivers who violate the Community rules in another State of the European Union.
Finally, in order to promote the constant clarification of the rules, a fruitful exchange of experiences and practices in relation to respect for them and active participation by all the Member States in the application of the Regulation, the Commission proposes the creation of an advisory committee made up of national experts from each of the Member States of the Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to sum up, this is our proposal, the fundamental intention of which is to improve compliance with the rules currently in force, to clarify their content, to increase responsibility and therefore to improve road safety.
I believe that a compromise between the groups has been successfully reached and that these three premises have been successfully integrated, although a few Members are proposing to reject the regulation.
One, the regulation applies to all drivers of vehicles carrying goods or passengers by road, regardless of whether they are employed or self-employed.
Four, the concept of the flexible week that has been newly introduced by the Commission has not been confirmed and instead we retain the calendar week as a basis because this is more practical and easier to monitor.
Six - this is a very important point and I hope that it will be retained - all courier and express delivery services, which have contributed to a sharp increase in accidents in the transport sector, are included in the regulation.
Seven, the daily rest period has been increased from the proposed 11 hours to 12 hours, although some flexibility is possible as it can be divided into two portions, of nine plus three hours, in a limited number of cases.
Twelve, it was possible to delete some of the very numerous exemptions and also introduce some necessary new ones, such as, for example, for vintage vehicles and vehicles for humanitarian services.
Despite this considerable number of positive changes - and the ones I have mentioned are just a selection - there are also passages which I and a large proportion of my fellow Members are still not happy with.
We are proposing a maximum weekly driving time of 45 hours, which is still considerably more than the number of hours worked in almost any other branch of employment.
Secondly, I hope, like many of my fellow Members, that the number of exemptions in this regulation will be reduced still further.
I know that this regulation does not fulfil all of the wishes of those affected, but I am convinced that the new legislation will increase road safety, improve the social conditions of those concerned, and that it will enable companies to do their job of providing high-quality transport services.
We are basically concerned here with three issues: health and safety in the working environment, road traffic safety and equal conditions of competition.
In the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, we have mainly confined ourselves to health and safety, but these issues belong together.
There is considerable agreement between the Council, the Commission and, I hope, also the majority in Parliament that this 18-year-old regulation now needs to be changed, partly as a result of digital tachographs now being used.
The big problem, and one of the reasons why change is required, is, in actual fact, the poor compliance with the existing regulation.
I wish therefore especially to draw attention to a proposal that is very important in the new regulation, namely that the Member States' supervisory authorities be able to take legal proceedings in cases of rest period infringements, even if the infringement has taken place in the territory of another Member State.
We have therefore tabled Amendment No 107.
Amendment No 110 is about the need not to remunerate drivers according to a pre-arranged distance to be travelled.
In conclusion, Amendment No 113 is aimed at requiring the two sides of industry at European level to carry out regular evaluations of this new regulation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank the rapporteur for his work, but also the other Members for the numerous coordination meetings.
The main issue raised in this context was the necessity of a new regulation.
In principle, however, the PPE-DE Group is in favour of amendment.
The aim was to strike a balance between road safety on the one hand and, on the other, flexibility in a profession where even today there are labour shortages right across Europe, perhaps because the conditions are unfavourable, but also because demand is very high.
All Members agree that we can adopt the best directives in the world here, but if there are no effective checks on compliance in the Member States then we will not achieve anything.
In addition, a report on implementation should be presented to Parliament at regular intervals, so that we, and also the Member States, can react in good time.
It must not be the case, as the French say, that, 'Celui qui triche gagne le plus d'argent', that is that those who do not comply with these directives make the most money.
That is precisely what we want to prevent: unfair competition at the expense of, amongst other things, safety.
The concept of safety should not mean that the regulation imposes restrictions on the people who are actually responsible for safety.
We also want to take account of those countries that are not in central Europe, because tomorrow, with enlargement, we have to bear in mind that the centre is going to shift and that it is not only going to be rest periods and driving times that will determine whether a haulage business is efficient or not.
We wanted a certain degree of flexibility here, to take account on the one hand of each driver's work rhythm but on the other of the needs inherent in the job.
Rest periods, daily rest periods and weekend rest periods are issues of safety and it is not unknown for overtired drivers to be involved in accidents.
Some statistics show the risk to be very high.
The initiative being taken here by the Commission and Parliament will, I believe, improve safety.
We should not become accustomed to them, however, because there are - as the statistics show - two main causes of accidents on our roads.
At present we have an average inspection rate of barely 1% and it is actually only possible to carry out real inspections, real checks, if both the roadside check on what the vehicle is doing and the check on the undertaking are done in tandem.
The fact that this allows a period of 28 days to be monitored in a roadside check will make a huge contribution to improving safety on Europe's roads.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, Helmut Markov, who has done a good job, was very willing to compromise and united us behind his proposals, and also the other Members who were shadow rapporteurs for this dossier.
He has done a thorough job and, furthermore, listened to those of us who have a different opinion with regard to this issue.
The new regulation will not improve road safety either.
Our group is proposing that we reject the Commission proposal and ask the Commission to carry out a thorough study of the need to change current rest periods, taking digital tachographs into account.
The basic idea behind them is that the provisions on rest periods in the current regulation are adequate provided that they are complied with and monitored effectively.
More effective monitoring will lead to better results than if the provisions are merely made more stringent on paper.
Assaults are one of the major problems encountered by drivers when they take rest breaks on European motorways.
I very much hope that the police would also increase the level of checks they made.
I must also say that I am very surprised that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is giving more consideration to the cost of equipping lorries than to the deaths of 40 000 people each year on European highways.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we adopt the Markov report today then this new legislation will not only interest those directly involved in the transport sector but millions of people in Europe, because this is also about road safety.
I think that both interpretations are in some sense correct.
Firstly, most of the current provisions can remain intact.
I therefore support most of the amendments aimed at reinstating the original text.
Secondly, we must tighten the provisions in respect of control and international coordination.
We therefore support the amendments that aim to achieve qualitative and quantitative improvement of the controls.
Mr President, I would like to focus my contribution to this debate on the essence of what the proposal means to people in my constituency.
This report, and the original proposal behind it, would have grave implications for business and individuals alike.
Indeed it seems to me that recent times have seen the transport industry being hit hard by piece after piece of excessive legislation.
The by-word seems to be: if it moves, regulate it.
I have to justify to my constituents the ethics of a report which originally sought to bind road rescue services and public utility vehicles - all absolutely essential to society - to strict new working hours.
Indeed the subsidiarity and extraterritoriality issues apparent in this report are clear examples of the report itself being over-extended.
As some honourable Members have said, lack of safety leads to 40 000 deaths and 1 750 000 injuries per year in the European Union.
And there is great consensus on the part of all the groups with regard to the need to achieve the objective of safety.
But here the differences begin, and we are producing proposals which will give the Council work, because the Council will have to take a position on many points on which in this House we are naturally not going to achieve unanimity.
There is a gremlin which creeps into all these debates and that is that sometimes this flexibility can be used by the transport company to counter the driver's capacity to decide.
If this were the case, the system of controls on companies would have to be extremely strict, since we are talking about risking lives, in particular that of the drivers themselves.
We are also talking about a very important European small or medium-sized enterprise, the transport enterprise, which we must promote and whose competitiveness we must defend.
I believe that this report has important objectives, but we must continue to work on it until we reach a consensus.
It is therefore important that the concept of driving time be defined as the period during which the vehicle's wheels are turning and that there be no confusion with the rules governing drivers' working time.
I want to warn against the proposals to change the present rules so as to extend rest periods because such changes could entail major expenditure without providing drivers with greater safety or better conditions.
That is because the quality of a rest is not necessarily directly proportional to its length, and it is also important that drivers themselves be able to organise their rest periods and choose where they are going to rest.
Everyone may agree that there are problems with the safety of transport on our highways, but that is not necessarily always because of unduly lax rules but, rather, because of inadequate checks and insufficient efforts to ensure that the rules are being complied with in practice.
Firstly, Amendment No 90 on the reduction of the 90-hour driving time over two weeks to 80 hours.
Secondly, the amendment concerning improving checks by linking the digital tachograph directive to this regulation.
As a result, national authorities, in their haste to conform with the requirements of the Commission in this area, will be neglecting other duties which are actually far more important.
This is simply not acceptable.
I also know, however, that cooperation often depends on personal input and sympathies and therefore still takes place on a relatively informal basis.
This difficult process must also be given more political support, and it is a pity that business must sacrifice flexibility for the sake of regulation, flexibility being the keyword in the sector.
The sector has always managed to make its way through the increasingly stringent requirements and the difficult market with great creativity, but when I look at the profit figures, I fear that even this creativity will miss the mark.
However, the Commission proposal contains a number of points which are also important for agriculture.
Imagine what this means in real life: tractors - and some are really very small - with tachographs, or the driver of a milk lorry, who goes from farm to farm and can no longer have his little chat (rest period) with farmer X because he has to respect a very particular sequence of driving times and rest periods, as if he were travelling from Rotterdam to Munich.
The current regulation, which provided for exemptions in the areas that I have mentioned, certainly did not penalise the weaker members of society, but it was practicable.
Thankfully my group has tabled amendments that mitigate some of these shortcomings in the Commission proposal.
I am talking about safety on our roads in the transport sector and, of course, distortions of competition.
In view of the large number of amendments proposed, I will present a list in writing to the Secretariat of Parliament indicating the Commission's specific position on each of them.
We will incorporate these suggestions into the proposal on road controls which we will present soon, bearing in mind that this is a different proposal - and this is my response to one of the speakers who referred earlier to this aspect.
We also accept the amendments which call for compatibility between the rules of the European Union and those of third countries and which call for the inclusion of smaller international transport vehicles in the legislation, especially those which provide courier services, as well as all those amendments which request a degree of flexibility in terms of permitting all existing practices which do not have a negative effect on the application of the Regulation.
Seventeen years have passed since the original Regulation entered into force and both the nature of the market and European realities and technological developments, specifically the digital speedometer, have developed and changed considerably.
The Commission will ensure a balance between flexibility and the control of application.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
I will therefore vote against amendments which seek to apply even greater reductions in driving time than contained in the Commission's proposal.
I hope that the final proposal in relation to drivers' working hours will recognise that some areas, such as the Highlands and Islands of Scotland, require a flexible approach to be taken and I hope that the Council and Commission will agree.
There are two amendments relating to the proposed new draft of Article 3 on the Agency.
My group opposes the oral amendments.
I am sorry, but having discussed these reports in detail in the committee and voted on them as a package, it is simply out of the question to untie that package by making changes at this stage.
That is why my group opposes all oral amendments to the Ainardi report.
In order to follow the procedures correctly, if 32 Members object when we come to the vote there cannot be an oral amendment.
Mr President, I indicated beforehand that I wished to raise a point of order before the vote on Amendment No 24.
I refer here to Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
Give us an opportunity actually to vote on the right to bring cases before the court, that is, on the original wording of Paragraph 8.
My information from the services is that, Mr Martin, you would have been correct yesterday morning to point out that Amendment No 24 was not available in all language versions.
Mr Tsatsos and I, in our report on the Treaty of Amsterdam, speak of the double legitimacy of States and peoples.
The concept of the people seems to us to be an archaic one.
We want to talk of citizens, because we want to bring Europe closer to the citizens.
They are often based in countries in the developing world or countries in the former Soviet Union.
For example, the Brazilian airline Varig flies people very cheaply between Amsterdam and Paris.
Barring these companies, however, is only part of the solution.
The low-cost airlines based inside the EU, like Ryanair, Easyjet, Virgin and Germanwings have been ignored.
In any case, Amendment No 62 (qualified majority in the Council) sets a higher standard for the imposition of measures in the area of services than in that of goods.
When determining where the Community interest lies, there is a departure from the original assumption that the imposition of measures is in principle in the Community interest, unless the opposite is established to be the case, in the sense that measures are imposed only when their application is in the Community interest.
I hope that these points can be examined closely during the remainder of the proceedings.
I voted in favour of this report concerning the Commission communication on the annual report on humanitarian aid in 2000-2001, because I agree with the rapporteur's diagnosis of the situation and also with many of her proposals.
One of our priorities should be to improve coordination of humanitarian aid and of aid providers so as to avoid the kind of situation that recently occurred in Angola when aid was 'guaranteed' but was very slow in coming through on the ground.
Moreover, there must be guarantees of safety, quality and social rights before railways can be purchased.
With this rail package the European Commission is proposing a new version of Directive 91/440, which seeks to increase the liberalisation of rail services, in particular for freight.
We did not have to liberalise rail passenger services to achieve cooperation between national operators in the case of Thalys.
We believe we should support the greater liberalisation proposed by the Commission, while rejecting the amendments establishing a specific timetable for the total opening of the market in rail passenger and freight transport.
Opening rail freight services within Member States, and accelerating the process of opening up the international ones, represent a significant step towards deregulating the railway sector.
The objectives set by the White Paper for European transport policy up to 2010, as well as the constantly increasing volume of traffic on Europe's roads, mean that absolute priority must be accorded to transferring goods traffic from road to rail.
The planned harmonisation of the European railway network is therefore to be welcomed, provided that a maximum of safety in rail travel can be guaranteed.
I voted for this report because I too believe that if we are to make the Community's railway system safer and raise the standard of international rail services, we need to encourage a progressive move towards a system of common safety standards in the Member States.
I have also been looking at some of the suggestions emanating from the relevant committee as regards the introduction of a safety certificate for train operating companies and for those responsible for infrastructure management.
It also suggested appropriate training leading to a qualification for railway staff, together with access to all information on safety for all new rail companies, and the adoption of a single working language for all international transport, as in the world of aviation.
The Sterckx report presents a vision of a standardised safety system achieved through harmonising rules and procedures and so on.
I therefore voted against them.
We do of course support the interoperability of the trans-European rail system and some of the measures proposed in this report.
The measures relating to interoperability are however contained in a rail package which propounds extending competition to the rail transport sector and opening it up to privatisation.
We therefore abstained from the vote on this report.
Her report is part of a 'rail package' that seeks to promote the development of the rail sector through the creation of an integrated rail system.
Until now, the fact that different countries have very different specifications and technical standards, that are often incompatible, has created difficulties in using rail transport.
We must also make it necessary to assess the expected benefits of each and every proposed TSI in terms of market share, traffic growth, environmental concerns, safety standards and social issues.
I therefore think that the idea of setting up a European Railways Agency is a very important one; this agency would work with the Commission to promote greater cooperation and coordination between the various stakeholders involved in rail policy and the operability of the railway system, whilst also making an ongoing contribution to the debate through its recommendations and opinions.
Still on this subject, I would like to mention the White Paper European transport policy for 2010: time to decide which refers in various places to the need to reverse the trend away from rail and towards road transport.
Why do we not organise pension years in the same way as we regulate the daily working hours: ten years of work and then five years of pension, then another ten years of work and five years of pension, then another ten years of work and five of pension?
If our rapporteur had read these articles, he would surely also be astonished, as, out of the 269 amendments with which the committee had to get to grips, a mere 16 originated from the Greens, and - thank God - 14 of those were voted out.
It takes a certain kind of sheer nerve to muster the whole of Luxembourg's press in order to give them to believe that this report would bear the stamp of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, whereas it in fact saw the light of day in consequence of an agreement between the rapporteur and the three largest groups in this House.
A solution as inflexible as this one would in fact not permit those who have to drive at a great distance from their base to apportion their rest periods in such a way as to allow them to spend more time with their families and friends.
This report includes in particular the improvements made by the new regulation to the current situation, with the dual objective of increasing road safety and improving working conditions for drivers.
Measures such as removing the possibility of dividing breaks, extending scope, increasing penalties for infringing the regulation, which are measures that appeared in the Commission proposal and are reiterated in the report, represent important milestones.
The Markov report reinforces the regulation further, for example, by opposing the creation of a flexible week through the introduction of a limit on working time, by setting a fixed driving time or encouraging the participation of the social partners.
It is sickening, however, that a text entitled 'social legislation' would allow drivers to work 56-hour weeks.
Furthermore, we feel it is unacceptable to make the situation worse in countries with higher levels of protection in order to improve it in others.
The only acceptable form of harmonisation would standardise social protection and working conditions to the highest level.
We are particularly concerned about the effect that these measures would have on minibuses operated by the voluntary and non-commercial sectors.
The British Government has described many of these proposals as being either unnecessary or disproportionate to any benefit.
The report rejects provisions concerning the flexible week, increases controls and penalties in cases of non-compliance with the provisions of the regulation, and increases the participation of social partners.
Our concern is not to prevent distortion of competition with third countries, but to guarantee lorry drivers the best pay, status and working conditions.
It is insufficient to reduce the weekly driving time, which is currently set at 56 hours, to 45 hours.
That is why, although we are in favour of progressive social measures, we did not, in the end, vote for this report.
What is more, drivers want to be protected against overworking and overtiredness, but they also want to get home quickly after a long trip.
Self-employed drivers even believe that they are exempt from the regulations, and businesses who want to exploit this have sold their lorries to their drivers.
Getting all lorries and courier services that drive within the EU, even those driven by self-employed drivers or those from outside the EU, to comply with the standard of not less than 12 hours' rest a day and working not more than 9 hours a day and 90 hours over two weeks is therefore an important step in the right direction.
The report we have now approved considers measures that are undeniably positive: removing the proposal for a flexible week; imposing limits on driving time and working hours; setting a minimum age for drivers engaged in the carriage of goods; limiting possible derogations; increasing the involvement of Europe's social partners; and encouraging the extension of these regulations to cover all drivers on the EU's roads.
The Napolitano report may well have needed more genuinely federalist solutions, taking the principle of subsidiarity to its most far-reaching, logical conclusion: this is a goal to be achieved in the coming years.
The Napolitano report takes that principle and moves it forward in the context of today's Europe.
I support that argument, but each Member State must do that in the context of its own constitution.
Finally, the one weakness in the Napolitano report is that it has not given enough emphasis to the role of regions with legislative authority.
It is recognised that, in appropriate constitutional circumstances, regions will have access to the Court of Justice.
In future, for example, it seems probable that there will be five Members from Malta in the Committee of the Regions, as against 21 from Spain and 24 from the United Kingdom.
The balance of populations and regions on the Committee of the Regions is not at all a reasonable one.
Already, since, in my dream, a single world government had been established made up of the regions, the individual States no longer existed and the regions had assumed such importance as to form, all together, a worldwide association, the WUR - the World Union of Regions - with Mr Napolitano as President.
I therefore voted for the motion.
Mr President, I, like many other Members, found it impossible to vote against the resolution arising from the Napolitano report, because the report, first of all, and then the resolution, are innovative texts with regard to the regional dimension.
Mr Méndez de Vigo replied that the concept of 'people' was outdated.
Surprisingly enough, however, the text, which is presented as forward-looking, has the effect of strengthening the concept of States within the Union, which I am sure was the desired objective.
I hope that the Commission and the Member States take into consideration many of the points adopted, although I must lament the fact that some fundamental parts have been rejected, such as those providing for the participation of regions with legislative powers in the European Union's Council of Ministers.
I feel that this is an area in which, in any case, it is for the Member States to decide.
My political party has already supported amendments and legislative proposals to that effect in Italy, and I hope that the European regions will be able to have more influence, notwithstanding the fact that this matter must continue to be the competence, for the most part, of the individual States, without interference from the Union.
Mr President, we believe that the European Union is at present an historically unprecedented union of shared sovereignty, and the stateless nations, such as Galicia, want to make progress through their participation in these institutions, and are even working towards a kind of internal enlargement.
We were given a foretaste of these at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which voted, probably swept along by its own momentum, for strange provisions, such as the right of regional and local authorities to adapt European legislation according to local needs.
Naturally, the committee members who voted for these provisions were then disowned by their groups, and Parliament has just made corrections in plenary.
The rest, which bypasses the Member States more insidiously, has been retained.
These mistakes have simply brought to light the direction this report would take if it were implemented.
It is therefore difficult to design political forms of cooperation within the EU when it comes to the role of the Committee of the Regions and to that of the regional and local authorities.
The Committee of the Regions lacks democratic legitimacy, and we believe it should be phased out, not developed.
With the democratic deficit in today's EU, it is more important first and foremost to develop the role of the national parliaments.
Thirdly, nor are these regions explicitly guaranteed the right to participate in Councils of Ministers which deal with matters falling within their competence, leaving this capacity to arbitrate to the respective governments whose lack of political will in relation to this issue is, in the majority of cases, including Spain, notorious.
The Napolitano report, however, still contains some very positive aspects and I have therefore decided to vote in favour of it tomorrow.
For the same reason, we think it is important that there should be a forum at EU level, and indeed one already exists, the Committee of the Regions, for exchanging experience on the work of these authorities and to provide them with a means of presenting their views at EU level on matters relevant to them.
I particularly support the need for the Union to find new ways for regional and local authorities to participate in Community activities without neglecting the important role of the Committee of the Regions.
I also very much support the need to ensure that regional and local authorities are involved when Community policies and legislative acts are being conceived and drawn up, as it is most often those authorities that are responsible for implementing such policies and acts.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that the hierarchical and pyramid-like structure of the EU's institutional system should be abandoned in favour of a system involving regional and local authorities more in Europe's decision-making process.
I was therefore forced to vote against the report, despite the fact that it included some positive proposals such as the defence of linguistic diversity and the promotion of the outermost regions.
I generally support the diagnosis contained in this report concerning the clearly diverse nature of regionalisation and of the very concept of a region, just as I support the view that regionalisation has 'to a large extent been the result of institutional and political developments specific to each of the countries concerned'.
Although I agree in principle about the effective existence of different traditional and specific administrative approaches in each Member State, I part company from the report when, politically speaking, it tries to relegate the Member States to a subordinate role, encouraging interference in the Member States' decision-making processes, promoting their legal and institutional fencing-in with powers being assumed by the European institutions and the regions, and advocating that the political legitimacy of the regions should be artificially equated with that of the Member States in the Treaties.
I accordingly voted against the report.
It is very positive that, in recital G, the European Parliament clearly states 'that the protection and strengthening of regional and local autonomy in the various European countries represents an important contribution to the process of European integration based on the principles of democracy, proximity and decentralisation of power'.
Because I have for a long time advocated this on the basis of my local authority experience, I sincerely welcome the fact that the report also requires that a well thought-out European constitution should define in what way the principle of subsidiarity is to be exercised, applied and monitored.
It is sensible for a tool to be made available to local authorities and to districts/regions/constituent states, enabling them, via the relevant Member State or the Committee of the Regions, to require the EC Court of Justice to examine whether the EU has exceeded its powers.
Mr Provan conspicuously disregarded my request for the floor, even though I was the first to make such a request.
Mr Provan said in a way that he knew what I wanted to talk about and that consequently he had decided, since he did not agree with my first speech, not to give me the floor.
I should like, on behalf of the House, to acknowledge that Prime Minister Simitis took the time in December, before the formal launch of the presidency, to meet with the Conference of Presidents of Parliament.
The Greek Presidency plans to cooperate with Parliament to the maximum possible extent at all levels.
Greece is one of the countries which believes that developing the European Union will help to strengthen the role and authority of the European Parliament.
The presidency's programme has not been planned solely to meet the challenge of the ongoing development of Europe; it has also been planned to meet the challenge posed by today's international economic climate, the global recession and all the sources of insecurity waiting to ambush our societies: the lack of competitiveness and stability in the economy, unemployment, social exclusion and so on and so forth.
We need to continue with all the basic, procedural arrangements so that the accession treaties can be signed in Athens on 16 April.
Your role is paramount in these arrangements because the European Parliament has to assent to the accession of the new Member States.
At the same time, we shall continue negotiations with Bulgaria and Romania in application of the new pre-accession strategy for these two countries.
Our aim is to keep to the timetable for their accession in 2007.
Greece believes that Turkey should take its place in Europe on the basis of the decisions already taken by the European Councils.
We must give Turkey the opportunity to carry out the reforms its country needs.
The next two years will be crucial here.
Greece, both as the country holding the presidency and as a Member State, wants to help with this new process, which is why one of our objectives is to draft a new partnership agreement with Turkey.
We have been working along these lines and we hope that a solution will be found by 28 February.
The spring summit in 2003 will be held in a political and economic climate beset with both problems and opportunities.
First, macro-economic policy; we want a reliable European economic policy, an intergovernmental economic policy in Europe.
Secondly, we want to create more and better jobs.
It is important that we review the European Employment Strategy and a debate on the subject will allow us to make more of the social pillar in the Lisbon strategy.
Our third aim within the Lisbon framework is to encourage entrepreneurship and support small enterprises.
The presidency sets great store by support for entrepreneurship, which is important to economic development, not to mention employment and regional development.
Our fourth aim is to build up the European economy of knowledge and innovation, because we cannot achieve the Lisbon objectives unless we develop knowledge and technology.
The presidency will also be tackling other issues, such as developing research in cutting-edge technologies, including defence research.
Our sixth aim is to safeguard future prosperity through sustainability.
The second strand in our action on immigration will be to protect the Member States of the European Union from illegal immigration, share out the costs of protecting our common external borders more equitably, promote repatriation policies and speed up negotiations on readmission agreements.
As you may remember, the Copenhagen European Council decided that the Convention should complete its work before the European Council in June and that, at the spring European Council, we should focus on the institutional aspects of the future of Europe.
Secondly, we intend to hold a substantive debate on the outcome of this work at the June Council and set the starting and/or the finishing date for the work of the new Intergovernmental Conference, because some Member States have already expressed a wish for an interim period and we will need some time between when it starts and the June summit.
Our fifth set of priorities concerns the Union's international profile and strengthening its role on the international stage.
We therefore intend to concentrate on achieving the general military objective and finalising permanent arrangements for collaboration between the ?U and ????.
Iraq has to respect and apply Security Council resolutions.
The presidency wants to speak for Europe as a union of countries with a common, strong voice and opinions.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to finish by commenting briefly on two or three matters of particular interest to the European Parliament.
Secondly, the interinstitutional agreement on improving European Union legislation, which has done a great deal to improve the quality of legislation.
We want to strengthen every aspect of the Union and convince our citizens that Europe is close to them, that it embraces them all in a society of values and that it offers everyone a common future.
Prime Minister, in setting its priorities for the first six months of the year, the Greek Presidency has shown that it is keenly aware of the major challenges before us.
Before us is a unique opportunity, a huge presence of European countries in the Security Council, a European Presidency, and, most importantly, we have a public opinion which is deeply disturbed and concerned to see what war might involve and, in particular, what the consequences of war might be.
I would now like to mention briefly the fact, following on from what Prime Minister Simitis said, that the Spring Report, the Commission's contribution to the work of the Spring Council, was adopted by the institution today and will therefore play a major part in the work of the Greek Presidency.
We also adopted a number of related documents, most noteworthy being the report on the implementation of the broad economic policy guidelines and the general principles of a new European Employment Strategy.
The Spring Report is a general report which does not just outline our programme but enters into specific aspects of it.
It is the best way of delivering what concerns our citizens most - greater prosperity, better jobs, greater social cohesion and a cleaner, sustainable environment - and it is the only way of making sure that these are achieved sustainably for future generations too.
The Spring European Council must drive forward this process in the face of the two-fold challenge of enlargement and, in particular - and this is the real problem - the continuing deterioration of economic conditions.
The Lisbon process is already starting to bear fruit.
Thanks to the combined efforts of Parliament, the Commission and the Council, this gap has now been reduced.
However, a similar gap is now forming in the area of the transposition of Community directives and decisions into Member States' law.
Thus, the problem of the practical implementation of these decisions is still partly to be resolved.
On the other hand, it is encouraging to see that there are Member States meeting and even exceeding many of the Lisbon objectives.
These countries are a benchmark of world-beating performance and prove that the right policy mix can bring development on all fronts: economic, social and environmental.
The unsatisfactory performance of some countries is holding back the overall development of the Union.
This is why coordination at Community level is vital to encourage all the Member States to work towards the objectives that are in their own interest as well as in the interest of all the other Members of the Union.
We have made it our priority for this year.
I have to say that this observation is a result of an analysis of the policy - implemented, in some cases against their will, by some of the Member States as a result of the restrictions - to reduce, in accordance with budgetary requirements, in some cases even because of the limits we ourselves have imposed, research expenditure first of all.
If we look at the policy of many of the Member States, this has been the result, with a shift away from the 3% we set out in the major objectives of the Lisbon process.
I am speaking so emphatically, if you will, because remarkable things are happening in the world.
Asia's capacity to absorb new technologies, the growing dynamism of the international markets, the market shares of many European countries which are eroded every year: all this means that the problem facing us is no longer theoretical but a question of our future survival, of the future balance of our economy, of preserving our wealth.
It is vital that we promote research into world-beating products and clean technologies, and we must help businesses turn knowledge into commercial opportunities.
In my opinion, it is at precisely this last step - converting discoveries into innovation and exploiting them commercially - that European businesses fall down.
Although the Union has made progress towards a knowledge-based economy and an analysis of the past three years is not discouraging, the fact remains that others are moving even faster and it still lags behind its main international competitors in terms of investment and performance.
We still have far fewer researchers than the United States or Japan.
Significantly and surprisingly - and I will give you just one statistic for this is not a theoretical discussion: we are here to take decisions - our largest companies are carrying out 40% of their research activities outside the Union.
Clearly, we must invest in the future.
We must be better coordinated and set more ambitious national targets in the fields of education, research and innovation, and we must do more to share our best practices.
Great emphasis has been placed on the fact that, after enlargement, these countries - those which have actually entered, having been given the political green light - will make up 20% of the population but only provide 5 or 6% of income.
In this connection, the Commission will be launching an action plan for research and development.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have clear responsibilities towards our present and future citizens and towards the whole world in this field.
We set ourselves the target of creating a competitive, knowledge-based society based on sustainable growth.
On our success will hang the future of the European social model too.
We do not believe we can achieve the goals Commissioner Diamantopoulou and I set ourselves so carefully, the goals behind all politics such as social equality and class promotion - we do not believe we can do it without a knowledge-based society.
It will also, therefore, determine our ability to honour the international commitments we made at Monterrey, Doha and Johannesburg and to implement policies which can secure peace and stability in the world.
We have achieved many goals and I know that we will continue to do so in the future, but I implore you to understand that this matter of centres of scientific excellence, of a research effort, of rules to attract laboratories, the centres of innovation, to Europe, of becoming once again the catalyst and centre of culture and science, as Europe has always been throughout the centuries, is vital for our future.
I believe it is our duty to restore to them these options, these opportunities, for they are entitled to them and we need them too.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, our group, that of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, wishes the Greek Presidency every success ...
We think it is particularly splendid that the treaty with the countries that are to join the EU should be signed, on 16 April, in front of the Acropolis or in its immediate vicinity, that being a symbolic expression of the fact that it is at the site of democracy's foundation, Athens, that we are giving the green light to the membership of the Central European countries that have achieved democracy after the horrors of the Communist era, and before that, the years under National Socialism.
Mr President, we are of one mind with you as far as a peaceful solution to Cyprus is concerned, and also as regards the pre-accession strategy for Bulgaria and Romania, and we have an urgent request to make of you in connection with the Balkans.
I regard this as unacceptable, and we have to give the countries where these people live a chance of development - not only in the context of immigration policy, but as part of helping the countries of the Mediterranean to help themselves.
There are two important foreign policy issues, Mr President-in-Office of the Council; Iraq is one of them.
We must see that weapons of mass destruction are a menace and that, when they threaten us or regions of the globe, those who have them at their disposal, must relinquish them, but what we do and have to do, we do within the framework of the United Nations.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you mentioned cooperation with Russia, and in May of this year you will be travelling to a meeting in St Petersburg.
Mr President, I welcome the way you have often encouraged us by referring to our values, but we will gain credibility only if we lay hold of these values not merely for ourselves in this wonderful European Union, which, taking everything into account, is democratic and in a good position both economically and in terms of human rights, but also for the people on our doorstep and throughout the world.
It is a fortunate coincidence that enlargement to ten is going to be signed in Athens, the cradle of democracy; and in a country such as Greece, which will hold the next Olympic games.
During this six months, we must finish the first phase of enlargement: the ten countries.
And you have also mentioned some other important challenges.
Furthermore, and you have mentioned this, for the first time, you have in your hands -and I welcome Greece's intelligent and courageous policy in relation to Turkey - the opportunity to play an historic role in terms of bringing us closer to Turkey.
In this regard, I would like to say that it is important that we increase our economic coordination.
In the economic chapter, the Greek Presidency has dedicated a section to maritime security, and following the drama we are witnessing of globalised shipwrecks, which are desolating our coasts - the Prestige being just one more, not the only one - I believe that the Greek Presidency must play an important role.
In terms of the policy on the third pillar, especially on immigration, the Greek Presidency is the first, since Tampere, to propose a proactive policy and not just a repressive one.
In this regard, you can rely on Parliament in terms of the proposals you are going to make and I believe that, in this field, the Greek Presidency is showing the right way.
With regard to the future of Europe, the Convention has passed its half-way point - as President Giscard d'Estaing reminded us in an article which has appeared today in the press.
Under the Greek Presidency, we want the Convention to prepare a draft Constitution.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you must defend the Community method, which has allowed us to come this far, and which can inspire and organise our future.
You have a very important job: to coordinate four members of the Security Council, plus one candidate, and everything possible must be done so that, within the multilateral and civilised framework of the UN, we can make progress and prevent a war which is not only unnecessary, but also extremely dangerous, and so that we can impose the principles of international law.
In this regard, Mr President-in-Office, and I will end here, please also continue an active policy in the Middle East.
It is very important, everything is related, and you are our border with that region.
The Greek Presidency will have a key role in the birth of a reformed and enlarged European Union.
Nine out of ten of the new countries will have referenda between March and September this year.
Time is short, but recent developments, both on the island and in Ankara, have created a window of opportunity and I hope that you, Mr President-in-Office, will work with all parties to craft a compromise.
The continued economic slow-down is making structural reform more, not less, urgent and governments should not be deflected from the goals they set themselves.
Europe is of course though far more than a common market and your presidency recognises this.
Exposed as you are on Europe's southern and eastern flanks, you see the importance of understanding a little more and condemning a little less.
I had a great deal to say about Iraq and the Middle East peace process as well, but my time is running short.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, it is to you, Mr President of the Council, that I wish to express my group's emphatic support for your initiative towards resolving the hostilities with Iraq by diplomatic means.
There must be no war with Iraq.
The public do not want one, and this is where the EU - as many Members of this House have said, and this is something I want to endorse - must put all its political weight into the balance, and it must be united in doing so.
Statements, such as that made by the German ambassador to the UN, to the effect that no second resolution by the Security Council would be needed to give legitimacy to an attack on Iraq by the USA, are counter-productive.
The social pillar does indeed need to be strengthened to a perceptible degree, the EU must give its attention to the public's concerns and needs, and, above all else, press on with effective measures to counter mass unemployment and social exclusion within its borders.
Let public investment at last be removed from the Stability Pact's calculation basis, preventing a socially irresponsible policy of cutting back until there is nothing left from making a difficult economic situation even worse, or even - as President Prodi has just warned us - leaving education utterly unable to compete.
If we want a UN position, we must also say what must be decided at the Security Council; we cannot always hide behind the Security Council without specifying what it should decide.
If the secret services have proof, they should announce it in all the newspapers.
If he has weapons, he knows where he is hiding them, and if the CIA or the other secret services know where these weapons are hidden, we can tell the world, since, in any case, the enemy already knows.
We must have the courage to say what we expect from the Security Council and I believe the European Union has a decisive role to play in this regard.
Today, however, all those who said 'yes' to intervention in these two cases must say 'no' to pointless intervention.
The European Union must have the strength to impose a 'no', at precisely the moment when North Korea has weapons of mass destruction, when it could make an atomic bomb, and yet we are, quite rightly, going to negotiate with it.
I would now like to address the matter of the Spring Summit and sustainable development.
I agree, but what are the relevant indicators with regard to the environment, the economy and social issues?
By way of an example: EUR 11 million were paid out by those responsible for the Erika.
You know what I am talking about, since Greece is one of the countries that has the most responsibilities in this sector.
I therefore believe that together we must all have the strength and courage to provide a future for people who want this future.
The Greek Government is assuming the presidency of the European Union at a time of great international uncertainty.
UN inspectors in Iraq are due to report back to the United Nations Security Council at the end of the month with their findings as to whether or not Iraq is in possession of weapons of mass destruction.
No one can judge what will be in this report, but the military build-up of American and British troops in the Middle East is certainly an ominous sign that conflict in Iraq is a very real possibility.
I welcome the recent comments of Prime Minister Simitis, when he stated that the United Nations is the forum that must be used to address the issues raised in the UN inspectors' report on Iraq.
International global security is best dealt with multilaterally under the auspices of the UN, not unilaterally, and I welcome the objective for Prime Minister Simitis to secure a common European Union position on Iraq when the UN inspectors' report is published.
This is certainly a very ambitious political objective but I fully support it and I am sure the majority of Members of this House do as well.
The European economy is not performing very well at present and the Greek Presidency is correct to accelerate the Lisbon Process.
We need to make European businesses more competitive; more support mechanisms must be put in place to assist small- and medium-sized enterprises.
The Greek Presidency is also making illegal immigration in Europe a priority.
Certainly we are going to have to reform under the EU Convention how we legislate for issues such as immigration, asylum, refugees, displaced persons and European visas.
As has been mentioned, the Convention will now be reporting to European governments during the Greek Presidency of the Union.
As a result of the decisions taken at the Copenhagen Summit last December, accession treaties for the new Member States joining the Union are to be signed on 16 April.
It is very clear that there are wide-ranging and diverse issues that will have to be addressed by the Greek Presidency of the European Union.
The spectre of a conflict in Iraq hangs over us all like the sword of Damocles and that is something that we all need to have in mind.
In conclusion, I wish the Greek Presidency every success and would like to say, on behalf of my political group, that we will be more than willing to cooperate with them fully in the interests of the European Union as a whole.
Mr President, kalispera, the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities would also like to welcome the Greek Presidency.
After all, Greece is, more than any other country in Europe, best placed both from a political and historical point of view to use the presidency to readdress the issue of the absurdity of Turkey's candidature.
To give this country a prospect of acceding to the European Union is, however, complete madness.
The Greek Presidency is being given an historic opportunity here.
If you do not, my party in Flanders will turn the European elections in 2004 into a referendum on Turkey's accession.
It is striking that the German Christian-Democrats are also more or less announcing the same thing.
If the Greek Presidency fails to take this opportunity - which will probably be the case - you will be taking on a very great responsibility, and the Turkish question may become a divisive element that could bring the house of Europe crashing down around our ears.
I have a particular interest in that as the Parliament's rapporteur for the internal market strategy: if all goes well my report will be voted on in February and will be presented to you as a basis for action in the Economic Summit.
I want to ask you, President of the Council, to put on your agenda a determined effort by all Member State governments to clear out the difficulties of establishing businesses across the European Union.
Mr President, my thanks go to Greece for an excellent presentation and for highlighting some delicate matters.
Recently, actually since the autumn, it has been mainly the issues of enlargement and the Convention that have been the focus of attention at EU level.
Mr President, resolution 1441 firstly calls for effective weapons inspections in Iraq, and secondly for the discussion of the weapons inspector's report in the Security Council at the end of January, and only thereafter for any new steps to be taken.
At this historic moment our Group of the Party of European Socialists is asking the Greek Presidency to clearly state that this is also the position of the European Union.
We must do our utmost to prevent war in Iraq and at the same time engage in serious peace negotiations in the Middle East.
Europe must not hesitate to deploy all its diplomatic and economic resources to achieve this.
Maximum pressure should, of course, be brought to bear on Saddam via the Security Council, but we must also make every effort to prevent war.
We call on President Bush to take the desire of our peoples for peace seriously and not to sow dissent in the international coalition against terrorism, and therefore to fight together for a peaceful and a more stable world.
A military conflict will completely wipe out any hope of combating poverty, hunger, child malnutrition and the lack of medical care; these are the problems which the millions of people who are victims of an autocratic regime and a harsh western policy have to live with.
We all know that Greece is a relatively small country.
However, the previous presidencies held by the same party, PASOK, when Andreas Papandreou was prime minister, did leave us one useful legacy: a fighting stance, which often went against the grain, on the question of peace.
I trust that this positive trend, which is demonstrated both by our country as a whole and its ruling party, will continue today, especially on the question of Iraq.
With four members in the Security Council, the European Union should be fighting to block a war.
A second point which worries me is that agricultural policy - and I am thinking here of small family-run holdings, especially in the south, being squeezed by reforms and by what is happening in the World Trade Organisation - warranted no more than one line at the end of the prime minister's speech.
Mr Prime Minister, I am waiting for Greece to apply Directive 70/1999 on fixed-term work.
It should have started applying this directive on 10 July 2002 but has yet to do so.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I would like to raise two points which, I would say, concern me, in your statements.
The first, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is that you have not really developed your project on maritime safety.
I hope that we will not have any unpleasant surprises, since, as you know, European citizens in both Galicia and France are impatiently, not to say desperately, waiting for Europe to come to their aid, to establish strict rules, clear rules, to ensure safe maritime transport and to prevent pollution.
The second subject that concerns me is the Spring Summit.
There again, it is with regret that I would like to say - and I am also addressing the President of the Commission - that you are missing the point, because the Spring Summit had a specific aim, to measure progress made or ground lost in the field of sustainable development through the policies of the Union.
This is the opposite of sustainable development.
What I would therefore like your spring reports to do is present genuine policies which take account of the environment in order to avoid destroying it and which also create truly sustainable jobs.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, you, Mr President of the Council, concluded your remarks with a brief discussion of European defence policy.
That you should do so is made all the more important by the powerful impression that the United States of America takes a different view, and we do indeed need to state what our differences with them are.
This is where the European Union has to state its position in clear terms, the primary reason for this being that international law cannot be enforced in an arbitrary and opportunistic way.
I make this appeal as someone who has spent his whole life in agriculture and rural development in one way or another.
In the context of the mid-term review proposals due to be adopted this week and the forthcoming world trade talks, I appeal to the Greek Presidency to work towards continued commitment at EU level for the European agricultural model and to guarantee a decent livelihood for our farmers.
Unless we address the very serious problem of the declining age profile in European agriculture, in the not too distant future Parliament will be sitting in an emergency session to address what has turned out to be a very serious problem.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, taking the helm of the European Union for six months is a major challenge for any country, and that is true, Mr Simitis, of your Greek Presidency as well.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, it is only right that much should have been said about Iraq, which is very much a live issue.
This leads me to see it as important that the Greek Presidency, and of course the EU as a whole, should send out signals to the Balkan countries to the effect that a way is open for them to join the European Union, a difficult and lengthy way though it may be.
These countries need to know when they are moving closer to the European Union, when stagnation is setting in, and when, indeed, their progress is being set back.
All the forces in these regions need to know that the chance of moving closer to the European Union is there, but that we will monitor, very closely and country by country, whether real use has been made of these opportunities.
Mr President of the Council, I believe that, one day in the distant future, Saloniki may well mean for this region what Copenhagen - by which I mean the 1993 Copenhagen Council - meant for the present candidate countries.
Let the signal you send out be a bold one, one that is readily understood, and one that also awakens a sense of responsibility in these countries.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office, I too would like to speak today about enlargement, about the Convention, about Iraq and about the economic situation, but I do not have time.
Before coming here, I asked the Greek Presidency if it would give priority to the issue of international maritime traffic in dangerous goods.
However, Mr President-in-Office, international maritime traffic has at present unfortunately fallen from grace and is associated with the situation in Galicia, the location of one of Europe's and the world's biggest disasters over the last 30 years.
Mr President-in-Office, like those I have quoted many of the names are Greek and most of the shipowners were or are Greek.
The Copenhagen European Council laid bare a serious political conflict: the Member States turned their back on the public, on the fishermen and on the volunteers who had acted so admirably.
The Member States have neither implemented the 'Erika' legislation nor set up the compensation fund.
However, I read in the international press today that the Commission is about to submit a report which concludes that Europe is losing its battle to acquire a more competitive economy in the world by 2010.
This Commission report also states, if the Figaro is to be believed, that it expects a twin-track Europe to emerge, with Sweden and Denmark fast-forwarding on one track and Greece, Italy and France in slow motion on the other.
Mr President, the Greek Presidency has come along at a crucial time for our planet, and not just because we are on the brink of at least one armed conflict.
When we emerge from these vicissitudes, the entire world - and the European Union in particular - will be a different place, regardless of the outcome of the crisis.
However, I get the impression that the prevailing mood in the institutions of the European Union is one of complacency, as if what is happening has nothing to do with us.
The final proposals are due before the end of January.
The rural population of the European Union will rise by 165% and rural land by 43%.
I should like to ask you what your presidency's objectives are, Mr Prime Minister, and what you intend to do for the millions of European farmers, in both the current European Union and the enlarged European Union.
As far as Lisbon is concerned, two of the ten years have passed and little has been achieved, far less than the 20% which should have been achieved by now.
What is certain is that, instead of closing, the competitiveness differential between our economy and the American economy, which is our main competitor, is now even wider.
On the Lisbon strategy, I should like to focus on sustainable development.
The need to promote a sustainable development strategy within the framework of European integration is even more urgent today, what with the pressure of enlargement and increasing globalisation.
The plan for implementing the sustainable development strategy drawn up by the European Commission is already filling the vacuum between what we say and what we do, by way of legislation, to protect the environment and public health and encourage the application and mainstreaming of the environmental dimension in all our policies.
Obviously, the European Union cannot deal with this as an internal problem.
So it needs to shoulder its responsibilities at international level, which means pioneering efforts to achieve sustainable development through technology and science.
This is where I should like to focus your attention, Mr President-in-Office, because Europe has clearly started slipping behind recently, especially in biotechnology, in comparison with the United States and Japan.
As far as defence and immigration policy are concerned, I agree.
As you know, we have been calling for an immigration policy in the European Union for years, without any concrete results.
Although illegal immigrants themselves are often living in abject circumstances, they also cause huge problems in the societies and to the people living in the Member States of the European Union.
Measures therefore need to be taken to improve the management of our external borders and to combat illegal immigration networks and trafficking in human beings by promoting measures under the third pillar.
I think the Thessaloniki Council needs to push on with the reform of the Treaties of the European Union.
Finally, in foreign relations, I think that you need to encourage Euro-Mediterranean cooperation, basically under a long-term Euro-Mediterranean policy.
Italy is to follow Greece, giving two countries with excellent knowledge of these problems the chance to draw up an efficient Euro-Mediterranean policy.
We need a long-term policy.
We are about to draft a European constitution and strengthen our institutions, in order to guarantee the continuing cohesion of Europe, even after the ten new countries have joined, and ensure that it continues to operate as a political union so that it can achieve its objective, which is greater and greater unification of the nations of Europe.
The Convention has called for more Europe on numerous occasions and the Greek Presidency will put the finishing touches to this structure in Thessaloniki in June.
I think that Greece, a country whose economy has recovered thanks to a programme of reform carried out on its own initiative, and a country which has achieved rates of growth putting it at the forefront of the European Union and has used this process to bring about a positive revolution in the agricultural sector, and a country which now has a first-world rather than a third-world economy, thanks also, of course, to the common agricultural policy, is now well prepared to breathe new life into the Lisbon process, which it badly needs if it is to survive.
Their beneficial results, however, may be delayed if we have to deal with war with Iraq.
Mr President, I am grateful to have the opportunity to respond at the end of the debate.
Members have raised very interesting points.
Until recently relations between Parliament and the Council were not extensive, but a combination of an increase in the powers of this House and the prospect of an increase in the number of Member States has had the effect of bringing our two institutions much closer together.
We see it very publicly, particularly in the Convention, and also in the number of very successful negotiations through the codecision process.
I welcome the approach taken, first by the Danish Presidency and now continued by the Greek Presidency, to much closer working relations with this House, shown in the President-in-Office's concern that a statute for Members should form part of the successful reform of the European Union institutions.
Mr President, unfortunately, circumstances prevent me from being in celebratory mood.
The Greek Government was party to the wars against Yugoslavia and Afghanistan and has said that it will join the impending war against Iraq, even if it is hiding behind its fig leaf by saying that war needs to be preceded by a UN Security Council resolution.
Obviously our group agrees with this.
We need to develop environmentally friendly technologies, partly because of the employment opportunities they create and the training needs that exist, but also because of their positive social repercussions.
I am interested in understanding how this links to the current treaty requirement in Article 6 to integrate the environment into policies and practices of the European Union.
Mr Trakatellis made some very important points on this.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Greece has changed a great deal since its last presidency, as it has become a staunch supporter of Turkey's candidacy.
Greece's position with regard to the institutions surprised us a little.
With regard to the priorities of the Greek Presidency, we welcome the emphasis placed on the issues of immigration, asylum and external border management, which today have in fact become extremely serious.
We would therefore ask the Presidency to show greater firmness in these matters, and in particular in the fight against illegal immigration.
Lastly, we are surprised at the absence, in these priorities, of a specific chapter on economic and monetary union, because, on this point, Greece could have presented not only priorities for the future, but also a summary of the past.
This summary would have been fully justified, since Greece has presided over the Eurogroup for the past six months.
With regard to the future, how, for example, does the Greek Presidency intend to contribute to making the Stability Pact more intelligent?
We would have benefited from some clarification on all of these points.
Mr President, allow me to start by thanking all the members of the European Parliament.
The first question concerns the proposal to create a worldwide Socrates programme.
Suffice it to say that our future depends on the competition the internal market can bring.
Question No 15 by Carlos Lage (H-0851/02): Subject: Humanitarian crisis in Angola The protracted war in Angola has brought about a severe crisis and a calamitous economic and social situation.
Mr President, the Commission is committed to addressing the dramatic humanitarian crisis in Angola effectively and without delay and to supporting the peace process.
The Commission's action in Angola is twofold: emergency humanitarian aid and a longer-term strategy based on cooperation.
As far as the humanitarian aid is concerned, the Commission, through ECHO, has already generated a considerable amount of funding to address the needs and will maintain its presence and commitment in the country throughout this year.
Last year Angola was among the top ten recipients of ECHO funding, receiving a total of EUR 14 million.
As far as the longer-term strategy is concerned, in May 2002, a month after the signature of the peace agreement, a plan of action to support the peace process was presented by the Commission and approved by the General Affairs Council on 13 May.
The plan of action identified a financial package, originally EUR 124 million, from unspent EDF funds and budget lines aimed at addressing the most pressing concerns at this stage, including emergency relief, food aid and food security, reintegration and resettlement of refugees and displaced persons and de-mining operations.
The implementation of this is now under way and to our great satisfaction we can start doing things in a country where for many years we have, owing to the circumstances, only been able to do humanitarian work.
On that basis, and as part of this plan of action, the Commission has made EUR 30 million available for emergency support for the peace process by reallocating funds from earlier European Development Funds to support short-term work on the peace process.
De-mining is also important.
The decision on all this will be implemented through different UN agencies, EuronAid and FAO for the food security component and different NGOs for the de-mining operations.
Proposals for EUR 16 million have been signed and the remaining proposals are awaiting approval by the Angolan national authorities.
Although humanitarian support will continue to be provided, the Commission considers that pressure must be kept up on the Angolan Government to urge it to assume more direct responsibility for its own vulnerable populations.
We are therefore calling upon the government of Angola to make more efforts in addressing the critical humanitarian needs of the population.
We welcome the Angolan Government's intention to organise an international conference for the reconstruction of the country, and trust that the views of all groups in society will be reflected in the reconstruction plan to be presented.
The Commission has offered to assist in the organisation of the conference, which is tentatively scheduled to take place in March or April 2003 in Brussels, kindly hosted by the Belgian Government.
These are times of great change and challenge for Angola after many years of conflict.
Angola has been generously endowed with resources by nature, but unfortunately it has also been the victim of acts of madness by mankind for decade upon decade.
It is now possible to use these rich and immense natural resources to benefit the people of this country, which, although it covers an enormous geographical area, has a population of just 13 or 14 million people.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, I think that the Commission should continue along the lines you have just informed us about.
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to add something to what has just been said.
It is difficult to say what is most important.
In cases like this almost everything is important.
For many years any support, even food supplies and basic commodities, has had to be flown in to the small towns in most of the country: these towns were more or less isolated because of UNITA which surrounded them.
As the author is not present, Question No 16 lapses.
Question No 17 by John Walls Cushnahan (H-0872/02): Subject: Recent maritime disasters In light of the series of maritime disasters that have occurred in European waters in November and December 2002, namely the Prestige disaster which continues to produce yet more oil slicks which are devastating the coastline and marine life of Galicia, compounded with the recent collision between the freighter the Tricolor and the Kariba, and the second collision between the wreck of the Tricolor and the freighter the Nicola, will the Commission recognise that there is a clear need for a coordinated EU response?
This document contains detailed proposals for a series of measures and, in particular, speeds up the application of the legislation approved by Parliament and the Council following the Erika disaster, the so-called Erika I and II packages.
The Transport Council of 6 December supported the majority of the initiatives proposed by the Commission.
Therefore, on 20 December, the College approved a proposal for a regulation, which has just been sent to the Council and to Parliament, prohibiting the transport of heavy oils by single-hull oil tankers destined for or originating from European Union ports and speeding up the replacement of this type of oil tanker by double-hull oil tankers.
There was already a wide range of measures for guaranteeing better protection in this field.
The recurrence of accidents such as the Erika or the Prestige, not to mention other lesser ones such as the Vicky just a few days ago, demonstrates that the whole of Europe would gain from a European coastguard body, particularly in view of the fact that some of the 25 future States of the Union have absolutely no type of protection or body of this nature.
In any event, the main task of the European Maritime Safety Agency, which is soon to be created, is to technically coordinate the application of Community rules, and the Commission will study which measures must be adopted in the future, in view of the experiences of the Agency.
In relation to the Prestige, responsibility and liability were disputed.
On top of this, we have had the subsequent incidents involving the Tricolor, the Kariba and the Nicola.
They have successful experience in this field, and we have a lot to learn from them.
This is what I said very clearly when I made the proposals in the Erika I and Erika II packages.
I do not understand why the United States can have a timetable according to which there will be no single-hull vessels transporting oil in its ports by 2010 and we cannot adopt a similar measure.
The Commission is studying how to apply those specific measures following the Prestige; they include the possibility of promoting the construction and maintenance of two or three large skimmers, large suction machines, so that, if an oil slick happens - unfortunately there is no such thing as zero risk, although it should be reduced to the minimum - there may be vessels of the greatest possible power, superior to the vessels currently in existence on European coasts, which furthermore can operate and act at sea at times of storms and difficulties.
The Agency, which would be responsible for these vessels and for the deployment at different strategic points on European coasts, must also implement a series of plans for responding to maritime accidents of this type.
With regard to responsibility, as the honourable Member knows, we are working on it and I hope that over the next few weeks we can present, within the Commission and rapidly approved, a proposal to provide a criminal definition of serious negligence in all the Member States of the Union in the event of this type of accident.
You called for the commitments given in the 'Erika' legislation to be implemented, Mrs de Palacio, and you called for an approach that went beyond those commitments, but the European Council turned its back on the victims of the disaster who at that very moment were scooping up oil with their own hands.
The Council seemed to hold the Commission's views in contempt, and it is enough to say that it proposed only five million euros for Galicia and all the countries affected, whereas the United States is currently calling for four billion euros for the 'Exxon Valdez' accident.
With this in mind, Commissioner, I would like to ask you why the Commission has not brought forward a legislative act like the United States' Oil Pollution Act, which provides a real basis for combating this problem.
At the Transport Council on 6 December, conclusions were unanimously approved which stated that the States are committed at national level, until we have a Community proposal, to adopting measures aimed at excluding from their ports any ships transporting bituminous products (heavy fuel oil, heavy oil, tars) which do not have a double hull.
And the country which I know best, just like the honourable Member, has already taken a measure which entered into force on 1 January this year, and certain other countries have adopted it as well.
Thirdly, they have committed themselves to speeding up the implementation of all the measures adopted in the Erika I and Erika II packages and therefore not to wait until July of this year or February 2004 to do so.
The Prestige tragedy has been a real wake-up call for all the Member States of the Union.
I would like to have the powers of the federal government of the United States, but the European Union is not a federation and the Commission is not therefore the federal government of a United States of Europe; I would not mind if it were, and if I were a Minister in that federal government, but that is not the case.
You are also well aware of the problem associated with maritime traffic.
In any event, there are two types of flag of convenience: those which exist for purely economic or tax reasons and those which, furthermore, demonstrate very little responsibility when it comes to control and the quality of the ships which fly them.
In this regard, port inspections, with the selective criteria we have proposed and which have been approved thanks to the support of this Parliament, and which the Council also approved, clearly mean that, as soon as a ship flying that flag reaches a European Union port, it will be thoroughly inspected.
This type of action and control, particularly in relation to those countries and flags which present most risk, is the way to act in the immediate term.
However, the honourable Member is right, because it is not just a question of flags of convenience, but also the problem of the responsibility of classification societies, who have a conflict of interests, because they justify and certify the quality of a ship on behalf of the State issuing the flag but at the same time work for the owner of the ship in order to issue certain types of certificates.
These principles are laid down in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union and are confirmed in Articles 1 and 4 of the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Respect for these principles by the States is guaranteed by the infringement procedure laid down in Article 226 of the European Community Treaty and by the political procedures laid down in Article 7 of the Union Treaty.
In the case of the latter, the Commission or a third of the Member States of the Union can raise the issue before the Council, meeting at the level of Heads of State or Government, in the event of a serious or persistent violation of the principles laid down in Article 6.
The majority of cases relating to the issues raised by the honourable Member relate to asylum, immigration and the protection of the rights of third-country nationals.
Furthermore, the Community began to legislate on this issue in accordance with Articles 61 and 63 of the European Community Treaty.
The Commission would point out however that the report by the Council of Europe which the honourable Member refers to was followed by a detailed response by the Greek authorities, which in the current situation is providing a series of responses to the concerns expressed by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture.
In any event, the Commission will closely monitor the development of the dialogue between the Council of Europe and the Greek authorities.
It raises questions of transparency and questions of control because, as you can see, the committee of the Council of Europe has been given false information.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the fact that - as I have said - it seems that there is a clear dialogue between the Greek authorities and the European Council, I would like to say that the Council of Ministers of the European Union reached a political agreement in December 2002 to bring forward a directive on the minimum rules for the reception of asylum seekers in the Member States of the European Union, on the basis of a Commission proposal of May 2001.
However, this directive - which was also supported by the Greek Government - intends to grant asylum seekers material facilities, which include accommodation, food and clothing, as well as a daily allowance which guarantees an adequate standard of living and subsistence for the asylum seekers.
All these measures will be applied in favour of asylum seekers authorised to remain in the territory in that capacity, even if they are obliged to remain in a particular place.
The broader issue is, could we ask the Parliament's services - and I am not blaming them in any way because this is a Commission issue - to ensure that if a Member's question is reclassified in this way, and is not down for an answer by the Commissioner to whom it is redirected, we are told about that, so that it can be reformulated if necessary and the Commissioner to whom it is addressed can answer it.
It does seem to me, Mr President, from the point of view of this Parliament, that it is perfectly possible for the Commission services in effect to deflect a question away from a Commissioner unilaterally, without the Member concerned having any knowledge of it.
Competence for and allocation of the order or classification of these questions falls to the Commission, which naturally can make mistakes, just as Parliament can.
In other words, introducing one question means giving up another, and this sets a very difficult precedent.
In principle, your question will be replied to in writing.
Only in this case.
Mr President, in the Commission of course the impact assessment has a global approach at the moment, because we try to assess business, environmental and social aspects at the same time.
As the author is not present, Question No 19 lapses.
This is a policy line that we have followed for many years.
The European Charter for Small Enterprises has been a valuable instrument focusing and reinforcing this work.
Much of the Commission's work aims to help Member States to improve the business environment for their small businesses.
I had a chance to speak with the Greek Presidency last week and my services have separately met the national authorities of all Member States including the Greek Ministry of Development to review progress under the Charter.
The Commission will report next week on the implementation of the Charter but I can already now say that Member States' progress in 2002 is encouraging, in particular in the areas of education for entrepreneurship and better regulation.
A detailed review of all Community measures benefiting small and medium-sized enterprises will also be published next week when the Commission reports comprehensively on entrepreneurial and SME activities.
The Green Paper defines entrepreneurship as a 'mindset' and focuses on the role of policy on entrepreneurial behaviour among both new and existing entrepreneurs.
The Paper suggests a coordinated approach, involving policy-makers in different services at European, national and regional level, to provide a coherent response to the needs of entrepreneurs.
The Commission can help the Member States to share experience and compare performance.
For each of these, the Green Paper raises a number of questions for debate.
The only specific information you have given me is that the Green Paper is being prepared and will contribute to the joint effort being made by the European institutions and the Member States to increase entrepreneurship, kick-start the European economy and, as a result, create new jobs.
Question No 21 by Paul Rübig (H-0879/02): Subject: Status of third-party certifiers in the EU The European Commission is currently working on a new approach to the CE marking system and the future strategy for that system.
The objectives of the forthcoming communication on the new approach, enhancing the implementation and new approach are: firstly, to analyse the overall situation in the field of new approach directives which cover a wide range of products; secondly, to detect possible weaknesses; and thirdly, to outline remedial measures to improve the application of the new approach directives.
This marking, required by most new approach directives, is addressed to market surveillance authorities of the Member States and symbolises the conformity of the product with the applicable Community requirements imposed on the manufacturer.
The communication will also address the issue of the relationship between the CE marking and voluntary markings.
Third party certifiers are in some sectors already involved in the conformity assessment procedures leading to the CE marking.
It is also quite often stipulated that the identification number of the item should appear next to the CE marking.
For the first time the Commission has made a proposal that has undergone this broadened impact assessment, concerning employment policy guidelines.
It is very important for our internal work that we stick to this impact assessment system.
Mr Rübig, in any event you will receive a reply in writing as Question No 52.
Specifically, can Kosovan institutions count on very wide-ranging autonomy in the future?
Let me emphasise that Kosovo's institutional set-up, including the distribution of responsibilities, has been defined by the United Nations Security Council and must be respected by all sides, including the provisional institutions of self-government in Kosovo.
Kosovo's current economic situation is clearly a product of past political and economic neglect and oppression before 1999.
This demanded major economic efforts from the United Nations interim administration, and especially its European Union pillar, in the last three years.
Furthermore, the Commission has succeeded in letting Kosovo benefit from the various instruments of the European Union's stabilisation and association process, even without a decision on its future status, to ensure that it does not fall behind in the region.
In short, we have gone a very long way to find creative ways to improve Kosovo's economic situation and we will continue to do so.
Our efforts and those of the United Nations qualify the imaginative policy that the honourable Member mentioned in his question, even though Kosovo's unresolved status poses additional challenges to both the international and local authorities.
I hope that the technical breakdown is not a reflection of the situation in Kosovo, for we all know that there are power cuts there sometimes as the electricity supply is not yet fully operational.
I would like to thank Commissioner Patten wholeheartedly for his answer.
First of all I am glad that technology eventually brought us the honourable Member's supplementary question.
What we want to see is Kosovo putting in place the sort of policies and the sort of implementing agencies which will allow it, with the other countries in the region, to move ever closer to the European Union.
The status issue has raised some problems in that respect.
Question No 23 by Bernd Posselt (H-0866/02): Subject: Status of Kosovo Would the Commission be prepared to have various options drawn up for the future status of Kosovo and to submit them to the Council and Parliament for further discussion, or does it see any other practicable ways of finally tackling this problem?
Kosovo's status is currently defined under UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999.
Any decision on its final status will therefore have to be taken by the Security Council.
The European Union fully supports the policy of standards before status pursued by the UN Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo to which I have just referred, endorsed by the UN Security Council at its meeting of 24 April last year.
Commissioner, I too am aware that Kosovo's present status is laid down in the UN Resolution, but the simple fact is that we also have to consider the future, and that is where I can envisage a problem, in that no major investor will put money into Kosovo if he does not know what sort of long-term future the place has to look forward to.
Hence this question: is there any sort of dialogue between the European Union and the representatives of Kosovo, in which these issues are at least considered?
After all, the present position cannot remain as it is for decades at a stretch, and we cannot go sliding, without any sort of forward planning, into a future that will be with us very soon.
I am very pleased that in the three years and more that I have been visiting Kosovo we have seen not only a transformation of the economic and social situation on the ground but the establishment of the provisional administration: the political structure to reflect the wishes of the people of Kosovo themselves.
I think that is a step forward, but I very much hope, in the debate which local politicians have, that they will recognise that whatever the nature of their aspirations on the status issue, the first thing they have to get right is the basics of economic and social life in Kosovo.
Following a request from the Council, the Commission compiled in January last year a list of projects funded by the European Union and Member States which had either been destroyed or damaged by Israeli military forces.
The list of destroyed projects has recently been updated by the Commission office in Jerusalem, in coordination with the EU Member State representative offices in Jerusalem and Ramallah.
The estimated total, as of 14 December last year, stands at approximately EUR 24 million.
This assessment is limited to the costs of physical infrastructure, excluding indirect losses such as project delays or suspensions.
These estimated damages were presented to the General Affairs Council of 28 January last year; the GAC in turn asked the Government of Israel to put an end to this practice and reserved the right to claim reparation in the appropriate fora.
The issue was also more recently discussed at the EU-Israel Association Council meeting of 21 October 2002.
This situation of economic collapse, and a deepening humanitarian crisis, destroys hope and destroys any prospect of stability and security for both Israel and the Palestinians.
Israel, due to its relatively high average income per inhabitant, is not eligible to benefit from bilateral European Union funding under MEDA programmes.
I am bound to say that in my strong judgment the suspension of the association agreement, which provides the basis not only for the European Union's trade relations with Israel but also for its political dialogue, would do nothing at all to increase the understanding of the Israeli authorities in relation to the current widely held concerns of the European Union and of many European Union citizens.
A summary table of financial aid given by the European Union to the Palestinian Authority from 1994 to 2002, as well as the updated table with the estimate of losses, are being sent directly to the honourable Member.
Mr President, I should like to thank Commissioner Patten for a very precise and very satisfactory answer.
I should like to make two points.
I am not sure what damaging and almost destroying the Central Bureau of Statistics in the Palestinian territories has to do with rooting out terrorism.
Very often it looks to bystanders as though every manifestation of institutional life in the Palestinian territories has been targeted, whether public or private, whether the authorities' administrative structure or civil society.
I happen to believe that is a profoundly mistaken policy, particularly if one is trying to hold out to Palestinians a political prospect and a path to peace and future security.
We have been one of the main supporters of the Palestinian authority and have been the subject of some very unfair criticism for that.
However, keeping a Palestinian authority in being is an important part of holding out the prospect of a peace process.
Before Christmas we announced that we would provide EUR 30 million for those municipalities in Palestine that had been hardest hit by hostilities.
We are providing a loan fund of EUR 10 million for small- and medium-sized enterprises.
Following the destruction of Palestinian infrastructure, these accusations were made precisely when that same infrastructure had some connection with terrorist activities directed against Israel and against Israeli civilians, without regard to whether they were Jewish or of Arab descent.
Question No 25 by Olivier Dupuis (H-0843/02): Subject: Voice of Europe In its answer to Question H-0234/02 The Commission fully shares the motives and objectives of the honourable Member, in particular in strengthening the pressure for a better respect for human rights by improving the availability of information.
Our differences are on two points: firstly the eligibility of this specific proposal in terms of the current funding policies and criteria, and secondly the cost of the proposal both in investment and running costs.
Projects of this nature are foreseen neither in the communication of May 2001 on the European Union's role in promoting human rights and democratisation in third countries, nor in the 2002-2004 programming document for the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights.
The programming document which governs the selection of projects sets out eligible themes for support, including freedom of expression for the independent media, which were then refined in the context of programming identification missions to 29 focus countries of the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights.
My question, however, is, more specifically, the following: if Parliament were to vote for a significant increase in the 'human rights' budget heading, would you be inclined to move on to an operational phase of the 'Voice of Europe' project?
I should like first of all to emphasise my personal interest in this subject.
Radio Free Asia has a budget of about EUR 30 million per year.
When I look back, I might well wish that European broadcasters had done more at an earlier stage to provide greater competition with CNN.
Reliable payment and settlement systems require a clear legal framework, rules and procedures to govern securities holding, transfers, lending and related payments, as well as the imposition of constraints on these securities.
Clearing and settlement, essential components of all securities transactions, are therefore fundamental to the smooth functioning of integrated financial markets.
In any case, in order to attain specific objectives, it is necessary to know what the operational situation in the sector is, in order to make the appropriate adjustments.
There are two main reference markets: the United States and Europe.
The USA has opted for the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation, which incorporates both clearing and settlement systems and is overseen by a single managerial body, whose proven efficiency has led to substantial cost reductions.
The European model with as many as 20 CSDs is fragmentary, benefiting from the fact that competition is only limited to securing new areas of influence.
With regard to taxation barriers, the difficulties do not stem only from the differences between systems but also from strong resistance to change and harmonisation by some Member States.
Innovation and technical progress could also be attained since the arrangement in paragraph 11 of the report specifies that non-profit status comes after allowing for necessary investment needs.
The latter could, in any case, be performed by central depositaries but with separate structures, including from a logistical point of view, by means of shared or supervised companies.
The added-value services offered by banks or structures separate from depositaries are securities lending, collateral management, cash management, corporate actions, income management and taxation services: all purely commercial activities.
In particular I should like to thank the rapporteur for his important report.
The Commission will assess Parliament's response to its communication very carefully and will take into account the views expressed in that report.
The Commission shares the view expressed in the resolution that efficient clearing and settlement is vital for the proper and safe functioning of the European financial markets.
In fact, as is often said with reason, clearing and settlement is the plumbing system of the securities markets, without which nothing works.
The challenge that lies ahead for the Community institutions is to ensure - in cooperation with market participants, national regulatory authorities and national legislators - the elimination of all existing barriers to integration and lack of competition, which would make cross-border post-trade arrangements in the European Union inefficient.
That is essential for our common goal to build an integrated EU capital market by 2005.
The Commission feels that we should encourage market-led approaches and solutions wherever possible.
However, it is also true that major public policy concerns are at stake, such as the efficiency of the systems, costs, petition issues - namely open and non-discriminatory access and exclusivity agreements - interoperability of systems, and prudential and systemic safety.
The Commission now intends to issue a new communication which will set out clear policy orientations, something which, until now, we have not been able to do.
That document will serve as a basis for a second round of consultation, possibly in the first half of this year.
As in all future steps that we might want to take, we intend to proceed in close cooperation with the rapporteur, with Parliament and, in particular, with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
I agree with the Commissioner and the rapporteur that it is very important to remove technical and other barriers to cross-border clearing and settlement in Europe.
The Commission and the European Union can play a constructive role in facilitating cross-border clearing and settlement as a vital part of creating a single market in financial services.
There are certain points upon which PPE-DE Group opinion is divided, in particular point 11.
It is also necessary to ensure that suitable risk management schemes are in place so that if there is a problem with one service there is no contagion between the so-called core services and value-added services.
There may be many other ways in which the European Union and the European Commission can facilitate cross-border clearing and settlement, without necessarily having to resort to a hard law solution.
I appreciate that Mr Andria has moved on this and has compromised and added the facility for allowing the services to make proper investments, but we should not prescribe a non-profit status and compel the markets to adopt this model.
In particular we should not prejudge the market at this stage.
We should allow and encourage the market to produce its own solutions, to produce market-led solutions, although I can see that there are merits in encouraging user-owned systems, because looking around the European Union we can see a number of systems which are working well on a user-owned basis.
Our group is highly satisfied with his working methods and the results he has achieved.
The report, as voted on in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, is very well-balanced.
We would like to add two minor amendments designed to clarify the text rather than change the content.
I shall not repeat the importance of our work in establishing an integrated financial market at European level.
Parliament has already examined some aspects of this market and imposed some of the extremely numerous common rules which will be necessary for it to function properly.
A single, transparent framework for clearing and settlement is part of these essential rules.
That is why, in parallel with our work on the directive on investment services, Parliament is asking the Commission for a draft directive on clearing and settlement.
Furthermore, this system naturally tends towards the establishment of a private monopoly and distortions of competition due to confusion between the differing functions of infrastructures and banks.
We could, of course, as some Members are proposing, allow the market to organise itself.
We believe these settlement infrastructures should be considered as a service of general interest.
That should not prejudice their private or public status, but allow them to be run as non-profit-making bodies and be accessible without discrimination to all users.
This seems particularly relevant at a time when the United States are stepping up measures to protect their market.
That way we will protect our markets and put an end to the dumping that is often concealed in the confusion.
The European Commission has asked us to speak on this matter.
For this reason, our group will reject all the amendments that are nothing more than delaying tactics and will support the rapporteur in his clear, constructive positions.
We have tabled two amendments, whose principal aim is to clarify the text voted in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and which do not take anything away from the text.
We simply believe that the wording of the current paragraph 11 no longer corresponds to the state of market forces and would lead to excessive disruption if settlement services had to be the property of their users.
We have also taken the liberty of adding to the compromise adopted by all the groups on paragraph 12 our concern for transparency and the exercise of free competition.
From the start, in the action plan for the financial market, this matter of clearing and settlement did not receive the attention it deserved and we therefore now need to remedy this omission.
Systemic risks are also inherent in this type of activity which therefore clearly fall within the scope of general interest.
On the other hand, these activities have an increasing return.
We know, however, that these regulations exist at national level, as well as at European level, and fragmented infrastructures and rules predominated until recently.
We can see, however, that in the absence of appropriate legislation, the current development is biased and dangerous, as bodies are being formed which carry out both clearing and settlement activities and competing banking activities, with no general interest framework and apparently at risk of distorting competition.
Hence the proposals to separate non-profit-making activities from fee systems based on costs.
We have clear positions from the rapporteur which Parliament should adopt without sugaring the pill in order to achieve a positive line.
Mr Andria's report on promoting the efficient settlement of securities therefore requires our full attention.
An inquiry into competition aspects as described in paragraph 15 can contribute to creating a transparent securities market.
It is therefore high time we made sure that where there is an internal securities market, the numerous settlement costs do not obstruct cross-border transactions in this market.
The Commission communication on clearing and settlement in the European Union analyses the sources of inefficiency in cross-border clearing and settlement arrangements.
This inefficiency is largely due to technical requirements, market practice and the fragmentation resulting from national differences and legal barriers.
It is also very important that the supervisory authorities adhere to a common approach and harmonised rules.
Understandably, it is often the situation obtaining in the big Member States that serves as a basis for drafting single market directives and this sometimes seems to lead to the 'one size fits all' principle being applied.
This principle is very poorly suited to the stock markets, which will still be characterised by their own national features well into the future.
The message in these points, put in just a few words, is that core functions in settlement should be properly determined, and the central securities depositories and the settlement institutions should practise these with a view to making a profit and under the supervision of users, whereas those offering services must be kept separate from the others.
There is also a fundamental difference in the structure of central securities depositories in continental Europe on the one hand and the Nordic countries on the other, in that information on the investor in the Nordic central securities depositories is entered directly into the system and also, except in Denmark, directly into the issuer's register of shareholders.
In the systems in continental Europe custody is nominee registered, and the investor has no direct contact with the issuer.
The Commission has furthermore become conscious of these differences and is approaching the matter of clearing and settlement cautiously and from a functional point of view, which is a very good thing.
In my country, Finland, for example, Finnish issuers have, in their everyday activities, had a high opinion of value-added services based on registers of shareholders.
Together with my colleague, Astrid Lulling, I have drafted two amendments, which are aimed at preserving the efficacy of the national markets and would make possible the existence of all structural systems and alternatives.
This being the case I would like to stress the importance of accepting these two amendments, and I also hope that my group will support them.
This communication builds on the Giovannini report of November 2001, which identified many sources of inefficiency in cross-border clearing and settlement arrangements within the European Union.
It is essential to manage the potentially high risks of clearing and settlement systems effectively, to ensure the stability of the financial system.
With the increased demand for foreign securities since the introduction of the euro, our infrastructure for clearing and settlement of cross-border transactions remains fragmented, resulting in much higher costs than with national transactions.
In this report we are presented with proposals to remove the barriers and distortions in the European Union post-trading environment, to create a level playing field between institutions, a common regulatory view and the development of rights of access and choice.
Pan-European infrastructures are essential to an integrated financial market, with market participants, regulators and competition authorities all playing a role.
We know the European Union has already accepted natural monopolies in certain service areas such as gas, electricity and air traffic control to ensure fair access to all users in the single market.
Now the same principle must be applied to post-trading infrastructure.
But such radical departure from our present systems of up to 20 central security depositories and very different legal frameworks would probably make it very difficult to achieve.
While a lot more work is needed prior to any legislative initiative from the Commission - and I welcome Commissioner Bolkestein's offer of a second round of consultation - the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has laid out its stall, proposing separate core settlement services as a user-owned or public service, governed by the rules of non-profit status.
I find it regrettable that our rapporteur has largely disregarded this self-evident truth.
As regards clearing and settlement, we have reached the stage of consultation on the basis of a Commission communication, a stage at which it is premature to say the least to instruct the Commission, in precise terms, to submit a proposal for a directive, and to tell them what should be in it.
We are all in agreement with the Commission that it is right to make the cross-border clearing and settlement systems more efficient and to cut their costs.
I am also astonished at the sweeping proposal for a non-profit system of this sort, even though it is far from being proven that such a model would be preferable to a system run on a profit-making basis.
To do the very opposite in a sector like clearing and settlement, which is so important to the nascent internal market in financial services, and to attempt to establish a public monopoly, is quite simply absurd and demonstrates a lack of awareness of the world's realities.
This would result in the enforced breaking-up of a variety of enterprises and is contrary to the approach favoured not only by most market operators, but also by the European Central Bank.
Any operator in the market should be able to provide all these services, and any future European legislation should focus on the service itself and not on the body providing it.
Many interventions, as well as what has been said here today, show us that opinions have not yet taken their final form - it is not that the report is not good enough, but that the subject-matter is too important.
The creation of an integrated financial market is not alone in still facing too many obstacles, hindrances and barriers, and the costs involved are still excessive.
This means that integration is something to be advocated if we really want an integrated financial market, but I would not venture to say today whether vertical or horizontal integration is to be preferred, in other words, whether the amalgamation of different settlement systems is in itself something to be favoured or repudiated, or, indeed, whether it is inimical to competition.
We await a proposal for a directive, which will make it possible to move this debate on to a more concrete phase.
Thank you very much, Mr Karas.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
We are discussing health and the elderly, and I would say that the health systems of all the European Union Member States are experiencing, albeit to varying degrees, similar situations.
Here are some examples: in the European Union, the proportion of the population over the age of 65 will rise from 16.1% in 2000 to 22% in 2025 and 27% in 2050, that is a third of the population.
At the same time people over the age of 80, who made up 3.6% of the population in 2000 are likely to make up 6% in 2025 and 10% in 2050.
Although the provision of health care and care for the elderly remains essentially the responsibility of the Member States, we realise that this trend, owing to the significant and complex implications, cannot find an effective response at exclusively national level.
These problems must be included in the context of broader European cooperation so that we can achieve successful results, as set out by the principles and goals of the Community action programme in the field of public health and the specific objectives established by the United Nations Plan of Action.
In March 2002, the Barcelona European Council also stressed the need to launch and develop cooperation between Member States in this sector, through exchanges of best practice and information and discussion of the common challenges facing them at European level.
The European Union has already affirmed on various occasions the need to draw up a global strategy covering the economic, employment and social implications of an ageing population, by harnessing the full potential of people of all ages and strengthening solidarity between generations.
The safeguarding and further improvement of high quality social protection and health care provision in the Member States, based on the principle of solidarity and accessibility to healthcare for all concerned, will be necessary in order to fully attain the goals of financial viability, accessibility and quality.
Yesterday, the Commission sounded the umpteenth alarm, seeking to make us the most competitive economy in the world by 2010: precisely what was determined in Lisbon three years ago, owing to slow growth.
Therefore, in the hope that we shall soon see the European Parliament participating more actively in drawing up the Broad Economic Policy Guidelines and health policy guidelines, I would call on the Commission and the Council to take into consideration the decisions contained in this report when preparing the joint synthesis report for the Spring 2003 European Council, and also the European Convention, which should include a high level of health protection as a general goal.
The Commission will be taking account of the proposals and recommendations made in it.
The fact that the report is in favour of Community cooperation to improve health care in the European Union is very important.
As you know, the Barcelona European Council called on the Commission and the Member States to work together in this sector.
The Commission presented its first communication in December 2001 and this parliamentary report is in response to it.
They have now been returned and the Commission is working on a new report which will be presented to the Employment Council and then to the European Council in 2003.
The Commission proposed this strategy in 1999 as part of the social agenda under the Lisbon strategy.
Of course, this report will influence our work throughout 2003 and I think that both Parliament and the Commission will be formulating the same urgent request to the Member States to cooperate and teach each other so that three basic objectives can be achieved: access to these systems for the elderly, the provision of quality services and economic viability.
We are working constantly on the comparability of the data and indices needed to facilitate cooperation between the Member States.
The Commission will issue a new communication on measures which need to be taken during the current year on the basis of this experience and the work I referred to earlier.
Last year, my services started a series of studies into the social protection systems in the 13 candidate countries and they are currently examining health care systems.
The conclusions of these studies, which were discussed in Brussels on 5 and 6 December, will be available to you shortly.
Mr President, as has already been said, this is one of the major issues facing the European Union.
But this is ultimately the responsibility of Member States.
Our challenge is to ensure that Member States carry on with their own provision, but with coordination and cooperation and the sharing of best practice throughout the European Union.
So we need to find a sustainable way of keeping people active and healthy for as long as possible.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my compliments to Mr Mario Mantovani, who has carried out the onerous task of determining the difficult challenges which health care systems and public health polices in European Union countries will have to face, in view of the ageing of the population, and, not least, in view of enlargement.
From this point of view, an issue comes to the fore: ensuring a high level of human health protection, as set out in Article 152 of the Treaty of Amsterdam and as specified by the goals of the Community action programme in the field of public health, which, moreover, calls for universal and equal access to health services, the constant improvement of these services and promotion of the social inclusion of people with disabilities and people in the most vulnerable categories.
Qualitative principles in the field of health care can be put into effect through the creation of specialised higher training for nurses, financed by European training funds, which encourage people to obtain further professional qualifications in important areas such as oncology, transplants, heart surgery and all the age-related diseases.
The solution to this problem must be implemented quickly since it concerns all the Member States.
This opportunity should therefore also be extended to CEEC qualifications, in order to resolve a twofold problem quickly: to respond to the nursing crisis in the Member States and to respond to the situation of countless immigrants seeking work in Europe.
What I am about to say may sound like a provocation, but I cannot avoid talking to you about another serious problem which concerns citizens from every European country, that is the 500 000 job cuts in the engineering industry over the next four or five years, a figure I have been given by an international trade union source.
This employment problem could be resolved in part though the transfer of qualified resources from one sector to another.
I would close by calling on everyone to reflect on what has been said regarding the need to remedy as soon as possible the nursing shortage in the European Union, the need to meet the quality criteria for care specified in the Community action programme by providing higher training, and the need to respond to the specific employment needs of the citizens of the Member States with solutions such as mobility and retraining, looking, where these prove inadequate, to human resources from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
The demographic situation is obviously a success for society, which can be attributed to medical care and an improvement in living conditions in general.
Elderly people do not make up an homogenous group and their needs therefore also vary.
Policies relating to the elderly must focus on the double perspective of their needs and the care they require - and which they have a right to - in order to meet those needs, and of their potential and the services they lend to society.
No society - including European society - can afford not to take advantage of the contributions elderly people can make in terms of their experience, training and knowledge.
As well as Article 152 of the Treaty, these policies comply with Article 21 of the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights, by prohibiting all discrimination - in this case on grounds of age - and Article 25, stating that the Union recognises and respects the rights of the elderly to lead a life of dignity and independence and to participate in social and cultural life.
In this regard, the Barcelona Council of March 2002 pointed out the need to initiate and develop cooperation between the Member States on these issues during 2002 and 2003, the need for an exchange of good practices and information and the need to hold a debate on the common challenges at European level.
Healthcare systems must face a triple challenge.
Whatever the system of funding, taxation or contributions, their achievement can and must be promoted also through the promotion of healthier lifestyles, prevention measures and increasing awareness on the part of service providers and users on the correct application of therapies and medications.
This will allow a balance between the three objectives.
The risk of prioritising the objective of financial sustainability could undermine those of quality and accessibility, but also, without sustainability, quality and accessibility would only be possible in the short term.
I think we have succeeded in securing a broad majority in tomorrow's plenary for this most important report.
All the Member States are looking for strategies to guarantee that their health care systems will, in future, remain accessible to all and to secure their standards of quality and performance, as well as ensuring that it is possible to finance them.
Just to take the wind out of the sceptics' sails, let me say that I am convinced that nobody in this House actively wants a single European system of health care.
The organisation and funding of health care systems is a matter decided at the national level and should remain so in future.
It is far more a case of how we are to retain, in the long term, our European model of a health care policy based on solidarity.
The second is that equal access to health services is a fundamental right and must remain one.
The third is that, as has already been said, all systems of health care are based upon the principle of solidarity.
And the fourth is that the State has a crucial role to play in regulating, funding and providing services.
This is where we can even now make progress by using the new action programme on health care policy.
We do all, after all, want the EU to be able to keep on, in future, using legislation to supplement the Member States' policies.
I say that, even though there are features of the report in its final form with which my group disagrees.
My group must therefore also reject Parliament's present proposal, as put forward in the report, that we should introduce outright open coordination when it comes to health policy and policy in relation to the elderly.
We have tabled a number of amendments, and if, as I really believe will be the case, it is not possible for these to be supported by Parliament, we shall find it difficult to support the report as a whole.
The open coordination method has, of course, become very popular in recent years and is used in a great many areas of economic policy, such as pensions, social exclusion within education and the convergence criteria in employment policy.
It is a good form of cooperation in which a number of common objectives are set that can be achieved in different ways.
That applies in the case of economic policy and employment policy.
In other areas, there is a less obvious basis in the treaties, or else there is really no basis.
It might be said that the Member States have every possible freedom to decide to coordinate their efforts and develop good practice.
That is something we have done within the framework of the OSCD for many years, but the difference between OSCD reports and the open coordination we undertake within the framework of the EU is - and, in my view, should be - that open coordination is more binding and that the countries in actual fact undertake to pursue the common objectives.
So it is important to give absolute priority to policies and measures based on an integrated approach which aim to promote health, ensure primary prevention, eliminate health risks, include a high level of health protection and which define and implement sectoral policies designed to eliminate health inequality.
The Commission communication on this subject, which the report welcomes despite some occasional criticisms, is indicative of the contradictions in social policies.
Mr President, I welcome the opportunity for debate on this report, on what is an important issue for all our countries.
Caring for the ageing population throughout Europe will be one of the biggest challenges facing the Member States in the future.
Although, as has already been said, the organisation of health care is a matter reserved for Member States, they cannot do this in isolation.
That is why my group welcomes the cooperation suggested by the Commission, in terms of exchanging information and best practice and developing common quality standards.
I welcome the reference in Mr Mantovani's report to social care as well as health care, as the combination of both is an essential element in the welfare of older people.
If those responsible for health and social policy took a real life-long approach to preventing disease and disability and viewed health promotion and prevention as the cornerstone of a 'foresighted policy', in the words of the report, this would not only improve health but would also cut costs.
Most pensioners depend entirely on their state pension or other state benefits as their only income.
The elderly play a very valuable role in our society.
Life-long learning, communication between the generations, voluntary work and similar issues on which the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has done a lot of work are intrinsically related to this discussion.
Health care, as I said earlier, is the responsibility of the Member States.
The references in this report to an internal market in health services and products reflects the move towards liberalisation.
The focus of this report and one of the main issues in this debate must be equality of access.
Health care and care of the elderly, whilst an important part of the overall health system, does not necessarily represent the overall health system.
There is a tendency in the report to assume that issues concerning health care of the elderly apply to the health system as a whole.
A detailed study on the financing of long-term care for older people is being carried out in my own country, Ireland.
In Ireland we have a very active health policy to give old people a better way of life.
I am able to support Amendments Nos 7 to 11 on replacing the 'open method of cooperation' with 'cooperation'.
Also, in the area of private financing for the health service, there must be a risk equalisation element whereby, if you bring in a private health insurer for the health care system, they must take the same risk as existing insurers or the state, which means covering everyone and all sections of society.
This year - 2003 - is the year of the disabled.
He puts forward a range of proposals based on a great concern about the demographic trend towards an ageing population and the consequences this will have for our health systems.
Promoting good healthcare and exchanging good practices are points I endorse.
The report misunderstands the position of the concept of subsidiarity when it comes to the role of Europe and the role of the Member States in these areas of policy.
We all want to keep this system under control, but we would all also like to be able to respond to this justified demand on the part of our citizens.
In the Netherlands, healthcare is not financed via taxes but via premiums; the situation is therefore different from what it says in the communication.
I also see that the communication - and this is why I am so much in favour of this open method of coordination - states that in those countries in which only a small proportion is financed via private insurance and the bulk via taxes, the best example in the table being Luxembourg, the per capita cost of healthcare is simply considerably lower.
What we should also have learned from one another is that Europe actually plays a major role in the field of healthcare already, despite the fact that we have little to say formally.
Firstly via the article in the Treaty in which achieving a high level of healthcare protection is stated as an objective.
So we should - and I would like to ask the Commissioner if she agrees - come up with solutions for the shortages and gaps in order to achieve proper financeability.
If we were to do something about generic medicines, we would be able to save EUR 500 million a year in our country alone.
I am convinced that Europe can do a lot, does do a lot and should actually do even more in the area of healthcare, even if it is initially via the open coordination method.
As the Commission has said in some of its documents, Europe - despite its great progress and despite having increased its standard of living and life expectancy over recent decades - still has problems such as the fact that one in every five citizens dies prematurely; the new risks; inequalities and differences on health issues, ...
The European citizens are asking for it for essential elements of their lives such as health.
I therefore hope that this method of open coordination, this detailed and exhaustive approximation of health needs - but also social needs and the humanisation of the lives of the elderly - and of these problems, is extended in future communications.
I hope that we will have new instruments so that Europe is not just a market, but also a collection of rights and a source of hope, which is what the public are asking us for.
The future of care for the elderly must not be reduced to a sectoral, or even simply humanist concern, and even less so to purely financial thinking or concern for financial viability.
I would also like to voice my opposition, as others have already done, to Article 10(c) of the report in particular, which advocates, and I quote, 'the creation of an internal market in health services and products'.
In France, seven trade unions have been asking for this recently.
They are also calling for demonstrations throughout the country on 1 February.
As recommended by one of the amendments tabled by my group, we need to study new ways to fund legal retirement systems, in particular by extending social contributions to all financial income, applying the same rates as for salaries.
Lastly, I would like to express my total opposition to increasing the duration of working life in France and in Europe, as recommended by the Barcelona European Council.
I would like to believe that it is genuinely about providing universal high-quality care in a variety of situations and circumstances, but that is certainly not the tone of the debate as it often comes across in a number of our Member States, where it seems to be all about how we can cut costs and find the money to make provisions.
But it means that we must look carefully at the financial and social support for carers, which should reflect the much larger costs that society would otherwise bear.
Some of my other concerns also focus on the issue of discrimination in the provision of health care for the elderly.
It is a useful area for comparison between Member States and might at some point be part of another horizontal directive for Article 13.
We also need to consider, both inside and outside the Convention, to what extent health care and general care are services of general interest and whether universal and affordable access should be guaranteed in the Treaties of the European Union.
When one is no longer as young and beautiful as you are, but, like me, is in one's seventieth year, that sort of thing causes an enormous amount of anguish.
As recently as 150 years ago, average life expectancy was around 40 years, and now it is 80.
I am very pleased about that.
That is the law in Austria, so that any working person can stay at home for one week in the year to care for his or her elderly family members.
I think it is a great thing that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has adopted this amendment.
Unless we believe, therefore, that the single market and free competition will solve all the problems in this regard as well, we shall have to be prepared to make significant financial efforts in terms of contributions and taxes, which will of course have to be distributed fairly, in order to guarantee a high level of care for all.
It is the only way of preventing longer lives from being nothing more than delayed death and ensuring that this increase represents the continuation of a genuine life, not forgetting that experience is also a factor in progress.
Now, at the beginning of a new millennium, Mr President, we all know, and some, even some of us, regret, that we are far from having fulfilled all these conditions and criteria.
In less than one decade, between 1990 and 1999, the number of women over 65 has increased by nearly 3%.
In Portugal, for example, if we consider the population of working age, greater longevity amongst women means that since 1995 the number of elderly women has been greater than that of young women.
At the same time, the increase in the number of elderly persons is imposing a greater burden on health care and social services.
So the great challenge for us is to achieve a high level of satisfaction amongst the elderly with their quality of life, while keeping the costs that this involves in check.
This will inevitably make demands on public finance, which plays a key part in expenditure on health in all the Member States.
Health care systems in the European Union should therefore be pursuing the objective of being simultaneously accessible, high in quality and financially viable.
Nevertheless, this responsibility is increasingly being exercised in an overall context that affects various Community policies.
For this reason, as has already been mentioned, the Barcelona European Council stressed the need to establish and develop closer cooperation between the Member States as regards social protection, exchanges of good practice and information, research, establishing common indicators and standards and the development of health and social services for the elderly.
Lastly, I believe that the Greek Presidency should examine the European Community strategy and action programme in the field of public health, with a view to the next European Council in the spring adopting the use of the open method of coordination and a precise timetable for cooperation between the Member States.
Mr President, we shall not be voting for this report as the rapporteur insists on the need for financial viability, which basically means that we have to restrict the level of spending in advance.
Beyond that, however, how can we talk about the future of health and care for the elderly without raising the problem of pensions?
How, therefore, could working-class pensioners, who, even as employees, received insufficient salaries, survive this permanent reduction in their purchasing power without it affecting their health and quality of care?
The report emphasises prevention.
We need not only to halt the reduction in the level of pensions, but we also need to ensure that, for all those who have worked their whole lives, retirement does not mean a reduction in their purchasing power.
The number of live births in the EU reached 3.99 million in 2002, which is 0.3% fewer than in 2001.
This figure will increase to just over 800 000 by 2011.
At the same time, 84% of all those in need of care - and this is the case in all countries - receive that care from members of their own family.
There is a need for a build-up of resources in personal environments and for more extensive support both for recipients of care and for their families.
Thank you very much, Mr Karas.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.07 p.m.)
