However, next year we expect inflation to fall back quickly to 2.4% in the EU and to decelerate further in 2010.
The basis of this strategy is set down in the communication entitled 'From financial crisis to recovery: A European framework for action', which indicates how the EU should tackle the next stages of the crisis in a united, coordinated manner.
Action should be geared towards three objectives: first, building a new financial market architecture at EU level; second, dealing with the impact on the real economy and, third, coordinating a global response to the financial crisis.
On 26 November, the Commission will propose a more detailed version of this EU recovery plan, under the umbrella of the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs.
My question is: will money be injected into public investment and public works over coming years? (DE) Madam Vice-President, when the latest information is available, rapid decision-making is needed.
Vice-President of the Commission. - The most important question right now is: what are the next steps for the Commission in the coming week to actually deal with the effects on the real economy?
As I said yesterday in the debate on the financial crisis, the Commission, for the first time, has managed within 24 hours to get proposals on the table.
We have all been instructed or we have all wanted to see in our respective policy areas how we can help, how we can overcome the long period to prepare, how we can do it more quickly, yet do it in a coordinated and respectful way.
The rules governing the driving of vehicles, as laid down in the Polish Road Traffic Act of 20 June 1997 (Official Journal No 108, 2005, Item 908, as amended), set the permissible blood alcohol level at 0.2 mg/l.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, in 1988 the Commission proposed a directive on the maximum rate of blood-alcohol permitted for drivers, but in the absence of an agreement between the Member States and the Commission, the Commission had to content itself with adopting, on 17 January 2001, a recommendation that a maximum rate of 0.5 mg/ml be imposed in all the Member States.
This means that much can and must be done by the European Union, and I therefore call once again upon Parliament to go forward in the direction already embarked upon through the vote in the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
One example of many is the campaign called 'Bob' which was very successful throughout Europe, and we should also remember the commitment of the Commission, which called Kimi Raikkonen, outgoing world Formula One champion, to Brussels to be a witness for the European Union's campaign for road safety, as well as the day dedicated to road safety in large cities which was held in Paris on 10 October, and which is a further indication of the European Commission's huge commitment on road safety.
We must be bold in tackling these projects. (DE) Mr Vice-President, I would like to take this brief opportunity to ask two questions.
I intend to continue to support all the DRUID projects and programmes - this is my response to the honourable Member - with regard to the issue of provision of information to young people, and educating young people.
We have a duty to start to educate young people, and therefore I am fully in agreement with your position and I will do all I can to ensure that programmes are always funded by the European Union and the Commission to educate young people at school.
Unfortunately, that is not the case, and we must work with schools, we must work with families, to ensure that all young people are shown the risks that they run every time they sit at the wheel and, above all, if they drink alcohol or take drugs.
Subject: Interinstitutional agreement on 'Communicating Europe in Partnership' On 22 October 2008, representatives of the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council signed the first ever political declaration on an interinstitutional agreement on communicating EU priorities.
Besides, it requires a political commitment of all actors, including Member States.
We have already identified and agreed to have four common priorities in 2009: the European elections, energy and climate change, the 20th anniversary of the democratic changes in Central and Eastern Europe and, of course, sustaining jobs, growth and solidarity in Europe.
Our representations have been instructed to devote the bulk of their modest communication means to the EP elections and, in fact, out of the decentralised monies that they have, they have allocated 60% to this task.
We also now have meetings at a technical level with your services in Parliament to compare notes on the different activities in the different Member States.
On 29 October, we adopted a framework focusing on dealing both with a crisis in the markets, preventing future crises through reforms of economic governance, and minimising the impact on jobs and growth.
Here, preparations are more advanced, as we have all known for some time that it would be a priority.
This will be partly achieved by the use of our central tools, including the use of audiovisual media and the internet, and complemented by many decentralised activities organised by the representations in each Member State in close cooperation with Parliament's information offices.
Those events should make people aware of the fact that the voter has a choice between different policy visions of Europe and that these choices will make a big difference to the lives of all our citizens. (EL) Mr President, my thanks to the Vice-President for her reply.
Actually I think that the political controversy and debate are good, because there are different versions, different programmes etc.
This is what we are trying to do now.
I repeat that I think we also have to look at using audiovisual media and the Internet more extensively in order to be effective and to reach out to young people. (ES) Please forgive me, but I did not hear the Commission Vice-President answer my questions.
Vice-President of the Commission. - I would like to stress that, on the Lisbon Treaty, the European Commission has worked through its representations and in close coordination with Member States to provide factual and objective information to EU citizens.
We also provided training and briefings for Commissioners, representation staff, Europe Direct information centres and other information multipliers.
Recognising the importance of the web, we have created a dedicated website with comprehensive information on the Lisbon Treaty which was launched in the 23 official languages.
As such, the citizens get tailor-made information in their language and which address their real concerns. (EL) Mr President, my thanks to the Vice-President.
Organise a debate with all the interested agencies with television coverage, so that the Irish people, the Irish electoral body can watch it and reply to their anxieties and questions in situ. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, for two months the political and media agendas have been dominated by the financial and economic crisis.
Can I also say as a former journalist - and this is terrible that I am saying this in public - I was brought here, and to the Commission, on many occasions, and the grey walls and the dull presentations did not stimulate my European genes.
Questions Nos 38 to 41 will receive written answers. (EL) Could the Vice-President please reply to my supplementary questions?
Vice-President of the Commission. - I think that maybe the President forgot to give me a chance to reply to your specific questions.
In response to the tragic events in Ceuta and Melilla and as part of the global approach approved by the European Council in late 2005, the European Union wanted a structured dialogue with Africa on the link between migration and development under the Rabat process in respect of the West African migratory route, shortly to be followed up by the Paris Conference on 25 November, and the Tripoli Process in respect of Africa as a whole.
The partnership on migration mobility and employment was launched at the December 2007 EU-Africa summit in Lisbon.
The Migration Information and Management Centre, inaugurated by the Development and Humanitarian Aid Commissioner and Malian President Touré in Bamako on 6 October, exemplifies the practical application of the integrated approach that the Commission is striving to promote.
I am sorry for raising it at this stage, but during the last session less than 15 minutes were given for three questions - 38, 39 and 40 - which were very much connected.
So apparently this is already on the agenda and the Commission is fully engaged in developing similar projects in other countries.
Vice-President of the Commission. - The Commission maintains regular direct contact with civil society in all countries of the world, including Cuba.
The Commission's role in Cuba is appreciated and supported by civil society and by opposition groups.
The Commission delegation in Cuba regularly receives representatives of civil society and opposition groups, and the Commission's departments in Brussels pursue an open-door policy vis-à-vis any person or organisation that wants a constructive discussion on Cuba or any other country.
The meeting that relaunched political dialogue between the European Union and Cuba, following the Council conclusions of 23 June which terminated the diplomatic measures adopted in 2003, was an EU ministerial troika meeting on Cuba in Paris on 16 October 2008.
The Members who tabled the other questions are not present, and therefore written answers will be given for Questions Nos 51 to 58.
The benchmark adopted by the Education Council in 2003, to increase by 15% the number of graduates in Member States and decrease gender imbalance by 2010, has been reached.
For the European Union, an additional factor here is that, due to the lower share of private research investments in Europe compared to other continents, the market for researchers in the EU is relatively smaller than those of our competitors.
This is, first and foremost, a competition between research and other economic sectors.
I have a supplementary question about the Seventh Framework Programme for Research, which has a package of EUR 54 million.
Mr Posselt, we had already seen that you had arrived, although slightly late.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission fully supports the analysis made by the honourable Member in his oral question.
We are the leader in green technology and we need to maintain and reinforce this position.
With the seventh Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development, the European Union is well equipped - and Parliament played its full role in its outcome - to mobilise EU R&amp;D funds in support of the development of new green technologies.
Two of the joint technology initiatives adopted so far are fully dedicated to green technologies: 'Clean Sky', with a European contribution of EUR 800 million; and 'hydrogen and fuel cells', with a contribution of EUR 450 million from the European Community.
In order to be able to monitor the contribution of FP7 to sustainable development, in general, and to green technology, in particular, the Commission is setting in place a monitoring system that should be operational in the first semester of next year.
In its Communication 'From financial crisis to recovery: A European framework for action', adopted on 29 October this year, the Commission also emphasises the role of R&amp;D investment and education as well as enhancing European competitiveness by continuing to green our economy.
Member of the Commission. - The answer is certainly 'yes'.
In the case of the use of this cloning technique in livestock reproduction and breeding in the agrofood sector, the questions are, in particular, related to animal health and welfare.
The JRC published a study in 2007 in Nature Biotechnology on the prospects for future commercial use of cloning technology.
In order to prepare for an informed political debate, in 2007, the Commission asked the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) to assess the actual and potential risks associated with the use of this technology in food production and also asked the European Group of Ethics (EGE) to issue an opinion on the ethical aspects of animal cloning for food supply.
The study showed that 58% of the respondents were against cloning for food production purposes.
The Commission is now carefully considering these various elements to prepare an informal political debate on the use of somatic cell nucleus transfer for the reproduction of farm animals and food production.
Subject: European Research Council On 27/28 February 2007, the European Research Council (ERC) was officially launched at an inaugural conference in Berlin hosted by the German EU Presidency.
The European Research Council, by supporting 'frontier research', puts particular emphasis on interdisciplinary projects and on pioneering research.
So far - and now I am talking about the progress - two calls for proposals have been implemented by the European Research Council, and Europe's research community has responded with huge enthusiasm.
A massive 9 167 proposals were submitted by young researchers in response to the Starting Independent Investigators Grants call last year and more than 2 000 proposals were received for the Advanced Investigators Grants call this year.
Member of the Commission. - The ethical review of research funded under the Seventh Framework Programme is a system that safeguards the protection of fundamental rights and respect for ethical principles.
To be precise, human embryonic stem cells research is allowed under conditions which were agreed and voted in the European Parliament and also in the Council.
