European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion (continuation of debate) Continuing the debate on the Report on the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, we now move on to speakers on behalf of the Groups.
The annual poverty reports in our Member States should set alarm bells ringing.
Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou has drafted a very good report - I can say that on behalf of the PPE-DE Group and on a very personal level too, Marie - which gives us the green light for the designation of 2010 as the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
The privatisation of public and social services also leads to an increase in the number of people living in poverty.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, let me begin by emphasising that I very much approve of the idea that political efforts to combat poverty and social exclusion should be brought into particularly sharp focus throughout Europe in 2010.
I have called for more funds to be allocated to this important initiative in the 2010 budget, since combating poverty and social exclusion is an unequivocal goal of the Lisbon Agenda, a goal which, sadly, has not been achieved at all.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the announcement that 2010 is to be the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion is a very good initiative from the Council.
The European Year for Combating Poverty will be an opportunity to review the situation in this regard and to mobilise Member States to undertake concrete steps to combat poverty and social exclusion.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, the Left Group in the European Parliament approves the report presented by our honourable colleague and hence endorses the goal of the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
The report very clearly spells out the wide implications of poverty and social exclusion, not only as a social problem but also, and more especially, as a personal problem for those caught in the poverty trap.
Several references have already been made to the 78 million people, including 19 million children, who are living in poverty within the European Union.
Political aims and a guaranteed individual right to live in freedom from poverty and social exclusion are on the agenda.
In Germany in particular, recent years have seen a fall in the level of low incomes but a rise in the number of people who earn them.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, I commend Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou.
Underlining the statistics in relation to the number of children at risk of poverty - 19 million in Europe - a greater emphasis needs to be put on enshrining the paramount importance of the family and, emanating from this, defending family life.
It is imperative that families be efficiently supported, both economically and socially, in order to alleviate the shameful modern predicament of child poverty in Europe. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, I note that the report we are discussing today refers expressly to eradicating rather than merely to combating poverty, as was actually proposed.
I therefore think it would be useful to make some reference to the recent Commission communication on the increase in the price of food products, for example.
Let me also say that I think the initiative to make 2010 the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion is an excellent one.
Just as Vladimir Špidla said, such a Year may increase awareness and knowledge of the structures present, but that is not enough.
I hope that this Year, besides increasing knowledge and awareness, may also be the starting point for concrete measures to reduce poverty in the EU. (PL) Mr President, the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion will be the high point of the 2005-2010 social agenda.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, in particular, for drawing attention to the issue of combating poverty. (SK) Mr President, Commissioner, I welcome the report by Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou, as well as the Commission's determination to continue to fight poverty.
It is no coincidence that all the other Members have mentioned the high figures, the millions of people who live at risk of poverty, but the most striking thing is the high number of children who are born into and live with the risk of poverty.
The problem is that poverty as well as social exclusion are inherited.
Let us hope that the European Year for Combating Poverty provides sufficient incentive for strengthening the principle of solidarity in national policies.
We therefore need a horizontal policy that provides decent jobs and educational opportunities, not only as part of this programme, but as part of all European Union programmes, so that solidarity remains at the heart of the Union and is not only addressed by economic policies. (PL) Mr President, it could be said that the data that we have collected really minimise the scale of the problem.
The various dimensions of social cohesion must be protected by means of EU and Member State commitment to eradicating poverty and combating social exclusion, promoting concrete action at the most varied levels.
In conclusion, Mr President, after thanking the rapporteur, I would say that 2010 will have to be a particularly effective year for combating poverty and social exclusion, a battle that must also be given a much needed higher profile. (PL) Mr President, I would like to draw attention to three issues in this debate.
Firstly, according to the latest European Commission report, in 2004 there were about 100 million EU citizens, that means 20% of the whole population, who were living on less than 60% of the average EU income, meaning they were living on less than 15 euro a day.
Thirdly, I would like to express the hope that 2010, as the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, will make all our decision makers aware that poverty and social exclusion have a destructive effect on economic growth and social development. (Applause) (RO) Dear Commissioner, dear colleagues, we are well aware of what the Commission reminds us: there is a huge number of Europeans who live in poverty, including extreme poverty.
The economic poverty of parents favours the cultural poverty of children, by reduced access to education, the political poverty, by low participation in or exclusion from decision-making, the social poverty, by low participation in civic activities and isolation.
It is a joint responsibility, including of companies that, for their own interest, should go beyond the stage in which the financing of a foundation for protecting stray dogs in the neighbourhood is the only expression of social responsibilities. (PL) Mr President, declaring 2010 to be the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion will not solve the problems experienced by the 80 million people in the European Union who live below the poverty line.
Of the 78 million citizens who live at risk of poverty, 19 million are children.
It is true that the European Union provides funds for fruits and dairy products in schools or money for the education of pupils, but I think we need a coherent strategy and actual programs designed for children coming from poor families.
I believe the allocated amount of 17 million Euros is insufficient in relation to the social inclusion and poverty fighting needs Europe presently has.
Looking round at the moment of celebrating 17 October in front of the European Parliament in Brussels, I see myself there with my colleague, Iñigo Méndez de Vigo, who leads this Parliament's delegation with the Fourth World.
I hope that on 17 October the European institutions will mark their strong solidarity with the slogan for that date: 'Wherever men and women are condemned to live in extreme poverty, human rights are violated.
To come together to ensure that those rights be respected is our solemn duty.' (SK) In all, 78 million people in the European Union live at risk of poverty.
They have proved that one of the most effective means of poverty reduction is an active labour market policy combined with the establishment of decent working conditions and strong social protection. (LT) I welcome the Commission's proposal to designate 2010 the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
Strengthening social integration, reducing poverty and combating social exclusion are some of the challenges faced by the EU, particularly when we take demographic changes into account, by which I mean an ageing population and an influx of migrants. (PT) It is not sufficient to establish a European Year for Combating Poverty when around 20% of the European Union's population is threatened with poverty.
We already know that the eradication of social exclusion and poverty will be a long and complex task, but if we make the most of each euro invested in this programme, if we are capable of reaching the groups of people that need most help, if we are capable of awakening the conscience of public opinion, we will be creating a new European citizenship.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the in-depth debate that touched upon many aspects of poverty.
The Commission is proposing financing totalling EUR 17 million and in the course of the debate we heard the opinion that funding of national projects should be increased, especially in some countries.
I agree with the amendments concerning the revision of the headings of objectives in Article 2 and in the list of priorities for the European Year, and I am also in favour of the amendments focusing on the issue of gender equality.
The Commission attaches the greatest importance to facilitating and supporting wide participation at all levels in activities connected with the 2010 European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion as a practical means of ensuring that its impact is positive and lasting.
I would like to thank her again for the report.
The Commission can only accept in substance, in part, and subject to rewording, the following amendments: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15, 18, 24, 25, 26, 30, 32, 37, 43, 44, 45, 50, 51, 52, 64 and 66.
More specifically, regarding Amendments 37 and 52, concerning the participation of small and medium-sized organisations and the possibility of cofinancing up to the total amount of the costs of certain projects, the Commission proposes - as a compromise solution - making a statement in that regard, which I shall read out to you, in which it undertakes to incorporate the spirit of the content of those two amendments in the framework strategy document that the Commission will be drawing up to define the main priorities of the European Year activities.
The Commissioner is in any case a historian and knows that the Emperor of Byzantium, an empire that lasted for 1 000 years in Europe, supported the fight against poverty in every speech he made.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (PL) Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou for an excellent report and particularly for drawing attention to the issue of poverty prevention.
I am in favour of designating 2010 as the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
In Europe 78 million people live in poverty and 19 million of these are children.
Poverty is caused by a significant increase in the prices of food and energy, which primarily affects families with many children as well as the elderly.
We should not ignore the fact that the ideas of solidarity, social justice, and eradication of poverty are challenges regarding not only the countries in the European Union, but also its involvement on the world economic and political scene.
I also consider important the correlation of the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion with the Millennium Development Goals and, in particular, the International Day for the Eradication Poverty.
Nevertheless, we must take action to combat poverty because in 2006 no less than 16% (78 million) of the total population of the twenty-five Member States of the European Union were living below the poverty threshold.
When the Lisbon Strategy was launched in March 2000, the Council of the European Union called upon the Member States and the Commission to take steps 'to make a decisive impact on the eradication of poverty' by 2010.
I welcome the fact that we have designated 2010 as the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
