Preparation of the European Council (11-12 December 2008) (debate) The next items are the statements by the Council and the Commission on the preparations for the European Council on 11 and 12 December 2008.
I should also like to say that, having welcomed Mr Guardans when he arrived at Roissy Airport, at European level, we must all learn lessons from our cooperation between the various consulates, and I echo your words Mr President; we must definitely improve coordination in this area at European level, even before a single diplomatic service is established.
They have a very full agenda: the future of the Treaty of Lisbon, Europe's response to the international economic and financial situation, the battle against climate change and the energy package are all due to be discussed.
With regard to the Treaty of Lisbon, we are in contact with the Commission, with our Irish friends.
Transpartisan work has been carried out in Ireland over the last few days, at which you were present, Mr President, representing the European Parliament.
You were also questioned by the Irish Parliament on this issue.
I believe that the work of this group is leading to three outcomes.
The first is that the Irish Members of Parliament believe that Ireland risks being marginalised to a certain extent in the European Union, and will subsequently suffer in the short and medium term.
We have been in contact, and between now and the end of the week there will be further contact with the Presidency of the Council, between Prime Minister Cohen, and President Sarkozy.
It is in this spirit that the Presidency will lead the work of the Council on 11 and 12 December.
The President of the Commission, Mr Barroso, will express this better than I can, the Commission adopted proposals for a European recovery plan on 26 November; these were examined at Monday's 'Competitiveness' Council and at the Council of Economic and Finance Ministers.
I should like to say that the Commission's proposals are a move in the right direction as far as the Presidency of the Council is concerned.
The Commission proposes a joint effort between what can be done at Community level and what is done in Member States, of up to EUR 200 billion, that is to say 1.5% of Community GDP.
We are well aware that the Community authorities cannot guarantee everything since their instruments are limited, particularly in terms of the budget, particularly with regard to allocations and that not everything can be done at Community level.
We are determined to obtain the most ambitious possible overall plan at this Council at its forthcoming meetings on 11 and 12 December.
With regard to the climate and energy package, Mr President, we will be holding a debate tomorrow in this Chamber.
On behalf of the Council, I should like to thank Parliament once again for its extremely constructive attitude in the dialogue that we have had on the energy and climate package.
Our aim is and will continue to be a first reading agreement between now and the end of the month.
The issue is that Europe, I repeat, must be ready to meet international timescales, bearing in mind the 2009 timetable, and must be ready to take the desired initiatives in Poznań, at the conference which has just opened, and in Copenhagen next November.
There have been a large number of substantial exchanges between your Chamber and Jean-Louis Borloo in order to successfully complete this negotiation.
We must incorporate two components: the first comprises being sufficiently flexible towards those countries that, bearing in mind their geographical situation and economic development, have to make efforts in the area of greenhouse gas emission reductions, and I am thinking in particular about our Central and Eastern European friends; the second component comprises finding, bearing in mind the economic crisis, the necessary flexibility for the industrial sectors that are most severely affected by these energy consumption problems.
These are the lines along which we are working very closely with the Commission and with other Member States, and we must all be united so that concrete results can be achieved and this package adopted between now and the end of the year.
This is why in the Council, Commission and Parliament, we must do absolutely everything within our power to reach these various goals successfully.
Because we are facing a large number of challenges, in particular, three major challenges, which can only be met if the three major European institutions - Parliament, the Council and the Commission - continue to collaborate, with each one fulfilling its role in the pursuit of our common aims: first of all to take decisive measures, which must be immediately implemented, to put Europe on the path to economic recovery, to provide a response to the crisis in the real economy; secondly, to demonstrate that Europe is equipping itself with the resources to become the world's leading low-carbon economy and that we can keep our position as world leader in the battle against climate change; and thirdly, to draw up a road map for the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I am sure there are lots of other areas I could mention, in particular in the field of external relations, where I should like to say that we in the Commission are today proud to have approved a communiqué which sets out the considerably ambitious aims for a real Eastern Partnership policy but, as time is short, I am now going to concentrate on those three challenges which I see as the greatest challenges for the European Council in December.
We said that we needed an economic response to the financial crisis and that this must be made in a coordinated fashion.
A consensus was broadly reached for this policy framework, being approved at the last informal European Council and by Parliament at its part-session last month.
But this policy framework also fed into the global strategy defined at the G20 summit, where it was used as a basis for discussion.
Finally, the approach recommended by this reference framework policy was adopted by Member States when defining their own courses of action.
As well as providing detailed implementation methods, the European plan for economic recovery, as presented by myself last week, elevated this coordination to a new level of ambition.
The implementation of this plan must enjoy the same sustained dialogue as its preparation.
By proposing to inject EUR 200 billion to kick-start our economy, our recovery plan, which comprises ten detailed priorities, shows a degree of common action that is unprecedented at European level.
We therefore have to confess that it is no easy task, that it is really quite difficult to find, from an intellectual and also obviously from a political point of view, an economic response for 27 countries with such different starting points.
This is why we have not defined a one-size-fits-all plan, but a coordinated plan, based on the instruments already at our disposal in Europe, the Stability and Growth Pact and the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs, but by defining the common aims to be pursued in a coordinated fashion for economic recovery.
I believe that it is at the same time both ambitious and realistic; putting forward ambitious proposals that have no chance of being approved is pointless.
But above all, I invite you to explain to our fellow citizens how the European Union is providing protection, not by taking action on behalf of States, but quite the reverse, by increasing the effectiveness of the actions taken by States, combining our efforts to stimulate demand and restore confidence for the benefit of all our citizens.
You have proven time and again that your input is indispensable, not only for the democratic legitimacy of European legislation, but also for its effectiveness.
I believe that the European Union has shown a lot of maturity in responding to the 'no' vote in Ireland, by respecting the outcome, and by giving the Irish authorities the time to digest and analyse, time to work out how to address this situation.
There remains a need to respect the decisions of the 25 national parliaments which have ratified.
Let us use the next few weeks to leave a legacy of a stronger, more ambitious European Union for the future. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Jouyet, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council next week will mainly be examining the response to the current economic crisis, and I should first like to pay tribute to the work of the European Commission.
Since the start of the financial crisis, it has presented a large number of documents aimed at reforming the global financial architecture.
The recovery plan presented last week, which we welcome, is in addition to all these measures and represents a suitable tool for responding to our current difficulties.
The economy and social cohesion in our countries constitute a fundamental priority.
The measures that have become necessary as a result of our current problems must not jeopardise our future.
Indeed, this strategy is the best guarantee of preserving our social model; any other strategy would be irresponsible.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, we now have 17 million unemployed in Europe.
Unless we do something, we will have 21 million unemployed in Europe within a year, and 25 million unemployed at the beginning of 2010.
On 14 November, this Group said that we need to have a clear goal, and the Socialist and Social Democrat Party said the same at the weekend.
We need the Council and the Commission to acknowledge what Martin Luther King called 'the fierce urgency of now'.
The Presidency should tell us which Member States were against.
Now the Taoiseach must come forward with a concrete plan and a clear time frame for moving forward, because Europe's citizens want an effective European Union.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, One week before the delegation from the European Parliament leaves for Poznań, it should be assessed whether what the Commission now keeps repeating is really true, namely that the reaction to the crisis of the real economy and to the crisis in the financial markets is linked to an ambitious climate protection strategy.
I would like to speak very briefly on the issue of the economic recovery plan because that, in a lot of ways, is what concerns the citizens and the people most with regard to how we are going to react and respond to the unprecedented global issues which have befallen us over the last number of months.
I welcome the Commission's recovery plan and proposal.
It does dovetail and fit nicely into what the Member States are already doing and, indeed, what the Member States agreed to do under a coordinated plan under the French Presidency.
What this issue brings about more than anything else is a recognition that, yes, we have independence, yes, we can do things individually but, when we act collectively, when we come together and bring the great brains, innovation, talent and energy of the 27 Member States together, then you can truly change the world with that individual collective effort.
I congratulate Commission President Barroso and the President of the Council for allowing us to mature in 2008 as a European Union, to respond as adults to what were severe crises and criticisms with regard to Europe's ability to react.
That brings me on to the second point that we will discuss in the Council, the issue of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Obviously there are huge concerns amongst many people with regard to how we are going to resolve the issues that are left over because of the failure to ratify Lisbon in every Member State.
These are the same shadowy figures who like to hide in the darkness and claim there is a better way, but never say what that better way is; the very same people who never put forward what is best for Irish interests and European interests, but merely something for a small political gain for themselves.
The economic crisis which faces us demonstrates that now more than ever public services and workers' rights need to be protected from unfettered and unregulated market forces.
This, especially given the failure to hold a debate in the Chamber, is a very slender basis on which to produce a common position.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Madam President, President of the Commission, Group Chairmen, honourable Members, firstly, I refer to what Mr Daul said and like him I wish to pay tribute to the work which has been done by the Commission, particularly with regard to the strengthening of financial architecture: in fact, there are now four major directives, which were able to be tabled by the Commission and approved by the Council of Economic and Finance Ministers within a very short period of time since September.
Joseph Daul was absolutely right to highlight this work and also quite right to highlight the need to restore confidence and provide a show of confidence by our attitude.
Therefore, I should like to thank him on this count and also say that we have indeed initiated the institutional road map and that I have seen the concerns he expressed and the concerns of his group in this area.
I do not think that I need to say it again to the President-in-Office of the Council, but I shall ask him to act even more quickly.
I said that the package from the Commission was consistent, that it contained several goals that had been fixed at the appropriate time, not by the French Presidency, and that these goals will have to be respected.
We likewise owe a duty of solidarity in this area towards developing countries.
I wish to say to Mrs McDonald that we are familiar with the electoral and social context in Ireland, that we can equally understand Ireland, and that no cynical manoeuvring is involved in all this or in the dialogue we have had with the Irish authorities and that each side is trying to be constructive so that, as highlighted by President Barroso, we can stay on course, a course which, as the crisis clearly demonstrates, is still absolutely necessary with regard to the institutional context and the Treaty of Lisbon.
This is fully compatible with the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs.
As we have said in our communication, we will ask for a new convergence programme for the Member States in the framework of the Stability and Growth Pact and we also have our exercise in the European strategy, that is the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs.
So with the Lisbon country-specific recommendations - and we are going back to this immediately after the European Council on 18 December - and with the new stability and convergence programmes, we will be sure that Member States will also coordinate the way they implement it.
It is important to get agreement with our governments in a cross-national, cross-party dimension if we want to succeed.
This is the question because traditionally, as you know, there is great resistance by Member States to the very idea of coordination.
This will be the position of the European Commission which I will bring to the European Council.
May I put on record not only our condemnation of those atrocities, but also our thanks to the French Presidency in particular, for the prompt action and protection which they afforded to the Members of the European Parliament on that delegation, including my own British colleagues.
The Council has a full agenda: the economic and financial crisis, the Treaty of Lisbon, climate change and the future of the CAP.
He has also announced giveaways of GBP 20 billion, while taking back GBP 40 billion in higher taxes.
Parliament supports the French Presidency at the summit next week in finally obtaining clarity regarding ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon.
That would be an invitation to all Europe's opponents to take undue advantage of these elections for a show fight, for the For and Against regarding a treaty which has already been ratified by 25 States.
The Parliament here appeals to the profound generosity of the Irish people and to their sharp intelligence to see the seriousness of the consequences of a second 'no'. (PL) Madam President, Poland has done a lot towards finding a compromise on the climate change package.
As regards the plan to patch up gaps in the financial crunch by means of money injections - they are apparently going on in my country too - I think one may put it where the moon does not shine. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the government leaders of the various countries of the Union will next week reject the Commission's proposal for a unified response to the economic crisis.
It negotiated a ceasefire and ensured that observers arrived in Georgia in good time, and the European Union was at the centre of events.
We saw that our Brussels instruments for crisis management had really reached the limit of their capability on this occasion.
It is quite clear that we must further improve both the capabilities of the European Union in preventive analysis and the instruments of crisis management.
However, even more important than adapting the security strategy is the implementation of this security strategy.
Perhaps the French White Paper which has been drawn up on this topic might serve as a model, for here we need a very broad debate on the preparation of this White Paper - a public debate on these matters of European security.
This is particularly so, and more important than ever, in the current financial and economic crisis.
Irish citizens, however, need assurances that the 'no' camp's misleading claims concerning the Treaty of Lisbon on the Commission, on abortion, on conscription, on military neutrality, on workers' rights and on public services have no basis in fact.
A simple extension of that right from 2014 to 2019 will not, in my view, be sufficient to ensure ratification in Ireland.
I was pleased by its proposed review, but it is important to ensure that the new pact does not quickly become yet another fiction and yet another reason for undoubted embarrassment.
Now, in the same way that we are carrying out a health check on the common agricultural policy, we ought also to carry out a health check on directives and regulations, to see whether there are not too many bureaucratic obstacles for our businesses, and whether the implementation of these regulations and directives in the Member States has not become too bureaucratic.
The historic change brought about by electing the charismatic and very active President Sarkozy is indisputably positive.
The financial crisis also erupted in that period, to which the French promptly responded by proclaiming the need for a systemic solution and revision of the Union's control and financial mechanisms, including from the global standpoint.
It was during the French Presidency that the European Union earned the reputation of an active player in world politics, when the G8 and G20 summits were convened upon the initiative of the French President and President Barroso.
We, the Union, need friends around us, but also for them to be friends among themselves.
Expanding and upgrading relations, political and economic, with our eastern neighbours will contribute to our economic dynamics and political and international influence. (SV) Madam President, the most important task facing European politicians in the years ahead is to safeguard employment and welfare.
Where short-term efforts are concerned, it is important that consumers have confidence in the economy.
As far as the more long-term solutions are concerned, it is important not only to bring forward investments that would have been made anyway in a more environmentally sound infrastructure and environmentally sound building, but also those which develop the skills of wage-earners, so that we are in a strong position in the future.
We must combine our instruments at European level with coordinated efforts in the Member States.
We must act quickly and with sufficient force. (PL) Madam President, the topics to be discussed at the forthcoming European Council meeting include the climate change package.
It is hard to believe that the Union's decision-makers are unable to appreciate these implications.
The result of this action is foreseeable: within a short time the sellers will in practice take over inter alia Polish power stations.
This comes on the back of a major crisis of confidence in our banking systems, due to their failure to sustain the acceptable level of liquidity required to underpin day-to-day commercial and industrial business operations in all our Member States.
The fact that the world climate conference is being held in Poznań demonstrates Poland's willingness to participate in the process of reducing carbon emissions.
We do however need time to change our energy management systems and are counting on the solidarity of the entire European Union on this matter. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take a different approach.
Let us create coherent, efficient, professional legislation in response to the financial crisis.
I am in favour, with my group's consent, and President Barroso has already been directly authorised to do this, of Member States relying on their own reserves, holding in return a European bond to be traded on the markets.
All of this is carried out outside the Maastricht Treaty, along with an appropriate recovery plan. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this financial crisis is certainly unprecedented; however, in my view, this could have been and ought to have been predicted and avoided.
The economic crisis, as previously described by President Barroso, has been 'sudden and unexpected'.
The European plan which you, Commissioner, have drawn up for EUR 200 billion is, I must say, inadequate.
Let us also mention the European Central Bank for a moment.
In my opinion, the European Central Bank should cut the interest rate tomorrow by one percentage point.
We need to move in this direction in the European institutions and the Member States, including ourselves in the European Parliament.
Perhaps we need to equip ourselves to give more support to the courage which the Commission is currently demonstrating. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the French Presidency of the Council for having pointed out and solved many problems during difficult times in recent months.
You, Mr President, have stated that it is a very responsible, far-sighted and intelligent report which includes concerns but also shows ways in which we Europeans can solve this problem together.
I should like to invite the French Presidency to undertake the development of a roadmap which makes it possible to include and take seriously the Irish positions and concerns which have nothing to do with the Treaty, such as the question of commissioners, but also ways out of the democratic deficit which they themselves wish to remedy by means of better relations between Parliament and government in Ireland.
I think that we should take this path to encourage our Irish friends and that, in doing so, we should have a schedule in mind to avoid the possibility of us falling behind as a result of the British elections being brought forward.
As we speak, Condoleezza Rice is over there, but where is Javier Solana?
Europe should and could do more, especially by looking at agreements such as its strategic partnership with India and by adequately resourcing the sentiments expressed there, so they can be achieved and realised. (FI) Mr President, the summit is to consider how the Treaty of Lisbon should be implemented.
During the French Presidency France could hardly object to the idea on the basis that the Commission would be too big, when we know that 37 ministers currently sit in the French Government.
In my opinion, it would bring the Member States closer and increase legitimacy, and I would hope that people will see sense on this and reverse earlier decisions, especially since they were not entirely rational. (PL) Mr President, from the date when the Kyoto Protocol was signed, Poland has reduced its carbon emissions by 33%.
At the same time, mitigating the impact of the financial crisis by depriving 80 000 Polish shipyard workers of their jobs is a truly extraordinary idea.
I might have got angry with some of the comments from my colleague from Sinn Féin in relation to the Treaty of Lisbon.
Honestly you should bite back, because it is ironic that Sinn Féin should talk about public services, which are run by bureaucrats, and yet condemn the very bureaucrats of these institutions.
I would like to thank the French Presidency and the European Commission for the way in which they have acted swiftly and skilfully in responding to the problems caused by the global economic and financial crisis.
Similarly, energy security and the energy and climate change package need to be included on the European Council's agenda.
For this reason, Member States need to be supported in making substantial investments aimed at modernising installations in the industries heavily involved in the energy sector, boosting productivity and developing the transport infrastructure.
We have worked hard with the Secretariat General of the European Parliament with regard to your representatives and the Government officials who were there, but I have to say, as has been highlighted several times, we must continue to work on better coordination between consulates and local diplomatic services in this type of crisis, in what is happening for that matter in Thailand at the moment.
These aspects of European security and defence policy are, as you well know, important, and the French Presidency wishes to ensure that we can make progress in this area and that a clear direction can be taken in this area also before the year is out.
We shall demonstrate this, we shall propose a balanced solution that will enable us to move forward and progress together, and I say together, towards the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon, when the time is right, but I fully understand the timetable constraints of our Irish friends.
It is true that what is needed in this area is to demonstrate more effort, including in terms of communication.
With regard to everything that has been said, in particular by our Polish friends, in relation to the climate and energy package, we obviously have to take account of the specific situation, as I have said, of those countries with more problematic energy structures, in order to meet the targets.
The French Presidency is doing everything in its power to achieve the necessary compromises, while retaining these targets, but rest assured that we are taking on board the specific characteristics of Poland, other Central and Eastern European countries and the Baltic States and their requests in the area of energy security.
I wish to say to Mrs Doyle, who also highlighted this fact in her speech, that as she is aware, codecision-making is actually a key concern of the French Presidency.
I should like to say to Mrs Belohorská that everything you have said will be accurately reported to President Sarkozy, and I should like to thank her for what she has said concerning the French Presidency and its actions, and finally to say to Mr Wolski, that everything relating to our neighbours is important, and we shall discuss the Eastern Partnership Proposal, which is an excellent proposal produced by the European Commission, at the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs on Monday, at the 'External Relations' Council, and, of course, at the European Council.
There are two specific questions that I would like to answer initially and then perhaps I will focus on the Treaty of Lisbon.
We have three central and linked issues to resolve in the next month - which have clearly come to the fore: the Economic Recovery Plan, where decisive EU action can have a real impact on Europe's social and economic well-being over the coming year; the climate and energy package, which will put Europe on track to lead the world in defining a credible, achievable path to a low-carbon future; and the Treaty of Lisbon, where we need to set out the way forward to achieving a Treaty so that Europeans can enjoy the benefits of a more democratic and efficient European Union.
The excellent report that we have now received from the Irish Parliament's special sub-committee makes a very important contribution to clarifying these concerns and also outlining possible options for resolving them.
The Commission intends to do what it can to work with the Parliament and the Irish authorities to improve communication on Europe in Ireland.
However, I also made it clear that my impression from talking to different Member States was that there was no appetite for re-opening an institutional settlement that has taken seven years of long and arduous negotiations to reach a compromise, and that the 25 Member States that have now ratified the Treaty, many of whom had previously ratified the Constitution - and two by referendums, remember - are not going to want to start that process again.
Next week's European Council should give us a clear road map to take this process forward with a sense of urgency.
We will try to contribute to this in the best way we can as a Commission.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (PT) The leaders of the European Union are not accepting the popular vote in the only referendum that it was possible to hold - because it was required by their own national constitution - on the draft Treaty of Lisbon in which the people repeated the NO decision that the peoples of France and the Netherlands had already made regarding the European Constitution.
This new direction must reject what President Sarkozy calls recasting capitalism and must say no to the policy of Economic and Monetary Union, along with the associated Stability Pact and false autonomy of the European Central Bank (ECB).
in writing. - (PT) The upcoming European Council will constitute another stage in the unacceptable process of imposing a draft treaty, already rejected three times by the peoples of Europe.
in writing. - I would like to remind the Council and also the Commission that the EU is based on the basic values, such as democracy, rule of law and respect for human rights.
I would like to emphasise the importance of certain provisions in this plan, particularly those relating to the adoption of measures aimed at improving energy efficiency in existing homes and public buildings.
