Framework for Community action to achieve a sustainable use of pesticides - Placing of plant protection products on the market (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: by Christa Klass, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the framework directive to achieve a sustainable use of pesticides (06124/5/2008 - C6-0323/2008 -; by Hiltrud Breyer, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the placing of plant protection products on the market (11119/8/2008 - C6-0326/2008 -.
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner Vassiliou, Commissioner Dimas, ladies and gentlemen, today we have the result of many discussions and negotiations, which were, at times, conducted with great emotion, and we will have the opportunity to vote on this tomorrow.
Further scientific support will be necessary in order to analyse the effects of this new legislation.
First of all, therefore, sincere thanks to all those who contributed to this positive result with constructive proposals, my fellow members here in Parliament, the European Commission, the French Presidency of the Council - it is a pity that the Czech Presidency of the Council is not here this evening - but thanks also to the staff.
They must be used correctly in order to be effective - the right product and the right dosage at the right time.
The Member States will establish measures in their national action plans to reduce the use of plant protection products.
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement represents a milestone, a milestone for European health protection and consumer protection but also for the environment and the economy.
We have adopted 200 amendments at first reading in the European Parliament and attempted to decisively improve the common position with this agreement.
However, I am also particularly pleased that the European Parliament has succeeded in anchoring bee protection as a licensing criterion for the first time.
I am also pleased that we have succeeded in including animal protection in this regulation and that we were able to establish more transparency, although I would have expected more courage from the Commission.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Madam President, first of all I should like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Klass, the rapporteur, Mrs Breyer, and the parliamentary Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety on their excellent work on the proposals on the framework directive on a sustainable use of pesticides and to revise and improve the regulation.
The fact that agreement was achieved at second reading is particularly gratifying.
That is why we needed, firstly, to make the current legislative framework stricter by amending the 1991 Directive on the placing of specific products on the market and, secondly, to plug the gaps at Community level in the use of these products.
In achieving agreement on the directive, the European Union has proven that it has the political will to take effective measures to protect public health and the environment.
Parliament helped to make the directive more ambitious than the Council's common position on certain important points.
The agreement reached represents significant progress in the protection of public health and the environment in the European Union.
The European Commission is therefore in a position to accept the compromise package of amendments in order to reach agreement on the directive at second reading.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, first of all, I wish to thank the rapporteurs Mrs Klass and Mrs Breyer, the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive approach to the proposal, the French presidency, and all of you who have contributed to the successful conclusion of the second reading of the Commission's proposal.
Plant protection products play an important role in agriculture, horticulture, forestry and gardening.
However, they can also have an impact on human health, animal health and the environment.
The top priority was - and still is - to achieve the highest possible level of protection for human and animal health, and the environment.
The draft compromise before us today would strengthen this high level of protection through several provisions.
To promote sustainability in agriculture, safer alternatives would substitute the more hazardous products.
As part of the overall compromise, I would like to propose the following text in relation to the risk assessment to bees: 'When revising the data requirements for active substances and plant protection products, as referred to in Article 8(1) (b) and (c), the Commission will pay particular attention to study protocols allowing a risk assessment which takes into account the real exposure of bees to these products, in particular through nectar and pollen.' The draft compromise would create an even safer framework for the use of plant protection products in the European Union, and would strengthen our environmental safeguards, and the protection of our citizens' health.
This is, of course, totally unacceptable and I am therefore extremely pleased that we will now be rid of these dangerous substances in pesticides.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, here we find ourselves, I hope, on the verge of adopting this pesticide package.
The advances for health and environmental protection are very significant; in the long term, the most dangerous substances will be replaced by less harmful ones.
The compromise text also takes account of the issue of bees and of their crucial role in the ecosystem.
The three-zone system guarantees Member States the possibility of authorising a larger number of products.
There is also the review clause, which calls on the European Commission to analyse the impact of this legislation on the diversification and the competitiveness of agriculture.
To conclude, I should like to point out that plant protection products are medicines for plants and thus should be used only in a controlled and judicious manner.
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and well done in particular to our two rapporteurs, Mrs Klass and Mrs Breyer, who were excellent negotiators in the search for a compromise with the Council.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Madam President, we are speaking in this Chamber on the eve of a vote which is a critical one for agriculture, health and environment.
We have increased residues in our air, water and food, which affect our health and environment.
Also note, it is our farmers who are in most direct contact with pesticides.
The intention of this legislation, which I applaud, is to protect our citizens' health and environment and agriculture.
The removal of an estimated 22 substances, including Mancozeb and Opus, will affect product availability.
The Commission, the experts, will come up with the proper scientific basis for endocrine disruptors in four years.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the dialogue on these measures - the pesticides directive and regulation - has been very difficult.
There has been debate in Parliament, but above all strong resistance in the Council, and economic powers have been mobilised in force in defence of vested interests.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, the debate about the sustainable use of plant protection products and their admission on the market is a particularly complex one.
What is important are the options, not quantity.
Thirdly, I welcome the fact that Member States have sufficient flexibility to determine how buffer zones around watercourses are handled.
We are conscious today that, although plant protection products have enabled a significant increase in agricultural production, in some instances they also have a very negative impact on health and the environment.
In certain regions a particularly rapid increase in various types of cancer has actually been observed.
Today we are also seeing an increase in soil erosion, which could jeopardise the agricultural use of many areas of land across the European Union in the decades to come.
The European Union is reacting to confront these risks; that is good, but it should also support farmers in a move to reduce, if not eliminate, harmful pesticides.
The future common agricultural policy should integrate this objective and take better account financially of the link between high-quality production and agriculture.
It shows the way for further improvements in the sector, towards more efficient and safer plant protection products, and is flexible enough to avoid situations in which the ban on certain pesticides would, in the final analysis, reduce the irreproachability of agricultural products.
Even if pesticides, in contrast to chemicals, are intended to be toxic and their safety assessment is therefore a special case, it does not mean that redundant animal testing should take place or that scientific knowledge cannot develop in ways that will identify further redundancies and that further potential reduction in animal testing will be possible in future.
It should be noted that development and registration of new agricultural pesticides or plant protection products can use upwards of 12 000 animals in dozens of separate and often overlapping tests. - (PL) Madam President, pesticides are harmful to the environment and to animals.
I should like to point out that the conditions in which old pesticides are stored in many countries are such that the products represent a danger to the environment and to human beings.
It will be impossible for poor countries to deal with this matter without Union aid.
Other important issues are placing the pesticides on the market, scientific research in this area and all types of action to reduce the impact of pesticides on health and the environment whilst still proving effective.
I should like to thank Mrs Klass and Mrs Breyer very much for the reports they have prepared.
I should also like to point out that these directives make a great deal of sense, provided that they are effectively implemented and become part of agricultural practice.
The Union for Europe of the Nations Group supports the directive. (NL) Madam President, the Directive on the sustainable and risk-reducing use of pesticides and the Regulation concerning the placing of pesticides on the market are both extremely necessary and useful.
The compromises that are before us on this subject are honourable, with due consideration for the farming world.
The lack of a thorough impact assessment, taking into account effects on our environment, health, economy and the sustainability of our rural communities, is testament to this failure to apply sufficient rigour.
The use of poisons such as alcohol and tobacco must be an individual decision.
We should be very strict when it comes to poisons of this kind.
I therefore recommend that the House vote in favour of this excellent compromise. - (FR) Madam President, I should of course like to congratulate our rapporteurs, then to commend the agreement that has been reached thanks to the remarkable work that they have accomplished with the help of the European Commission and of the Council.
The reduction objective contained in the agreement, with the abolition of carcinogenic and genotoxic substances, is therefore very important.
With this text, there can no longer be any confusion between the concepts of danger and of risk.
I will be voting against this because worse is better and, when the message gets out, we in Britain will leave the EU. (NL) Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs alike.
The compromise that has been reached is, to my mind, a step in the direction of more sustainable farming, and this is desperately needed.
This is why it is important to narrow the chasm between regular and organic farming in a responsible manner.
First of all, some of the most dangerous chemical pesticides are being banned.
Secondly - and this is at least as important - incentives have been included in the legislation to promote the development of more sustainable products and products for minor crops.
Minor crops are crops that are only cultivated in small amounts, such as tomatoes, Brussels sprouts and tulips.
A third measure that is also of significance is that Member States should, in this context, make plans to reduce the risks involved in using the remaining chemical pesticides.
These are all measures that benefit the environment and public health.
It is important to bear in mind that, although the some 800 chemical molecules concerned undeniably play a role in protecting crops against pests, there are many people today who are against exposing populations to avoidable health risks, and I am specifically thinking, of course, of farmers, who are more exposed than others to certain harmful substances, CMRs and endocrine disrupters.
The figures from the WHO are edifying: one million incidences of serious poisoning by pesticides, with some 220 000 deaths each year.
To conclude, Madam President, this pesticide package is modern because the integrated management of pesticides is an essential strand of a new agricultural policy, one that, for Europe, involves having fewer, but better, pesticides. - (PL) Madam President, I should like to highlight three issues in the course of the debate on the reports on the sustainable use of pesticides and placing plant protection products on the market.
It is crucial for this directive to bring about a significant reduction in the use of chemical pesticides, not least through the promotion of sustainable alternative solutions such as organic farming and biopesticides.
It is more necessary than ever that we start with a full impact assessment. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of the trialogue between the Council, Parliament and the Commission, the text adopted on 18 December on the pesticide package seems to be well-balanced.
Having followed this matter closely, I am pleased with the result obtained, as it will allow farmers to pursue their economic activity without being penalised by the total elimination of pesticides and plant protection products, which will be strictly controlled.
To conclude, we will always stand by farmers in defending their tool of work and their irreplaceable role in society, which consists first and foremost in feeding their fellow men and then in preserving the countryside and in developing the land to everyone's satisfaction.
The result achieved in the trialogue will create the preconditions for this.
The new Plant Protection Regulation is a great step towards more consumer and health protection.
The result of the trialogue is a giant step forward compared to the result of our Parliament at the first reading.
Almost 80% of all active substances will no longer be affected but only those that constitute a risk to human health or the environment, and this is on a scientific basis.
In future, there will no longer be 27 national licensing authorities but only 3 licensing zones for licensing plant protection products.
The presence of a high level of pesticides in the food consumed in the European Union results from the dependency on these chemical products which, although necessary to help control any infestation and boost production efficiency, can have adverse effects on public health.
For this reason, the proposals for implementing integrated pesticide management, the use of alternative substances and risk management will help yield suitable agricultural products which take into account the environment and public health safety, thereby reducing dependency on plant protection products.
It will also ensure a balance between the availability of plant protection products and, by implication, a sufficient quantity of food products, as well as help maintain European farmers' competitiveness and increase the level of protection for the environment and health. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, plant protection products were, and still are, essential agricultural resources.
I find it regrettable that we are not permitting any impact assessment of the agreement now reached. - (PL) Madam President, our work on a further series of tasks aimed at regulating issues important for human health within the European Union is drawing to a close.
I would also like to say thank you, at this point, to all those involved.
The dossier was, as we are hearing in this debate, created with a great deal of emotion, but nevertheless it succeeded in reconciling the different protection aims which we are pursuing with this legislation.
It is also important that the use of pesticides in Natura 2000 areas and in bird sanctuaries is reduced to a minimum.
However, this is a compromise which should be supported by everybody. - (PL) Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs on their excellent reports.
Time is short, so I shall only refer to the report by Mrs Klass and highlight certain shortcomings of the proposed directive.
The directive lays down a training and certification system for distributors and professional users of pesticides.
The directive also retains the regulations of the system of technical control and maintenance of equipment for the application of pesticides based on national legislation.
I should like to thank the rapporteurs and particularly Mrs Klass and Mrs Hennicot-Schoepges for their efforts in this respect.
Hungary will oppose this report in Council, and the Hungarian Members of the European Parliament do likewise, because it is damaging to European agriculture.
So I bow to neither side nor extreme of this debate this evening, particularly those who fail to see the need for plant protection products in food production and those who say that these two pieces of legislation are a disaster for farming and the food production in Europe.
Yes, some ingredients used in chemicals are very hazardous, but the risks of using them depend on how they are used and depend on compliance with maximum residue levels (MRLs) in our food.
The questions are: will the agrochemical industry respond and produce new products?
It is just not tenable that the Commission can sit here and say that we will ban the use of substances in Europe but that those outside the European Union can continue to send us food using those substances.
It must be said that European farmers are fully aware that particular attention must be paid to human health and to the protection of the environment when using plant protection products.
However, the industry is deeply concerned because the European Parliament does not understand the impact that this regulation may have in the future.
Assessments of its potential impact indicate that, due to the unavailability of plant protection products in the future, it is going to be very difficult to control pests and diseases that affect the cultivation of many foods - specifically, all Mediterranean produce - as well as the cultivation of ornamental plants and cut flowers.
In this directive it is stipulated that Member States may include provisions on the notification of neighbours in their national action plans.
Much of this legislation will affect our crops - not only wheat, as Robert Sturdy has said, but potatoes in particular.
Further to what Robert Sturdy has said, many of these pesticides and fungicides we are using, if they are used properly and you have the proper withdrawal period, pose no problems, and by using these particular chemicals we can produce very good food.
I would invite the agrochemical industry and their CERP community to look into and invest in this area.
After all, it is the Member States that have to implement these measures in the final instance, and it is the Member States that have the resources in terms of local representatives to explain these matters to farmers.
Any proposal must have balance for consumers, farmers and the environment, but we must also make sure that the correct information is made available to all of the stakeholders. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, as a doctor I am acutely aware that it is our duty to European consumers to eliminate crop treatment substances that are shown to be harmful on the basis of scientific evidence.
Now we have these proposals on pesticides.
I am also pleased with the compromise reached on aerial spraying.
One does not need to be a plant protection expert to be horrified at the thought that Hungary, for instance, would fall within the same zone as Ireland, which has very different weather and agricultural production conditions. (DE) Madam President, I would like to address a subject which has not yet been discussed today in this connection.
Tomorrow's vote in Parliament will conclude three years of work.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Madam President, I should like to thank everyone who took the floor during today's debate for their very constructive speeches.
Under these national action plans, the Member States are also obliged to monitor the use of pesticides which have on occasion caused specific problems and to set targets for reducing the use of certain pesticides.
This represents significant progress which, in addition to protecting the health of European citizens and the environment, will bring about financial benefits, due to the reduction in national health spending, and the benefit of a reduction in the use of pesticides under the new legislation.
As far as the ban on aerial spraying is concerned, a compromise solution has been found on the processing of exemption requests.
All the innovative aspects of the proposal have been retained, in particular the approval criteria, which will ensure that dangerous substances which pose a high risk to public health are eliminated or substituted by safer alternatives, improved mutual recognition, and the substitution of some products by safer alternatives.
According to the Commission's estimate, only 4% of the substances currently on the market would disappear because they are endocrine disruptors and only 2% because they are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to production.
The total number of active substances which are currently on the market and which possibly would not be approved under the new regulation is expected to be less than 25 substances.
Moreover, I would like to point out that the new criteria will apply to substances already approved only upon renewal of their approval, and for most of them the renewal date is 2016.
Coming back to the directive which we are hopefully about to adopt, the Commission considers the final compromise to be properly balanced, to achieve the objectives of health and environmental production, as well as to ensure the availability of pesticides to farmers.
However, we must also ask ourselves how we deal with these new discoveries, what we do with them.
It is not enough to say that four substances no longer apply or two substances no longer apply and there are only 25 substances in total.
This means that bananas coming from Costa Rica and treated with carcinogenic substances that we have put on the index and that are therefore banned are illegal within the European Union.
Their cousins outside the European Union can use these products.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I and the Commissioner both explained the situation very clearly.
However, the compromise agreement states that the new legislation would only gradually replace the existing EU law, and that pesticides already approved under current rules would remain available until their existing authorisation expires.
If voted, the report will be a step towards better health through environmental protection and a means of allowing the EU to move on to a better system without further delays.
I welcome the compromise text on the sustainable use of pesticides and I would like to congratulate Mrs Klass for the fine work she has done.
The compromise text proves to us that this is not the case.
However, the measures adopted with this aim must be reasonable and take into account both production quality and achieving maximum harvests.
As Mrs McGuiness noted in the report presented at the end of last year to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the price of wheat has risen by 180% in two years, while food prices in general have risen globally by 83%.
The provisions concerning mutual recognition and the zoning system have been accepted by Romania, given that clauses have been included in the text, allowing Member States (MS) to take measures aimed at adapting the terms for authorising plant protection products (PPP) in order to take into account the specific conditions, along with clauses refusing recognition in specific justified cases.
