Protection of animals at the time of killing (debate) - The next item is the report by Mr Wojciechowski, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council directive on the protection of animals at the time of killing - C6-0451/2008 -.
The new regulation, in place of the old 1993 directive, means obvious progress in realisation of the idea of animal protection, and therefore as rapporteur I endorse the regulation.
This is contained in Amendment 28.
Firstly, measures to introduce higher standards of animal protection at the time of killing should obtain financial support from the European Union.
I am glad that Parliament is doing so much for animal protection, and I am glad that I can be part of it.
The spirit of Saint Francis of Assisi is present in this Chamber.
In particular, I am pleased that the European Parliament accepted the general approach of the proposal, which is to ensure the animal welfare legislation applicable to slaughterhouses is in line with the hygiene package which was adopted back in 2004.
The Commission suggests that subsidiarity should be maintained in this area.
The Commission also believes that certificates of competence required for the personnel in slaughterhouses should be issued following an independent examination.
I urge you to vote in favour of Amendment 124.
I believe that we in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have done an excellent job.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have already heard, the proposal we are debating today replaces a directive which has become obsolete due to technological advances, and brings in a new regulation that is going to allow for Community requirements on animal welfare to be applied uniformly across the European Union.
Mr President, the Wojciechowski report on the proposal for a Council regulation on the protection of animals at the time of killing raises the very important subject of animal welfare.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 6 May 2009.
