With regard to Wednesday’s agenda, in relation to the report by Mr Moscovici on Romania’s progress towards accession (A6-0061/2004), the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has presented a request that we postpone this report until a future sitting. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, on behalf of my group, I should like to point out that we are strongly in favour of Romania’s accession to the European Union.
That would be bad both for the credibility of the European Union – particularly because other enlargements are also being prepared, as we all know – and for all those people in Romania who are fighting for the rule of law and against corruption, and it would work against the resolution of other serious problems, which have also recently been highlighted by the Commission.
That is why we are in favour of the debate and, ultimately, the vote on Romania happening this week.
I therefore ask that the report currently on the agenda be deferred and replaced on the agenda by Mr&#160;Coelho’s report on tackling vehicle crime with cross-border implications. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have no objection to moving the Dutch initiative on vehicle theft onto the agenda, as I feel that it would be a nice gesture to the Dutch Presidency for Parliament to state its position on what is, after all, a peaceful initiative, and one that does not cause controversy in this House.
In the last part-session in Brussels, Parliament stated its position on this issue relating to passports.
The point is that Parliament gives its opinion to the Council and either Parliament submits this opinion in time to ensure that that opinion can influence the Council’s decision or we lose due to ‘non-appearance’, because the Council goes ahead and makes its decision in the absence of a Parliament position.
That was what I requested, and, as I understand it, Mr Coelho has no objection in principle to this report being discussed. &#160;&#160; According to the Rules of Procedure, in order to replace one report with another, we must first vote to remove the first one and then vote to include the second. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am putting this request forward on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and I do not think the other groups will object.
My request concerns the extremely serious situation in Cambodia, where a number of children who had been set free and entrusted by the authorities to an NGO have again been kidnapped by prostitution racketeers, while the staff of the NGO in question have received death threats.
The situation is truly very serious.
We have already dealt with the pressing business and I think all of the groups are in agreement with keeping Zimbabwe, Congo and Bhopal on the agenda.
We therefore believe that dealing with this subject during the debate on the European Council would be an act of great sensitivity and I do not think any of the groups will object. &#160;&#160; What you have said does not relate to a change to the agenda.
I shall communicate the European Parliament’s concern, but we are not changing the agenda. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I too am in full agreement on this point.
If there are no objections, therefore, my letter will be restricted to expressing concern about the issue raised by Mrs Napoletano, and I would invite you to debate the political situation in Cambodia in accordance with the appropriate parliamentary procedures, if you so wish.
I trust that you understand this, Mr Pannella. &#160;&#160; The next item is the one-minute speeches. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the difficulties experienced by European producers of soft fruit and those involved in the processing and preservation of such fruit prompted me to put the following question to the European Commission on 28&#160;October&#160;2004: what steps does the Commission propose to take to protect soft fruit growers, particularly in the new Member States, as well as to ensure a profitable market for both producers and processors?
The Government has just presented a law aimed at subjecting the judiciary to its decisions and, to this end, has had no hesitation in manipulating the law and parliamentary procedures.
We need a general re-examination of the procedure by which Parliament monitors violations of human rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, many of us have protested against the opening of a new gold mine in Rosia Montana, Romania.
Sharing the same planet means a common responsibility for us Europeans and for Canadians. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to bring to Parliament's attention – not for the first time, perhaps – the discrimination against many university students from the 10 new accession states who are studying in the 15 old Member States.
This is very unfair, Mr President, and I ask you to intervene so that there is no unfair discrimination between university students from the 25 current Member States of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, a few days ago, the chairman of our PASOK party, Mr George Papandreou, met Patriarch Bartholomew in Istanbul and had the opportunity to reconfirm our support for the ecumenical character of the Orthodox Patriarchate, for the important spiritual and cultural work which it performs and for the international initiatives by the Patriarch for dialogue with religions and cultures and for environmental protection.
That is why I had to propose, given the special political and institutional influence which you wield, that you take an initiative with all the political groups to adopt a joint statement, both confirming the ecumenical character of the Patriarchate in Istanbul and the need for the Halki seminary to re-open immediately, and noting that defending and promoting the work of the Patriarchate does not jeopardise Turkey's national security. &#160;&#160; Mr President, while working in my electoral district at the weekend, I was told that, following a court ruling in Iran, another woman is expected to be stoned to death in three weeks’ time.
I do not believe that this House, let alone the European Union, can tolerate actions of this kind on the part of states.
I therefore ask you, as a matter of urgency, to determine whether a young woman is indeed expecting to be stoned to death in Iran in three weeks’ time, and to intervene in so far as you are able should this prove to be the case. &#160;&#160; If you communicate very specific information to us, the Presidency will be very happy to set in motion the relevant mechanisms provided for in our Rules of Procedure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, you will recall that during our last part-session in Strasbourg I raised the plight of the three hostages who were being held in Afghanistan.
In a world of such bad news, it is good to hear such good news from time to time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this Parliament has often discussed the issue of trade union rights in Colombia, but on behalf of myself and my colleague, Mr De Rossa, I ask you to intervene urgently in the defence of workers from the trade union Sintracarbon.
Mr President, on behalf of the European Parliament could you please send a letter calling for the protection of these workers to the company, to its European owners Anglo American, BHP Billiton and Glencore International, as well as to the Colombian authorities.
This Parliament must register its condemnation of the violent intimidation in Colombia or anywhere in the world against trade unionists simply trying to represent their members according to their rights under international law. &#160;&#160; Mr President, at our last part-session in Strasbourg, Mr Farage was warned of the legal consequences when he spoke about Mr Barrot.
Many of us objected to this, but we did not object to Mr Watson's right to speak his mind.
We are on French soil but the relevance of French law is questionable, as we are endlessly reminded that EU law takes precedence over national law.
So my question is this: had Mr Farage the right to speak his mind as he did and, if not, how and on what authority is Members' freedom of speech in this House curtailed? &#160;&#160; What you have said offers me the opportunity to make a few comments in this regard.
I am referring to the attack in Madrid on 11 March 2004.
Since the bulldozers moved in it has become impossible to move around the field without treading on fragments of human bones and remains, shreds of military uniform and military equipment.
I call on you, Mr President, to write to the authorities in Auchy-les-Mines to express our strongest condemnation of the desecration of the graves of these soldiers – men who gave their lives selflessly to preserve our freedom and democracy in this continent.
It is disgraceful that their resting place has been treated in this way. &#160;&#160; I take note of what you say.
Mr President, given that the islands are now in a state of limbo – the parliament has stopped the executive from acting and the executive believes it has a duty to act under EU law – I would ask that you request the transport and competition Commissioners to examine this matter urgently and determine whether these island routes really have to be put out to tender under EU competition law. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to protest at the way in which Members of the European Parliament are treated like mechanical voting robots.
The Polish people experienced at first hand the disastrous attempts to create a Soviet being, and changes to human nature undertaken as part of the creation of a European economic being are also nothing but pathological discrimination.
We are therefore opposed to efforts to turn this Parliament into a mere sham, where democracy is only nominally present. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I had hoped in this speech to welcome a political breakthrough in Northern Ireland and to hail an irreversible abandonment by the IRA of its dirty war and its means of war.
Like other major European institutions, it ought to be based on certain values and basic principles, such as equality between and amongst its Member States.
But if we look, for instance, at the distribution of civil servants' posts between the old and new Member States in the Commission, this is unfortunately not the case.
So far, less than a handful of the Commission's 265 most senior jobs are occupied by officials from the new Member States.
This situation cannot continue.
The European Union is not George Orwell's , where all members are equal but some are more equal.
Therefore, I ask the Commission to come to Parliament with a regular progress report on this issue and I also urge the President of our Parliament to monitor the situation closely. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, 13&#160;December is a sad day, as it is the anniversary of the imposition of martial law in Poland, a measure that was intended to halt the widespread move towards democracy.
I wanted to take this opportunity to say that this House has already heard on several occasions that Mr&#160;Kovács is becoming the hero of Europe’s transformation.
I should therefore like to repeat that it was not Mr&#160;Kovács who was the hero, but the Polish workers in Lublin, in Świdnik, and then in Gdansk in 1981.
I would be extremely grateful if the authentic historical facts were respected. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the presidential election in Ukraine has been, as regards democratic politics, rich in scandals, and now another one has come to light.
I would really like to say, though, that I would also be glad if you ... &#160;&#160; That is not a point of order. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report by Mr Eurlings on Turkey’s progress towards accession (A6-0063/2004).
Over the past few months, since the beginning of October in fact, I have spent more than two weeks in that country.
In my report, I refer to Parliament’s support in this, but the public’s continued support for those changes are also decidedly impressive and worthy of congratulation.
Moreover, the present reforms must be implemented more effectively in order for Turkey to fully meet the political criteria.
Along with the Commission, the Council of Europe and all human rights organisations barring one, I too am of the opinion that there is no systematic torture in Turkey, but discussion as to whether it is systematic or not misses the real issue that is before us, which is that approximately one hundred cases of torture, reported by Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and other organisations, committed in police cells are far too many – one hundred too many for a country that really wants to grow towards Europe.
Then there is religious freedom, an area in which there are still many problems, and in which not a great deal of progress has been made.
According to the report, the negotiations can be opened without any unnecessary delays subject to three conditions.
Secondly, monitoring by the Commission must be fully underway.
I have made every effort to arrive at a level of cooperation in Parliament in which this balance is struck in a constructive, yet critical, manner.
Whatever happens, we must anchor down the fact that cooperation between Turkey and the European Union will be very solid in future.
Turkey is being given this real opportunity, but we in this House must also send a clear message about our own relevance as Parliament, by checking in the years that lie ahead whether Turkey makes real progress and whether it does so to a sufficient extent.
The European Parliament must encourage Turkey in this.
I have followed Parliament’s work on Turkey very closely and wish to commend Members of this House for their commitment to pursue a rational and analytical debate.
In particular I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Eurlings, for the balanced report he has drawn up, as well as the Committee on Foreign Affairs for its valuable work.
The revised version of the report, which incorporates several compromise amendments, demonstrates the will of this House to obtain a broad consensus on the important issue we are discussing today.
We trust that the European Council will endorse our recommendation and decide to open the accession negotiations with Turkey, as long as this conditionality is met.
The Commission has proposed a negotiation strategy based on three pillars.
The first pillar supports the reform process in Turkey.
Many of the issues mentioned in Mr Eurlings’ report will require further attention.
I refer in particular to the further consolidation of cultural rights, improving the situation of religious communities, strengthening the fight against torture and ensuring full civilian control of the military.
With the appointment of a civilian Secretary-General, the National Security Council is being transformed into an advisory body and its activities are becoming more transparent.
I can assure the Members of this House that the Commission remains committed to monitoring Turkey’s compliance with the Copenhagen political criteria.
The second pillar relates to the framework for accession negotiations with Turkey, taking into account the specific characteristics of the country.
The prospect of Turkish EU accession raises many legitimate questions, concerns and worries.
Therefore, the third pillar of our approach to Turkey will be geared towards strengthening the political and cultural dialogue between EU and Turkish citizens.
It is clear that the European Parliament can and should play an important role in pursuing this project.
I would like to turn briefly to Cyprus, on which I largely share the language in your report.
In June the European Council welcomed the positive contribution of the Turkish Government to the efforts of the UN Secretary-General to achieve a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem.
The Turkish membership perspective dates back to the Association Agreement in 1963.
I am convinced that the negotiation process will help to guide further reforms in Turkey.
By its very nature, this is an open-ended process whose outcome cannot be guaranteed beforehand.
The EU will evolve over this period, and Turkey should change decisively and fundamentally.
In any event, these accession negotiations need to be managed carefully and prepared thoroughly in order to facilitate such a process and an outcome that enhances the achievements of fifty years of European integration.
This debate is timely in view of the decision the European Council will take on Friday with regard to the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey.
The fall of the Berlin Wall created the conditions for rapid change in the central and eastern European countries that have become new EU Member States since May this year.
For Turkey there was no such catalyst for change except the long-standing aspiration to join Europe and probably the desire for drastic economic change after the devastating economic crises in 2000 and 2001.
The Commission quite rightly concludes that this modernisation is in the interests of both Turkey and the European Union and concludes that accession, if well-managed, would offer important opportunities for both.
The report considers that accession negotiations should be opened without undue delay and underlines three important provisions.
In the report the need is underlined to inform citizens of both the EU and Turkey, through an intensive political and cultural dialogue, in order to increase awareness of the integration process and foster mutual understanding.
Today the Council discussed the draft conclusions in preparation for the decision that the European Council will have to take on Friday.
This decision entails more than a simple 'yes' or 'no' to the question of whether or not to open accession negotiations with Turkey.
In addition the Commission has, in its recommendations, addressed concerns in Europe relating to Turkey's accession – for example concerns about the budgetary impact, or about the free movement of workers.
In other words, this decision on Turkey will also have to be sufficiently forward-looking.
The Netherlands presidency has extensively consulted Member States in order to prepare for a sustainable decision on Friday that does justice to the interests of the European Union and of Turkey.
I was in Turkey last week, where I had the chance to meet Prime Minister Erdogan and the Foreign Minister, Mr Gul.
I know that you have already had and today will again have an intense debate on Turkey, including on the elements of the decision that I have mentioned.
I am convinced that a comprehensive debate on Turkey's accession to the EU is a prerequisite for a good outcome.
The Netherlands presidency is working towards a fair and balanced decision that will be based on the fulfilment of the Copenhagen political criteria.
In this context we welcome the thorough and constructive work undertaken by your rapporteur and the Committee on Foreign Affairs in this regard.
We look forward to a resolution being adopted by Parliament on 15 December. &#160;&#160; .
Never before in the history of the European Economic Community, of the European Community and of the European Union has there been a decision with such potential for far-reaching consequences as that on Turkey’s membership of the European Union.
Let me point out that other parties, too, include former Heads of Government who speak up in favour of Turkish membership or against it.
In our group, that of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we affirm that we cannot accept any binding obligations, that nothing is automatic, that nothing can be laid down on the basis of things said to one effect or another by former Heads of Government.
I would like to thank our colleague Mr Eurlings most warmly for his report and for giving human rights such a high priority in it.
There is another faction that wants negotiations to have membership of the European Union as their objective, and a third seeking negotiations towards the goal of an alternative partnership, which would also be a privileged one.
Those in our group who either do not want negotiations or want them to tend towards a privileged partnership – among whose number I include myself – are gravely concerned that, should Turkey join the European Union, this enlargement might prove fatal and Europeans might lose their identity, that it might be detrimental to the sense of being ‘us’ on which solidarity in the European Union is founded.
We ask that the Turkish Prime Minister should not accuse us of exploiting the Turkey issue for our own internal policy purposes.
It will then be demonstrated that the values defined in that Charter, which are the fundamental values of our Union, can be accepted by a country of whose population 99% or 98% are Muslims.
It is this advance, Mr Poettering, pure and simple, that compels us to commence these negotiations.
Erdoğan has indeed set in motion more reforms than his predecessors in government.
The only thing is that they are not enough, but all those people we have been talking to in Turkey, as Mr Eurlings can confirm – all those campaigners for human rights, for women’s rights, all the democratic organisations, all the pro-democracy associations, both the employers’ organisations and the trade unions – all have been telling us that the prospect of accession to the European Union has changed their country, that the prospect of accession to this Union will make their country a normal parliamentary democracy.
That is what we need to hear from you, but you have nothing to say on the subject!
This is what we have to say, and it is our third argument: if we succeed in making Turkey democratic and stable, if Western values succeed in putting down roots in its society, if we give the Turks the chance to become what they want to be, in other words, people in Europe, accepting European values for themselves, then we will be creating a European Union that will be making a reality of its peace process, its potential for peace and for the stabilisation of democracy in a region that more than ever needs democracy, human rights, social security and peace.
It is these very things that we in the European Union should be exporting to Turkey – if all goes well!
Many of us would certainly have preferred a clearer and, in some way, less tortuous report.
Of course, we cannot say that we want permanent safeguards regarding the free movement of people, because that would be a breach of the Treaty, irrespective of the people concerned.
It is about finding out whether this Europe is a trustworthy partner in international relations.
I believe that the identity of the European project consists in its being a political project and not a geographical project or a religious one.
I also believe that our identity does not reside so much in our past and our roots – which some would claim to be completely Christian or Catholic – as in our present and, especially, our future.
Our past has seen not only glories but also wars and bloodshed.
As the rapporteur has already stated, it is a critical, but constructive report.
Mr Poettering has put this into words and there is no time to go into all those arguments.
What I should like to alert you to is the attempt, by means of amendments, to include this position in Mr Eurlings’ report after all, by anticipating, sometimes in a toned down version, the possible failure of the negotiations and to refer back to other forms of relations between Turkey and the European Union.
The report is very clear on this point.
The negotiations must be opened as soon as possible and without any unnecessary delays.
Nothing in life is certain; that also applies to these negotiations, but the objective, namely full membership, must be clear-cut.
A second position is adopted in the debate by those critics who feel that too little has happened and that far more should happen, particularly in the area of human rights.
However, at the end of all those talks, they all pleaded with us to open negotiations, those being the best guarantee of success for the reforms that are now taking place.
Both the Commission’s report and that produced by Mr&#160;Eurlings contain sufficient guarantees to simply suspend negotiations in the unlikely event of future deteriorations in the area of human rights.
If you value those human rights, if you really think that torture should be forced back further, if you think that the Kurds should acquire rights not only on paper but also in practice, then I urge you to vote in favour of opening negotiations.
I really do hope that, during Wednesday’s vote, Parliament will finally be capable of taking a strategic decision with implications that stretch far beyond Europe, and that the European Council will do likewise two days later.
As Mr Schulz has already pointed out, Turkey can demonstrate that democracy and Islam very much go hand in hand.
That is the best antidote against the sceptics who are monopolising the issue in Europe at the moment and who claim that this will never be possible.
Turkey can demonstrate that it is possible, and Europe can demonstrate that it can contribute to preventing a clash of civilisations between the West and the Islamic world, a clash for which many fundamentalists in the East and West are hoping.
I have to say, though, and with regret, that I am both disappointed and surprised that – of all people – the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the Greens, on all the practical issues in which the negotiation process could have measured further progress in terms of time and impact, have rejected amendments to that effect.
In a report that twice, and rightly, addresses the problem of the Greek Orthodox seminary at Halki, it must also be possible to address the issue of the four million Kurds who are refugees in a country in which over four thousand villages have been destroyed.
My group will have no part in this sort of relativism.
The governor announced that two armed terrorists had been killed.
The Turkish Prime Minister and the President of the Turkish Parliament very much create the impression that their country already complies with the political criteria for accession.
To sum up, Brussels is apparently asking too much of Ankara on this crucial subject.
Words fail me, in fact, for the frankly small-minded attitude of the Turkish authorities towards various minuscule Christian minorities on their territory.
Although in this light, I very much value the critical stance adopted by Mr Eurlings in this basic violation of human rights, I believe that he is still concerning himself too much with fighting the symptoms.
That is why I would once again urge him to back my amendment in which the Council and the Commission are asked to demand from the Turkish authorities, in line with the political criteria of Copenhagen, legal personality for the Christian churches with immediate effect and the immediate abolition of the Presidium for Religious Affairs.
The European Economic Area is an excellent example of a platform for good economic cooperation between the EU and non-EU Member States.
Reform of both these policies is self-evident and necessary, in particular in the case of agricultural policy, but it would be an extremely negative development if such a reform were to be carried out merely because there was a chance of Turkey joining the European Union.
Privileged membership of this kind would also provide us with an opportunity to forestall further social problems relating to migration.
The latter are becoming ever more prevalent in today’s Europe, and ever more difficult to resolve.
The stepping up of relations with Turkey should also be kept more in proportion to Europe’s policy of openness towards Ukraine.
These are all good reasons why we cannot vote in favour of this report.
If we speak so lightly of Turkey’s membership in the European Union, we will build up stores of resentment in Turkey, a country that should be our friend. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the New Italian Socialist Party, which declares its support for the Eurlings report and hence for the opening of negotiations with Turkey.
Furthermore, since it offers an alternative model to the closed, sectarian society proposed by Islamic fundamentalists, Europe could play an invaluable role in future relations between the West and the Islamic world.
The opening of negotiations will, however, also be a point of departure, since the duration and outcome of the negotiations, which can start as soon as Turkey meets the Copenhagen political criteria, will depend on the progress made, particularly with regard to the economy and the Community .
The European Union and Turkey thus appear to be united by a major challenge: to lay the foundations for tomorrow’s Europe together. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr&#160;Eurlings on his excellent work on an issue which, as this debate has demonstrated, is controversial and difficult.
On the other hand, some Members have expressed their fundamental opposition.
At the same time – and this should be pointed out because it is of significance in this debate – Turkey is a loyal partner of the West within the Atlantic Alliance and, in my opinion, the question we have to ask at this point, given Turkey’s strategic position, which is absolutely essential in terms of the transit of oil from the Caspian Sea and the decisive role it plays in terms of the stability of the Middle East and Central Asia, is whether we want Turkey to be linked to the European Union’s Western system of values or whether we want Turkey to move towards Islamic fundamentalism or become part of Russia’s sphere.
But time and the citizens of the European Union will provide the answer to that question in good time. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office, Commissioner, I should like to start by saluting Mr&#160;Eurlings and thanking him for the high quality of his report and the spirit of openness that he showed throughout the process of compiling it.
The report has been substantially modified by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but as it now stands here in the plenary, it recommends opening accession negotiations with Turkey without undue delay, and recalls that the objective of these negotiations can only be accession and nothing else.
These two points are in line with what the majority of my group wants.
That is why a large number of us in the Socialist Group will be voting in favour of it, unless one of these points is called into question by an amendment adopted in the sitting.
In any case, it would send a very strong message to Turkey if this report were to be adopted by a substantial majority.
I should like, Mr&#160;President and Mr&#160;Eurlings, speaking in a personal capacity, to express two regrets about the nature of the debates that we have just held.
The evidence of this is plain to see: in Cyprus, in its relations with the Armenian and Kurdish peoples and also in the prominent role played by the army and the police in the internal socio-political organisation of the country, where they remain all-powerful.
In fact, these insistent, sometimes aggressive and often repeated reminders of some of the blackest events in recent Turkish history are inspired more by suspicion and hostility than a desire to start a process of democratic consolidation and reconciliation between all peoples on the basis of an established historical reality.
In the same way, Spain, Portugal and Greece also joined us after black periods of fascism.
The enlargement of our market to encompass a market of 70 million consumers, in a country where the economy has been growing very rapidly for the last six years, will strengthen the Union considerably, and let us not forget that growth in Turkey will help to alleviate substantially the concerns that some of our nations have about migratory movements.
But above all, by opening up to a country that is secular but where the majority religion is Islam, the Union would make a major contribution to peace and mutual understanding between peoples in these times of increasing tension, aggravated mistrust and conflict between Muslim and Christian countries.
And that is what the peoples of Europe want.
Obviously the essential question, as Emma Bonino rightly said just now, is what we want for Europe and what Europe means to us.
The proposed accession of the Maghreb, the proposed accession of Lebanon, the proposed accession of Palestine or Israel: once again we are building a new, revised and updated UN and not the political project of the founding fathers of Europe.
It is not possible to start these negotiations while the Cyprus issue has not been clarified.
Finally, it is not possible to start negotiations with Mr&#160;Erdogan, who wrote recently in major European newspapers that Turkish troops would never leave Cyprus. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank the rapporteur.
By being so, we are committing ourselves to joining with civil society in Turkey in ensuring that Turkey becomes a country free of every kind of torture.
We are making a commitment that every woman in Turkey will be free to go to school, free to choose her partner and to live in a partnership free of any sort of violence.
One of the Member States is also the Republic of Cyprus, which Turkey has to respect and recognise in the same way as the other 24 members.
There is no sense in Turkey's seeking to become a member of the European Union and not recognising a member of the Union, just as there is no sense in Turkey's occupying 37% of the territory of the Republic of Cyprus, in other words territory of a Member State of the European Union and, at the same time, acceding to that Union.
We hope that Turkey will help open a new chapter in the history of our region. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the Polish people have special reasons for wishing Turkey great success in the political and economic reforms it has embarked upon.
Turkey should become a privileged partner of the European Union, but not a Member State.
There are a number of facts that speak against opening accession negotiations with Turkey, such as the fact that Turkey is not a European country in terms of geography, religion or culture.
Turkey has not settled its relations with ethnic and religious minorities living on its territory, or with the neighbouring country of Armenia.
In conclusion, given the sceptical views held by the Independence and Democracy Group on strengthening of the European superstate, the Group will vote against the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey.
In fact, the Group should really be voting in favour, as it is obvious that Turkey’s accession will accelerate the disintegration of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is it a good idea to start negotiations with Turkey?
The answer to that question is neither simple nor a foregone conclusion.
There is still a great deal to do in these areas in Turkey, especially as regards respect for women and children, the protection of minorities and the abolition of torture and capital punishment.
The reality is that the EU has gone stiff.
If we ask who, at this stage, would benefit from Turkey’s accession, or from negotiations towards that end, the answer is that it would be the ones who do not want what many of us in this House were actually originally working towards, and who seek to weaken the EU.
The Commission’s report is full of doubts.
This ‘all or nothing’ strategy, involving negotiations lasting some ten or fifteen years and even then perhaps without a positive outcome, strikes me as misguided, and that is why we have to find a second option facilitating a European economic area with a privileged partnership or whatever else one wants to call it.
I have to contradict Commissioner Verheugen and say that there is one thing that must be clear at the present time: how can it be said that Turkey absolutely must accede and that Ukraine cannot under any circumstances?
That being so, it follows that both must be accepted as Members, and there is doubt in my mind as to whether the European Union can manage that as things stand at present.
So let us seek out new ways of giving all these countries the prospect of membership in the EU, while at the same time allowing the European Union to grow politically. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to start by congratulating my fellow countryman, Mr&#160;Eurlings, who had the onerous task of acting as rapporteur on this very complex issue, and I think he has done an excellent job of it so far.
The democratic changes mainly benefit the Turkish people, but Europe also represents the values which Turkey wishes to adopt.
In the past, our group has emphasised four aspects.
We reject any other formula that has a different goal in mind.
Thirdly, given that the negotiations will take such a long time and so much needs to be done, the opening of the negotiations does not, of course, guarantee a successful outcome from the outset.
Since all these items can also be found in Mr Eurlings’ report, he can count on our support this week. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is essential for the sake of our stability as well as morality that we keep faith with Turkey.
Mr Toubon and his friends propose that Turkey be brought into a privileged partnership enjoying some aspects of membership, but without political representation and without the duty to respect European law and the principle of loyal cooperation.
The report contains a huge amount of very interesting and very precise information about the human rights situation and Mr&#160;Eurlings really cannot be accused of toning down certain points in order to strengthen the case for accession.
But to refuse accession today because the Copenhagen political criteria have not been met would be tantamount to interrupting a process of democratisation supposedly on the grounds of democratic values, which is completely illogical and paradoxical.
I think that Mr&#160;Brok is right, but I do not draw the same conclusions as he does: to set out a half-hearted accession strategy is to prepare for failure.
If we work towards these two objectives we will, I believe, make a success of the multicultural Europe that we want to see created with Turkey’s accession. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the large majority of my political group supports in principle the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey.
However, we believe that the Eurlings report requires amendments which will strengthen our demand for real compliance by the Turkish leadership with European standards; amendments which will counterbalance the unacceptable pressure of the United States administration on the Dutch Presidency for the ' – in other words more or less unconditional – accession of Turkey to the European Union.
I call on the European Commission to process immediately a roadmap with a specific and verifiable timetable for the application of the Copenhagen political criteria, with particular emphasis on the recognition of Cyprus by Turkey and the withdrawal of the Turkish occupying forces from the northern part of the island, visible progress in resolving the problems of the Kurdish people, the safeguarding of human rights and the drafting of a new constitution.
That is the case of my own country, France.
It is true that this European Union is no stranger to illogical positions of this sort.
The reality is that I do not know quite what we are in the process of building here; a hotchpotch maybe, but it clearly has nothing to do with Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, reading this report, it is obvious that the rapporteur and the majority that supports the report are quite clear about the profound differences between Turkey and the EU.
What the EU is saying is, in actual fact, that Turkey should give up its Muslim culture.
Mr&#160;Schulz said it clearly in this House today: Turkey must adopt all our laws and values.
The strongest opponents are the Greek Cypriots, who are the European people that has most recently been at war with Turkey and the northern part of whose country is still occupied by Turkey.
Witness its brutal invasion and occupation of Northern Cyprus.
Many of us also recall that Turkey has been a staunch ally in NATO for some 50 years and that during much of that time the country was subject to terrorist attacks by organisations sponsored by the Soviet Union.
The alarmists talk as if Turkey is going to join in a month's time.
Turkey has many very successful industrial sectors and a vibrant economy in many respects, but it is still a poor country.
The economic challenges are formidable but the potential rewards are great.
Turkish Cypriots, fully backed by Ankara, supported the United Nations plan which, among other features, would have phased out the non-Cypriot forces from the island, both Turkish and Greek.
Let us give the green light now to the opening of negotiations with Turkey, not grudgingly, but with enthusiasm. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that Parliament will send a clear message to the European Council of 17 December, a message to open negotiations with Turkey with a view to its accession.
I would say to Mr Camre that my country has had the crime of honour and the annulment of the crime of rape through marriage as part of its legal system, but I would never dream of saying that it was due to our Catholic culture.
I therefore ask him to rethink that point. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this is an extremely important report that comes at a time when the leaders of the Member States have still not put the finishing touches to the conclusions from the weekend summit.
Turkey could become a bridge between Europe and the Muslim world and provide us with significant opportunities to solve common problems and fight fanaticism and terrorism.
It is a union of values, and Turkey is now working hard and single-mindedly to adopt these values.
The process will be a long one, taking perhaps 15 years.
In fifteen years’ time, both the EU and Turkey, as well as the world in general, will look different.
They concern Cyprus, human rights and, especially, the situation of the Kurds.
For they did it, in 1999, behind closed doors, without consulting parliaments, without advice from the Commission.
It is both first world and third world in one single state.
This means that Turkey must become European and not that Europe must become Turkish, which would result in the degeneration of the European project into a free trade area.
When Mr Schröder recently called Mr Erdogan his friend, he meant that ... &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if the ghosts of Adenauer, de Gaulle and Spaak were in the House, they would shiver merely at the idea of what we are debating here.
If you too wish Europe to fall, bring 80 million Turks with a different culture and different religion into Europe.
When de Gaulle built Europe with the other Europeans, he said that Europe was determined by her geography, her Greco-Roman culture and the Christian religion.
That will be a crime for Europe.
One must recall that the European Commission carried out an evaluation report on the progress that Turkey has made in its efforts to join the European Union.
I support the terms of the today's report which states that the European Council should vote for accession negotiations with Turkey to begin without delay and the objective of these negotiations is Turkey's EU membership.
Turkey is one of the European Union’s allies and partners, and has for some time enjoyed something akin to a privileged partnership, but this cannot in the least change the fact that it should never become a full Member State of the European Union and will never really be a European country.
If this House really wants to be the assembly representing Europe’s citizens, it will now have to send out a clear message, as a vast majority of the public – as we all know – is opposed to Turkey joining the EU.
We learn, indeed, from all experience of the EU to date that the commencement of negotiations means that they will be brought to a favourable conclusion sooner or later – generally sooner rather than later.
Nor is Mr Erdogan, the Turkish Prime Minister, leaving any doubt about the fact that the negotiations have, for him, but one objective, that being full membership without reservations.
Moreover, Europe’s cultural identity, which has evolved through history would without doubt be fundamentally undermined by the presence of a Muslim Member State, and the mass immigration of millions of unemployed young Turks – which is a certainty – would result in a series of social and economic catastrophes … &#160;&#160; Mr President, for the French members of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the question is not about Turkey.
The question is: ‘What kind of Europe do we want?’ We have always wanted a political Europe in tune with world affairs, a Europe of integration and not of differentiation, a Europe of common policy and not of variable geometry.
It is this concept of common interest between Europe and Turkey that led us to submit essential amendments to this House, in collaboration with our German friends.
We have managed to influence a democratic transformation in Turkey, with the will of the Turkish people, but without tanks, without rifles and without arms.
We are aware that human rights must continue to improve.
We are aware that there are women’s issues.
We are aware –&#160;and on this issue I appeal to my Turkish friends&#160;– of the problem of the Armenian genocide.
From Council to Council, from summit to summit, crucial decisions for our future have been taken without our Heads of State or Government ever spending a day, or even a few hours, debating the core issues relating to those decisions.
We cannot continue to make decisions on the future of our Union on the quiet, almost mechanically, without involving the peoples of Europe in the debates.
We are told today that we have gone too far to turn back, yet at the same time we are told that there will always be time to address this question in ten or fifteen years.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as has been mentioned, the majority of human rights activists in Turkey – Leyla Zana among them – are of the opinion that a positive decision on the Turkish application to join the EU will contribute to an improvement in Turkish policy on ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities.
My country, Latvia, became a Member State of the EU, in spite of the fact that the Latvian authorities did not recognise the rights of linguistic minorities.
It was a mistake for EU institutions not to use Latvia's accession process to promote the fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria.
We call on the Commission to use every opportunity to urge the Turkish Government to recognise the Kurdish minority in the country and to create the conditions necessary for this minority to be respected and protected. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Communist Party of Greece opposes the European Union and its enlargement and, in this sense, we do not agree with the accession of Turkey, not for ethnic, chauvinist or cultural reasons, but on the same political grounds on which we also disagreed with Greece's accession to and its remaining in the European Union.
Secondly, Turkish governments have raised new issues of border differences with Greece which have been clearly resolved under international treaties, and the only problem which remains to be resolved is the demarcation of the continental shelf in the Aegean.
The European Union legalised these claims during the course of discussions, with the decision taken at Helsinki.
There have been limited rather than material changes ... &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the June List does not view Turkey’s geographical position or its Muslim religion as obstacles to membership of the EU.
We welcome the fact that Turkey is drawing closer to the EU and working to fulfil the Copenhagen criteria.
Turkey must draw a line under its past and acknowledge the Armenian genocide.
It must give its minorities full human rights.
It must achieve a level of economic development such that full membership does not release tensions that may threaten the internal market.
Decisions that have already been made mean that it is all but impossible to bring about a comprehensive reform of agricultural policy until after 2013.
Full Turkish membership is a very long-term issue, requiring major and sweeping political and economic changes in both Turkey and the European Union. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, the question has been phrased incorrectly.
There has been talk in this House of the progress made by Turkey.
As a psychologist, I believe the fate of every single person is important, but I know that not everything that is important for people can be measured.
I have been observing Muslims in Brussels for 20&#160;years, and I would not want such a large country to have any influence on the fate of my country, Poland, within the framework of the European Union.
We should not act in a hypocritical manner, and we should not be afraid to say ‘no’ to Turkey... &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Toubon has asked what sort of Europe we want.
The 1963 Ankara Agreement had a customs union as its objective; one was promised, and it has been in place for nine years.
Even before accession negotiations have been set in motion, Turkey is now demanding of us full membership without any ifs or buts.
That may be how you do politics in Turkey, but it is not how it is done in the EU.
The Copenhagen criteria apply to all candidates for accession.
The major problems Turkey has with democracy, freedom of opinion, human rights, the rights of minorities, with its neighbours in Armenia and Cyprus, and with the Kurds, have caused it to be decided that Turkey must fulfil the political criteria before negotiations can start.
There is no doubt that, even today, these conditions have not yet been met.
This unanimous EU policy has made a decisive contribution over the last five years to important reforms in Turkey.
It would be a mistake for us to disparage the progress achieved, just as it would be a mistake for us to create an idyllic picture because, although it is commonly accepted that there has been an improvement in the human rights and minority rights situation, that an important amount of legislation has been passed, that the situation is not the same as in the past, as Leila Zanna also confirmed to us in the European Parliament, there is still a serious deficit in the implementation of European principles and the .
However, as in 1999, the present motion which the European Parliament is being called on to adopt and the decision which the European Council will take must also contain a clear message: a message concerning the opening of accession negotiations in accordance with the decisions taken by the European Council in 2005, with the final objective of accession to the ΕU if Turkey completes the negotiations successfully.
On the contrary, it must include a clear European agenda and a roadmap with a specific timetable for the implementation of Turkey's obligations.
We must not, under any circumstances, give the impression that Turkey can negotiate '' and have its own agenda.
Within this framework, what is of decisive importance is Turkey's obligation to respect minority rights, the rights of the Greek minorities in Istanbul, Imvros and Tenedos, to respect the ecumenical character of the Patriarchate, to re-open the Halki seminary immediately, to respect international law, to help resolve operational problems on the basis of a specific timetable, with referral to the International Court of Justice in the Hague and, finally, to proceed with the international recognition of the Republic of Cyprus and the gradual withdrawal of the occupying army.
In particular, as far as the question of the diplomatic recognition of Cyprus is concerned, I should like to hear the opinion of the Dutch Presidency and of Mr Nicolaï as to what the position of the Dutch Presidency is in the run-up to the European Council.
Our decisions need to make clear that it is the European Union which lays down the framework, not the candidate, not Turkey.
No other mechanism of the European Union will bring more stability, more vision and more development to the East than the announcement of the date for Turkey.
This is why I support Europe and why I give my support to Turkey.
Turkey’s cultural roots are more diverse than most of us realise.
The counter-arguments are illogical.
If Islam were a barrier, we would be declaring that the 15 million Muslims, three times the population of Finland, who now live in EU countries are second class citizens.
It is important, however, that Turkey’s membership only comes about if the country meets the criteria that relate to democracy, human rights, the rule of law, and a respect for the rights of minorities. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the Council will set an exact date for the start of negotiations, in the knowledge that that date will mark the beginning of a long journey, the outcome of which will largely depend on the additional transformations that take place in Turkey during that time.
Furthermore, our society is already paying a high toll for the fact that on our Continent, millions of people of non-European origin sometimes find it very difficult to coexist with the indigenous population.
We therefore demand a referendum in which the European citizens can speak out in favour, or rather against, this potential Turkish accession. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Eurlings, on his excellent work and on the spirit of cooperation which he has demonstrated throughout the procedure.
At the same time, however, we would remind you that these prospects are connected with compliance with the political and financial criteria analysed in the texts of the conclusions of the European Councils from Copenhagen to Helsinki and in Brussels in a few days' time.
This paragraph also covers relations between Greece and Turkey.
The European Union would be making a grave error if, after many years of promises to Turkey, it were now to turn round suddenly and say no at a time when Turkey is taking its mission seriously.
I am very much in favour of backing the report and also of launching the negotiations.
We must, however, tell Turkey that it will be a long and difficult path.
Turkey has made enormous strides over the past two to three years.
I am certainly in a position to judge that, and I congratulate Turkey on it, but it will take many years before Europe can rest assured that a new Turkey, a different Turkey, is joining the European Union. &#160;&#160; I support opening accession negotiations with Turkey and if Turkey fulfils the accession criteria, I support Turkey’s accession.
We are accustomed to a Europe consisting of a community of values based on a common cultural heritage, a common past and common traditions.
The Europe that includes Turkey will be a different Europe.
Turkey has an important value for all of us: its accession is of great interest and therefore I support opening the accession negotiations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the debate about Turkey has always been awash with duplicity.
That duplicity was already being practised in Helsinki back in 1999, when Turkey was given applicant status, and so many had no wish whatsoever to see it in the Union; the same situation has obtained ever since.
It takes at least two to three generations, so why can we not give this country the time it needs?
One thing must be quite clear: if Turkish membership were to erode the European Union, that would be too high a price to pay – and not only for the Union, by the way, but for Turkey too.
The question that is before us is whether Turkey meets the political criteria of Copenhagen, and the answer is no.
It therefore matters a great deal to me that this House should stick to the agreements made, and finally put an end to the arbitrariness, or double standards, that characterise the enlargement process. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteur, Mr Eurlings, for the very difficult job which he has completed so efficiently.
We shall know the results of the procedures for Turkey to accede to the European Union when the European Council takes its decision on 17 December 2004.
If the decision inclines towards no, it may provoke a crisis in relations between Turkey and the European Union, something which needs to be avoided.
Our special relationship should be the golden option which helps both Turkey and the European Union.
That is why the solution to the Cyprus problem must be purely European and must be based on full respect for and the application of the and the principles in general on which the European Union is founded.
With such a development, you can be sure that the Greek Cypriot Christians, who account for 82% of the population of Cyprus, and the Turkish Cypriot Muslims, who account for 18%, will be a perhaps unique example of peaceful coexistence, cooperation and progress and Cyprus will become a real bridge of peace and cooperation between the European Union and the Arab nations and Israel, with which Cyprus has always maintained excellent relations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must begin, as other Members of this House before me have done, by thanking Mr Eurlings for the balanced report that he has presented to us today.
Like most of you, I have been witnessing for some time now a semantic debate between accession and privileged partnership.
A privileged partnership will not encourage Turkey to accept such demands.
When the world speaks of the ‘clash of civilisations’, when the Bush Administration pits the forces of evil against the forces of good, when Muslim fundamentalists use any excuse to give sermons carrying a message of violence and exclusion, it would be dangerous for Europe to be swept along that route and to endorse such thinking.
As a committed and progressive citizen, I do not see a world frozen in time, in which the situation as it is today would, as a matter of course, be the same in ten or fifteen years’ time.
As regards the positive developments in Turkey in recent years, which have been driven by the will of the people, it would be a serious mistake to reject the opening of these negotiations.
In my opinion we must consult our citizens first and have a referendum: let them know the real facts and then take a decision. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, firstly, I wish to express my support for Mr&#160;Eurlings’ report and acknowledge the large amount of work that has gone into it.
Many people, including some in this House today, argue in favour of Turkey’s having a specially privileged partnership as an alternative to actual membership.
If such a proposal were supported, it would therefore side-track Turkey, and the EU countries would thus be abandoning all the promises we have previously given Turkey.
We must open negotiations with Turkey, as we have promised to do, and give Turkey a fair chance.
Whether or not Turkey ultimately becomes a Member depends upon whether the Turks themselves are prepared to implement the far-reaching changes to their society that are required if Turkey is really to become a Member.
Let us be open and unprejudiced in our encounter with the population of Turkey, and let us join together in combating intolerance where this may be found.
As Chairman of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I should also like to start by expressing my support for Mr&#160;Eurlings’ report, which I think is a balanced document, as well as a responsible one in a way that is absolutely crucial.
That is very serious, because the present situation is not in accordance with freedom of expression and organisation, and I hope that Mr&#160;Rehn will take the matter seriously and inform Turkey that it must come into line.
If a modern, democratic and free Turkey joins, the European Union will have accomplished its mission. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Eurlings is to be congratulated on his report, which is a product of careful, hard and objective work.
For many, for Turkey to open negotiations for membership means opportunities – opportunities for further democratisation of the country; opportunities for abolishing torture and other violations of human rights; for respecting the rights of religious and ethnic minorities within Turkey and for full respect of the identity rights of sectors of Turkish society, the Kurds and the Alawites.
As a Cypriot Member of this Parliament, and in spite of the invasion and continuous occupation of the northern part of my country by Turkey, I am prepared to go along with this opportunity and not oppose the opening of negotiations with Turkey.
The EU must demand that Turkey acknowledge the Armenian genocide if historians are to be able to close this chapter of shame in the history of mankind.
It has an obligation to ensure the gradual withdrawal of its troops and bring an immediate end to the creation of new in relation to private properties.
Since 1963, the Community and Brussels have acknowledged that Turkey is part of Europe, and in December&#160;2002 the European Union pledged itself to begin negotiations with Turkey once the latter had fulfilled the stipulated criteria.
The country is registering high economic growth rates.
We no doubt agree that one of the conditions of a democracy is that everyone must be able to participate in the decision-making.
If the Member States’ seats in the European Parliament are reduced in number without guarantees being given that Europe’s genuine diversity will be reflected in Parliament’s composition, the minorities will be excluded from Parliament as a result of Turkey’s becoming a member.
Europe is a cultural and linguistic mosaic that has also given rise to tensions and bloodshed.
I want a Europe for all EU citizens and not just for a portion of them, no matter how great the historic decisions we face. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this debate is about nothing more or less than the destiny and the future of the European Union, which is why it is disturbing to see the extent to which confusion reigns in these deliberations.
Secondly, it is a matter of the identity of Europe, and this is another respect in which two different yardsticks are being applied.
There are countries which are partly European, such as Turkey and Russia, and their partial integration – by which we mean conferring special status or establishing a privileged partnership – with the integrated European Union is a sound strategy that will ultimately benefit both parties.
Even that controversial decision adopted in Helsinki stipulates that the Copenhagen criteria must be satisfied before negotiations can begin.
Turkey must continue to receive support in its quest to establish democracy and the rule of law and to integrate itself into the Western world.
That is true, but full membership would be more than either Turkey or the European Union could handle, and rejection is therefore in the interests of both parties.
I am therefore somewhat disenchanted that some Members of this Parliament have tabled amendments suggesting something other than full membership.
It is the only secular country and the only notable democracy in the Islamic world probably the only one where we can speak of women’s rights in a European sense.
At the same time, Turkey is aware of Europe’s promise of an invitation to begin negotiations, since 2009 will mark the 50th anniversary of the Turkish Prime Minister Adnan Menderes’s respective request.
In fact, there is no alternative, since candidate countries must commence negotiations with all EU Member States separately, and that includes Cyprus.
Also, it is just as natural that Turkey should withdraw its armed forces from all positions within EU territory.
Second, I believe that Turkey must acknowledge the 1915 Armenian mass murder as genocide, which was not planned by religiously fanatical Osmans, but by secular young Turks, many of whom later became Ataturk’s supporters.
The European Union's ability to absorb new members and overcome the economic challenges of European Union expansion are not infinite.
No other accession country has been treated in this way and Parliament should reject these amendments.
This is a debate about our own future as part of a political project and about the legitimate right of Turks to benefit from the kind of growth and stability that can only be brought from Europe.
This time that neglect on the part of our political elite – treating our citizens as babies – could have catastrophic effects. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I shall begin by congratulating Mr Eurlings on his report, which offers us an accurate portrayal of the current situation in Turkey.
The report reminds us that, despite the significant reforms underway in Turkey, there remain some worrying areas, such as the fact that torture still takes place, the fact that human rights are not routinely respected and the fact that the genocide of the Armenian people has not been acknowledged.
As regards Cyprus, is it possible, or in any way acceptable, for a European Union of 25 Member States to set up negotiations with a country that only recognises in full 24 of those Member States?
Given all of these constraints, Parliament must at least leave the door open to an alternative to full accession, an alternative that takes account of the privileged relations with this great country, but an alternative, none the less.
If this does not happen, Parliament will be making the same mistake as others in the past, namely that of giving the wrong signal, albeit perhaps for the right reasons, to the great Turkish nation, or else tying Europe to commitments that it might later not be able to meet, or might not actually want to meet. &#160;&#160; The European Council is making a very important decision this week – on opening accession talks with Turkey.
Opponents of accession, and we have heard the arguments here today, say that Turkey is not a European country, that it has different cultural, historical and religious roots from those of Europe, that it is situated in the unstable Middle Eastern region, that human, civil and political rights are not adequately observed in Turkey and that Turkey is not ready either politically, economically or in terms of its socio-economic development.
The decision to be made by the European Council, which we are now discussing, however, is not about Turkey’s accession, but about the opening of accession negotiations.
There is no doubt that Turkey, in its present situation, is not yet ready to join the European Union, but nor is the European Union ready for Turkey’s accession.
As has already been stated, these accession negotiations will run for many years and, during this time, the individual measures, procedures and progress in the different areas will be monitored in detail, whether it be in the field of human and civil rights, political reforms, socio-economic development or whatever.
If it does not succeed ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, to balance the focus on problems and challenges of Turkish membership, can I just welcome the prospect of Turkey's vibrant and generous culture enriching the European Union, as it already does in North London where I live, not least through the presence of Turkish and Kurdish people as well as the excellent food.
I hope that as part of the accession process Turkey will be persuaded to seek a political solution to the desire of the Kurdish people to express their identity, perhaps through some kind of political devolution.
The PKK's 1999 ceasefire is under strain, and only political negotiations can ensure permanent peace. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Eurlings report is a rare phenomenon in this House, in that it catalogues the violations of human rights, minority rights and ethnic rights that have taken place within a particular country.
The main issues are torture, religious freedom, women’s rights, the constitution and the occupation of part of the European Union or, to be more precise, part of a Member State of the European Union, as well as the question of the Armenians and freedom of expression.
The conclusion that has been drawn – mistakenly, in my opinion – from this catalogue of violations is that negotiations should be launched, as many of my honourable colleagues have pointed out.
Turkey’s democratisation efforts must be supported, but surely their success does not depend on membership of the European Union but rather on a policy of good neighbourly relations and fruitful partnership.
Two thirds of the European population are opposed to the opening of accession negotiations and to Turkish membership of the European Union.
This raises the question why the Commission, many parliamentarians, the Council and numerous Member States are pursuing policies that go against the clearly declared interests, opinions and wishes of the people.
We in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy also have an interest in highlighting and applauding the progress Turkey has made in the economic field in terms of the criteria established by the Union and, in particular, we wish to emphasise its compliance with the Community in fields such as energy policy, industrial policy, research and development and telecommunications.
Nevertheless, although the direction taken as a whole is correct, the progress made in each of these fields has been unequal and, therefore, progress must be made in the future on at least four aspects which I am going to mention briefly.
That, ladies and gentlemen, is essentially the content of the amendment that we in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy are proposing to Mr&#160;Eurlings’s report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, next Friday the Council will make a decision that will affect the future of the European Union – on opening accession negotiations with Turkey.
Secondly, the more we enlarge the Union, the more we will dilute it, the further we will move away from political Europe and the less able we will be to pursue common policies.
Paragraph 7(a)(3) of these criteria is clear: Turkey has deficits both in the area of democracy and in the area of human rights and in the area of respect for minority rights, as well as in numerous other areas.
We Cypriots are not against the Europeanisation of Turkey.
We want a neighbour which identifies with European values and we hope – and believe – that, through this current procedure, Turkey will end up moving towards Europe and adopting European values. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to thank Mr&#160;Eurlings for a skilfully produced report.
Leyla Zana, winner of the Sakharov Prize in 1995, told us in October to include Turkey in the negotiations or else the Kurds would not survive.
This is a serious argument for talks, but it only means that Turkey will now be included within the observation category.
Turkey needs to fulfil all the requirements of European democracy, including the rights of women.
For Turkey there are therefore three potential exits: the beginning, the end and right in the middle of everything.
Turkey is not Europe, but democracy and human rights are, and that is why these concepts should be spread, at least within our neighbouring countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Turkey is a large country straddling the border between Europe and Asia in an area of particular geopolitical sensitivity.
These were laid down at the Copenhagen summit more than ten years ago, in 1993.
A candidate for membership must fulfil a set of defined political and economic criteria and must accept the established body of European law.
It must be ready for enlargement and must not put its previous progress in jeopardy.
A few weeks ago, the Commission presented another progress report on Turkey, recording some remarkable achievements, particularly as regards the applicant country’s fulfilment of political accession criteria.
In the realm of fundamental rights, the report once again made scathing criticisms, stating, for example, that things were in a bad way with regard to religious freedom in Turkey, not to mention the numerous minority issues that remain unresolved.
The Commission went on, however, to conclude from this very mixed progress report that the time had come to launch formal accession talks while conceding that derogations, possibly of a long-term nature, would have to be made from the rules of the common market in respect of crucial membership obligations.
At the weekend the Council is required to take a very important decision on this matter.
For us, the situation of national minorities is a matter of principle.
For us, it is a matter of principle.
Ethnic minorities, religious minorities and, especially, women, must be respected.
These negotiations are an opportunity for both Turkey and the EU, but they do not constitute a guarantee. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the topic that we are discussing today in this Chamber, and which we have been discussing for years in the European Parliament both in official sittings and in private talks, is a difficult and complex problem.
Today we have an opportunity to narrow the gap between Islam and the West, thanks to a country that has roots in both the history of Christianity and that of Islam.
I would remind the sceptics and those who are against Turkey that starting negotiations with that country will greatly increase our security with regard to terrorism, which is a threat that we shall still have to face for many years.
That is why we shall be voting for the report by Mr&#160;Eurlings, to whom we offer our most sincere and heartfelt congratulations on the enormous amount of work he has done under particularly difficult conditions and on his ability to find workable compromises among the highly diverse views that enliven this Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I will be voting in support of the report as I have for other related decisions of the European Union in recent times.
I would like to stress that the European Union itself must fulfil the conditions for further enlargement, particularly in the case of a sensitive country like Turkey.
In other words it should fulfil its political, economic and social goals.
In order to become more united and more effective, it must first consolidate itself and strengthen itself from within and I consider the ratification of the European Constitutional Agreement to be a vital precondition, if any further enlargement of the European Union is to be contemplated. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the opening of negotiations with Turkey will be a historic event for both Turkey and the European Union.
This is therefore a problem that we are already experiencing in the very heart of Europe.
Ukraine should also receive a clear, rapid and credible prospect of cooperation with and accession to the European Union, and it should receive this as soon as possible.
However, it should be made clear that Turkey, just like any country seeking membership, needs to realise that it has not only rights, but also obligations.
Finally, Turkey needs to realise that its European prospects depend, first and foremost, on Turkey itself and on the stand which it will maintain on a large number of issues. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, firstly I wish to thank Mr&#160;Eurlings for having successfully completed an extremely difficult task.
Most things have been said, and many wise points of view have been put forward.
The point is that the unquestioned desire of the Erdogan Government to enact reforms contrasts with the reality of social conditions in Turkey, resulting in part from political conflicts, whether in connection with the Armenian or the Kurdish problem, and these conditions are incompatible with our objectives and criteria.
The very prospect of negotiations being launched and of possible Turkish accession to the EU, in other words, could actually fuel the conflict between Turks and Kurds instead of defusing it.
A process culminating automatically in accession without any other options would be damaging to both the EU and Turkey itself.
We are dealing with a fundamental difference. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would firstly like to thank my colleague, Mr&#160;Eurlings, for his excellent report, which takes account of different points of view.
Many experts predict that the political strength to say no to Turkey will not be found anywhere in ten years’ time, even if she did not meet the conditions of membership.
In Turkey’s case, we cannot turn a blind eye to the matter of human rights.
The conditions relating to human rights and those of minorities must be fully met before membership can be approved.
The Members of this House have expressed a huge range of opinions.
What virtually everyone in this House believes, if I have listened carefully, is that the decision to be taken by the Council on Friday is a very important one and a very important resolution.
The decision to open negotiations with Turkey is, naturally, important for the European Union, but is just as important for Turkey.
I can say that some of the concerns I have heard here are also concerns that are important in the European Council and are discussed there at great length, as the General Affairs Council, in fact, did this morning .
A much-heard concern, and one that is also discussed in the Council, is the situation relating to human rights, torture, religious freedom and the position of minorities.
I therefore share some of your concerns and would emphasise that the majority of the Commission’s sound proposals will for that reason be adopted in the proposals which we will now be submitting to the Council and on which decisions will be taken on Friday.
Finally, I would like to repeat what Mr Lagendijk and Mr Jałowiecki said in this connection.
Another concern that I share has to do with the discussion about Cyprus and its recognition by Turkey.
On Friday, the presidency would like to achieve formal recognition by Turkey of the fact that Cyprus is a Member State of the European Union and that it is one of the Twenty-Five countries forming part of the EU.
Yet another concern that was raised by various Members, including Mr Hänsch and Mr Pahor, relates to the EU’s absorption capacity.
Since I share this view, the presidency will try to include the EU’s absorption capacity in the conclusions.
A sensitive, yet important, point that was mentioned by many is the open-ended nature of the negotiations.
The negotiations have no objective other than discussing accession negotiations.
That is an essential element, and should also be reflected in the Council’s words and conclusions on Friday.
I think that by taking the decision in this manner, we can explain to the citizen that an open and extensive debate has taken place in this Parliament and on many other platforms.
I will touch on a limited number of questions that Members addressed directly to the Commission.
First, there have been numerous requests for rigorous monitoring of legal reforms and human rights in general.
The rigorous monitoring mechanism and the annexed suspension clause are indeed at the core of our negotiation strategy with regard to Turkey in the coming years.
We will be preparing a monitoring report during 2005 concerning the fulfilment of criteria in the field of human rights in general.
In our report we consider this to be a serious test case with regard to the depth of legal reform in Turkey, which touches upon trade union rights, language rights and the rights of minorities in Turkey.
This also involves the question of non-Muslim religious minorities, which has been addressed in depth by Mr Eurlings in his report and referred to by several Members here this evening.
The Turkish authorities are committed to adopting a law addressing these structural problems.
The Union now has clauses in Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union and in the draft Constitutional Treaty that provide for a procedure to deal with cases where a Member State seriously and persistently breaches the basic principles of the Union.
In fact, it has always been the case even in the past that such serious situations would lead to a suspension of negotiations.
The idea of the special partnership underlines in particular the New Neighbourhood policy, which the EU seeks to extend to its eastern and southern neighbours.
This initiative does not apply to Turkey, which has been a candidate country since the Helsinki summit in 1999.
It is hard to figure out how any more could be offered to Turkey than it already has under the privileged partnership.
For instance, there are Turkish troops in many countries in the Balkans, and even in the 'European army', as one British newspaper recently dubbed the 'Althea' operation in Bosnia.
With regard to the privileged partnership, and as Mr&#160;Nicolaï also said, in my view the clear objective of the accession negotiations will and should be accession if Turkey meets all the criteria for membership by the end of the negotiations.
Our mandate is to evaluate whether Turkey fulfils the Copenhagen political criteria.
Concerning the start-date of the negotiations, we trust the wisdom of the European Council, of the Prime Ministers and Presidents to make the political judgement with regard to when in 2005 they deem it appropriate to start the accession negotiations.
Mr Swoboda, Mr Szent-Iványi and several others made the very important point that if we succeed in this long process of negotiations, it should and will make the EU strategically stronger.
We can see this from the significant number of colleagues from free eastern and central Europe who are here among us today as Members of this Parliament.
The vote will take place on Wednesday. &#160;&#160; The key question in this report is that of support for officially starting negotiations with Turkey.
Such support is based on a series of conditions and contradictions, which, in some cases, are impositions that go beyond the defence of human rights, whereas with regard to the occupation of Cyprus there is unacceptable indulgence, given that this is an EU Member State with part of its territory under Turkish military occupation.
It would also be a contribution to the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy and at the same time it would help to improve the quality of education in Europe.
The European Council reached a political agreement on the draft at its meeting on 27 and 28 May.
A European network of national Europass Centres will also be established.
The Commission and the Member States will ensure that both at Community level and at a national level appropriate actions are taken to introduce Europass and to keep citizens, education and training providers, social partners and enterprises informed about it.
The Commission will also report regularly to Parliament and the Council as to the implementation of such actions.
The first report and evaluation will be three years after the document comes into effect.
The report period thereafter will be every four years.
Europass will help people make their qualifications and competences clearly and easily understood throughout Europe.
These last documents clarify respectively competences behind a higher education diploma and a vocational training certificate.
Europass is an open framework which in future could include other instruments, for instance to target specific competences such as computer-related skills.
This illustrates how the proposal, without having been substantially changed, has been improved through the exchange of views between institutions, based on the widespread consensus on both its purpose and content.
I wish to stress the remarkable work achieved first by Mrs Zissener and now by Mrs Novak, in close contact with the Commission and the Council.
This work has allowed us to reach this final stage.
I am therefore pleased that Mrs&#160;Novak's report proposes accepting this common position, which would allow its entry into force on 1&#160;January 2005.
Europass is a direct service to citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, may I express my thanks to Mrs Novak and her predecessor, Mrs&#160;Zissener.
The Europass is a European record of achievement with which, I am glad to say, we have been able to take a small but important step forward after all the fine words about taking government to the people.
The Europass is a key element, not only in terms of the comparability and recognition of professional achievements but more especially because it includes voluntary social and civic involvement in the catalogue of acquired skills.
I wish him, and hence our young people too, every success. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, with the Europass we have created a supplementary instrument that can help us in the pursuit of many aims, including the implementation of the Lisbon strategy, which we have been discussing extensively.
This new framework, which guarantees that new documents in the field of information technology, for example, can be incorporated into the Europass portfolio in future, is very important, because education is always full of innovations, and the Europass will have to accommodate them.
I should also like to refer to the value of periods spent in other countries, and I believe that the documents should not only record dates and technical details but should also include explicit and retraceable references to intercultural learning experiences and social integration.
If Europe’s position in the knowledge-based economy is to be cemented, the appropriate conditions must be created.
Many employers and head teachers are aware of the current problems with the assessment of levels of knowledge and skill achieved within an uncoordinated framework of different qualifications, certificates and diplomas.
The introduction of the Europass will make it easier for workers, students, employers and educational institutions to operate in the European labour and education market. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the common position for adopting the Parliament and Council decision on the Europass seems eminently sensible, and one wonders why it took so long to achieve it following the completion of the single market 12 years ago.
The difficulty is not in adopting this proposal but in implementing it.
The initial evaluation period will now take place after three years – originally it was proposed after four years – and thereafter at intervening four-year timescales.
The document on the table is the fruit of a lengthy development process, and I should stress that it is not the final word, for the Commission has also stated clearly that the scope and potential for development must be preserved, and indeed the document itself provides for an open-ended process.
Specific initiatives in the field of education, of course, were already being launched back in the sixties and seventies.
Of course I should begin by expressing my thanks for the support given to the concept and to the process itself.
EUROPASS is a good initiative and I am convinced that it will bear fruit.
In January, under the Luxembourg Presidency, we want to launch a campaign to apply EUROPASS in the individual Member States.
I believe that the resources which the Commission has earmarked for the years 2005 and 2006, although modest, have been directed precisely towards support for the concept of EUROPASS.
I would also like to add to what Mrs Prets said, namely that support for intercultural dialogue will increase and that anyone who can find their feet in a broader cultural environment and who masters the language and culture of a particular country will have the same comparative advantage.
I would like to thank you once more for allowing me the opportunity to participate in this discussion and I would like to wish you and all of us every success.
Thank you very much, . &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
