Generalised tariff preferences for the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011 (debate) The next item is the report by Helmuth Markov, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the proposal for a Council regulation applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences for the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011 and amending Regulations (EC) No 552/97, No 1933/2006 and Commission Regulations (EC) No 964/2007 and No 1100/2006 - C6-0051/2008 -.
The GSP scheme is an important pro-development instrument of EU trade policy.
The Commission therefore appreciates the recognition in the opinion that the EU's GSP is the most important such scheme among the developed countries and that it continues to make an important contribution to the objective of promoting development and poverty reduction in the developing world.
The Commission considers that all three components of the scheme - the standard GSP for all beneficiaries, the 'GSP Plus' for those countries that make specific commitments in terms of adherence to international standards for good governance and sustainable development, and the Everything But Arms initiative for the least-developed countries - are operating well and in line with the overall policy orientations put in place for the period 2006-2015.
Firstly, the general arrangement that applies to all beneficiary countries.
Secondly, developing rules for a reform process in which the beneficiaries are included as appropriate.
The CAP restricts imports, hampering developing nations while at the same time dumping its excess in the Third World.
I think, however, that some of the amendments adopted in the Committee on International Trade go too far.
For example, Sri Lanka, which would love to fulfil the goals, but because of many conditions - and I do not want to go into the details - might not be capable of doing so.
I therefore hope that you will look at this during the next period of application, so that no country ends up in this situation, in this limbo into which I think we are putting Vietnam in the GSP system. (PT) The Generalised System of Preferences has proved to be a key trade policy instrument for promoting development and eradicating poverty in the world's most fragile countries and regions through their progressive integration into the international trading system.
It is not often on the Committee on International Trade that we can say that, and that we have that sort of consensus across the parties.
Mrs Quisthoudt-Rowohl's amendments are important.
The aim is to render them more development-friendly, and that process is governed in consultation with the developing countries.
The exclusion - or graduation, for it is fair to use that word of Vietnamese products falling under section 12 (I am now talking about the footwear of the combined nomenclature from the benefits under the proposed GSP regulation for the years 2009-2011) - is being given full attention by all the relevant Commission services.
Concerning the graduation of Vietnam in relation to Section 12, this results from the technical and objective application of the GSP provisions and reflects the fact that Vietnamese exports of these products are more competitive on the Community market.
I am very happy, Commissioner, that you have made some very clear statements on Sri Lanka, because this was also my Committee's concern, and Mrs Mann has carried this out with determination once again.
I think that we are a small step further ahead and that this GSP+ system is very valuable and necessary as part of the European Union's trade agreement.
With the application of SGP in 1971, the EU facilitated international trade with the developing countries and the less developed countries, providing them the necessary technical assistance for observing the international conventions and building the necessary institutional and regulation framework so as to take advantage of international trade and SGP.
