&#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to inform this Assembly that an attack took place this morning in Nassiriya, Iraq, against a European military convoy: three Italian and a Romanian solider were killed.
I believe that this House should remember the sacrifice made by those European citizens, who were doing their jobs and their service in order to promote peace. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr Tajani, and thank you also for informing us of this.
In taking the floor, I simply wanted to explain our position in relation to the duties of the Bureau. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mrs Frassoni.
Mrs Frassoni, I would recommend not only that you write to the President about this matter, but also that you inform your Secretaries-General and your Joint Chairman, and get this raised in the Conference of Presidents.
We need this because 40 000 people are killed on our roads every year and 1.6 million people are injured.
It has produced a Memorandum of Understanding, which binds stakeholders to implement equal and agreed principles and an agreed timetable whereby we will have full-scale tests in 2007, PSAPs will be upgraded by the end of 2007 and we will introduce this in all new vehicles in 2009.
We need to publicise 112 as a lot of people do not know about it.
Many countries are doing that at the moment, but there is still a long way to go.
We will therefore continue our common effort to commit Member States to eCall. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to thank the Commission for its initiative and the rapporteur for his report, which is a laudable contribution to making our roads safer.
In order that the eCall emergency call system may be usable as soon as possible, the European Union should make it clear to the Member States just how important it is that a satellite-based system of emergency call centres and infrastructures be built up everywhere, and without delay.
In this case, the report combines innovation and forward-thinking with safety and a reduction in fatalities, a reduction in the fatalities on the roads which constitute one of the most devastating epidemics of our century.
I also believe that this assistance, which is necessary for vehicles and for their passengers and drivers, should not be restricted to ordinary vehicles – top-of-the-range vehicles, firstly, since they will surely benefit most from these new improvements – but that it should be extended to agricultural vehicles, forestry wardens' vehicles, public works and emergency vehicles, those vehicles whose drivers and passengers are workers who normally use these vehicles to reach remote locations, in dangerous and complicated situations, and which are not generally the kind of vehicles that are equipped with this type of innovation.
Amendments aimed at bringing in measures that would really address the causes of accidents and have real potential for getting people to improve the way they drive, by, for example, abstaining from alcohol or adapting their speed to the driving conditions, get thrown out altogether by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
I find it quite incomprehensible that the costs of this are of no interest to those of you who are at the same time vociferously critical of the much lower costs involved in the single European driving licence and who have campaigned against it in certain Member States.
If one, at one and the same time, rules out all the other measures that prevent accidents without cutting rescue times, then I cannot regard the Transport Committee’s accident avoidance strategy – which relies exclusively on high-cost measures – as a credible one. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of EU Member States are often taken aback by the large numbers of fatalities in road accidents.
Our resolution calls on the 14 remaining countries to join the system, and I believe that that will not take long.
The roll-out of the eCall initiative is to be synchronised with the fully operational phase of the Galileo satellite positioning system, which should start in 2010.
As of today, 134 people have lost their lives on Irish roads since the beginning of this year.
Let us do all in our power to stop the carnage on our roads. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like straightaway to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work and his proposals.
It is a question in this instance of swiftly implementing a European emergency call system that provides a precise indication of where the accident took place and that alerts the nearest emergency services.
In 2003, of the 90&#160;220 accidents recorded in France that caused the deaths of 5&#160;731 people, 4&#160;472 accidents involved heavy goods vehicles, resulting in the deaths of 720 road users, 107 of whom were drivers of heavy goods vehicles.
It is by combining all of these efforts, and not by limiting ourselves to systematic police clampdowns only on motorists, that we will succeed in significantly reducing the number of deaths on our roads. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, since all the sensible groups in this House have expressed their support for the eCall system, I propose, rather than going once more over the same arguments and the ways in which this system benefits mankind, to concentrate on something on which this system will depend, namely the existence of emergency call centres and the need for these to be modern, for I do think that there are still some gaps in the system of emergency call handling centres in the 25 European states.
As Mr Titley said, it is out in the countryside, rather than in the city, that help is needed when an accident happens, but for that to happen, the emergency call system must be available everywhere.
As long ago as 2001, the European Parliament emphasised in a road safety resolution that, in our view, the EU’s road safety policy must also include measures for providing emergency help, medical care and rehabilitation, as well as guidelines for offering better medical aid to the victims of accidents.
The Commission has listened to what Parliament said back in 2001 and now wishes to introduce E112 throughout the EU, this being a measure that would benefit road safety.
If we succeed in providing universal access to the emergency call services, then that will be a small contribution towards helping the injured and towards ensuring that fewer people are seriously injured or killed.
On that assumption, this document will have a great deal of support from me – and, of course, from my group – and I would like to take this opportunity of extending warm thanks to the rapporteur and the Commission for the work they have done. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, where technology can help to make our lives simpler, more comfortable and safer, there we should exploit these possibilities and ensure that as many of us as possible can benefit from them.
The proposal for the introduction of the eCall system falls into this category; eCall can make our lives safer and no doubt help to save them, so let us make use of the possibilities afforded by this new technology.
I have three brief comments to make on certain points, some of which have already been addressed.
As for whether use of the system should be voluntary or whether its introduction should be mandatory, self-evident though it is that the system as a whole can work successfully only with the maximum possible number of participants, we should at least make the attempt to go for the voluntary option in the first instance rather than adopting a heavy-handed governmental approach straightaway. &#160;&#160; &#160;Madam&#160;President, I should like to thank the Commission for its excellent initiative.
I also welcome Mr&#160;Titley’s report and commend him for his commitment to this whole undertaking.
It is also very important for each individual Member State.
In my country, Poland, the average number of deaths in road accidents each year is approximately 5&#160;600.
I could mention the introduction of the euro&#160;5 standards.
The cumulative effect of all these measures on the cost of acquiring a motor vehicle could be significant.
Nonetheless, it is incumbent on us to adopt solutions that will reduce costs to a minimum, especially costs to our citizens, because we do want them to purchase more and more new vehicles and replace older vehicles with new ones. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by congratulating Mr&#160;Titley on his initiative in drafting this report on a subject which brings Europe close to its citizens and by protecting the very valuable gift of life and health.
The eCall system proves that the European Union can give added value to the measures applied by the Member States to prevent and deal with accidents and their multi-dimensional consequences, especially when we think, as has been said, that this system could save approximately 2&#160;500 lives a year, reduce the seriousness of injuries and help to save billions of euros in the overall cost of the consequences.
However, if this ambitious but very humane plan is to be implemented, real support is needed – as my honourable friends have said – from the automotive industry, from citizens themselves and from government departments, so there is good cooperation as regards the cost of implementing this plan and cooperation with the rescue and emergency services and, of course, with all the systems, such as the Galileo system: this means that we can make use of all the technology and the achievements of the European Union, not only for economic reasons, in the broadest sense, but also on matters which affect citizens' lives. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that Europe and its citizens stand to gain from eCall.
That is why this good own-initiative report of Mr&#160;Titley’s is aimed at calling on the Member States, firstly to sign the declaration of intent with respect to eCall as soon as possible, secondly to proceed with the technical implementation of the 112 emergency number and its specification, thirdly to inform the public about the advantages of the eCall system, fourthly to bring the debate on data protection considerations to a prompt conclusion, and, not least, and right now, to take into account the future new approach when modernising emergency call centres and emergency control units.
We cannot fail to support all measures aimed at saving human life and it is abundantly clear that the eCall scheme is one such measure. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to welcome this Commission initiative, and to congratulate Mr&#160;Titley on his outstanding report and on the dynamism that he brought to the discussions in committee.
I feel that this should be an EU-wide implementation and as such should cover these regions.
I feel, moreover, that this report has brought a new dimension to the issue of road safety, in terms of preventing accidents and enhancing and developing infrastructure and equipment for accident victims, whereby important help is offered to people injured in vehicle accidents.
Consequently, this initiative is very much in the interest of the EU and the Member States. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, there are a number of initiatives on safe, intelligent transport, which will contribute towards meeting the European objective of reducing by half the number of lives lost on EU roads by 2010.
This is our primary objective.
In this debate and in the subsequent vote, our task is to provide a vital impetus for the eCall system to be developed and rolled out across Europe by 2009.
The system may save thousands of lives per year and help to reduce considerably both the degree of seriousness of the injuries and the costs relating to accidents.
The eCall project should be welcomed and deserves Parliament’s support.
All of the stakeholders have broadly welcomed the initiative.
It is therefore essential that the Member States that have yet to act upon the Memorandum of Understanding on implementing eCall do so without delay.
I should like to congratulate the Commission on its initiative and Mr&#160;Titley on his outstanding report. &#160;&#160; Madam President, there is a great need for agreements about eCall to be concluded at European level, because only a standardised system can guarantee help in the case of accidents abroad.
The eCall system can, in addition to 112, make an important contribution to reducing the number of traffic fatalities in Europe, but its doing so is dependent on the Member States speeding up its introduction.
Fortunately, the Netherlands can serve as a good example in this, because it is making haste, but this should be done on a Europe-wide basis.
It should not be expensive to introduce the eCall system successfully.
This technology facilitates the first steps in the direction of intelligent vehicles, that is, safer vehicles, and thereby safer transport.
The GPS satellite positioning system enables calls for assistance even without human involvement.
The introduction of Galileo, the largest new virtual infrastructure of Europe, will start in 2010.
Finally, I think that it is imperative that we examine the experiences of our Member States following the introduction of the single European emergency call number, 112.
With this strong support from Parliament, the Commission will continue its efforts aimed at the introduction of the pan-European eCall by 2009.
Since that meeting, my services have been in constant liaison with Member States, and several eCall conferences have been held at national level: in Helsinki, Lisbon, Budapest, Madrid and elsewhere.
I am sure today’s action by Parliament will be very important in speeding this up.
I should like to say a very heartfelt ‘thank you’ to the rapporteur and to all Members from all the political groups who will help us, not only today but also tomorrow, to make eCall a very important European project.
The vote will take place today, at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; Road safety directly concerns all of the inhabitants of the European Union.
Increased mobility comes at a high cost: each year 1&#160;300&#160;000 accidents cause over 40&#160;000 deaths and 1&#160;700&#160;000 injuries.
In particular, one out of two Italians uses his or her own car to get around.
That is why our country is so aware of the problem of road safety and of reducing traffic jams caused by accidents.
Ecall could save as many as 2&#160;500 lives each year, reduce the number of traffic jams and help improve the efficiency of road transport at European level by reducing external costs, which have been estimated at EUR&#160;4&#160;billion in Europe and are somewhere in the region of 2% of GDP in Italy. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0074/2006) by Mr&#160;Mavrommatis, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on measures to promote multilingualism and language learning in the European Union: European Indicator of Language Competence (2005/2213(INI)). &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question of multilingualism, especially in an enlarged Europe, is more important now than it has ever been.
The proposal sent to us by the Commission follows on from the decision by the European Council in Barcelona in March 2002, at which the Heads of State or Government called for improvements to the learning of basic skills with the teaching, from a very early age, of at least two languages.
Three years later, the Commission is proposing to create a European Indicator of Language Competence, common to all the Member States and with a high level of accuracy and reliability.
This Common European Framework of Reference is widely accepted and is already used in many of the Member States.
That is why I do not agree with Amendments 1 and 2, given that they do not refer to this specific report, do not improve the cohesion of the test and do not agree with the objectives of the indicator of linguistic competence.
The indicator of linguistic competence is no more than a technical instrument that will be financed through an existing programme, namely the lifelong learning programme, the main purpose of which is to substantially strengthen the mobility of citizens, workers or students in the European Union.
Broadly speaking, the European Indicator of Language Competence is considered to be an extremely valuable instrument for obtaining reliable information on the linguistic proficiency of Europeans, in particular young people, enabling comparisons to be drawn between Member State policies on linguistic matters and facilitating the identification and exchanges of best practices, thereby giving fresh impetus to language teaching.
We must not forget that 2006 is the 'European Year of Workers' Mobility', in which case I feel that it offers us a very important opportunity to highlight the importance of the skills of European citizens and to offer young people an incentive to attach greater importance and attention to the learning of foreign languages.
We await the decisions of the Council on 18 May on the subject of the indicator of language competence with great interest.
I am sure that diversity and unity is the best basis for our enlarged European Union in this 21st century and this diversity is strongly represented and built up further by multilingualism.
The European Indicator of Language Competence is a very important instrument for making real progress in the area of multilingualism, which means language teaching, language learning and communication between different language communities in Europe.
Mr Mavrommatis called on the Commission to encourage early language learning.
We are currently funding a study of best practice in early language learning and the communication invites Member States to review their arrangements for early language learning in the light of best practice across Europe.
Further steps ahead of us are, for example, the creation of a high-level working group on multilingualism to develop new ideas and initiatives in this area.
This indicator will show us a general level of foreign language knowledge.
As well as contributing to an improvement in communication and mutual understanding amongst the citizens of Europe, this system will also lead to a qualitative improvement in the teaching of foreign languages in European education and training systems, thereby contributing to the achievement of the Lisbon objectives.
The indicator will stimulate the exchange and knowledge of the good practices of the various Member States and will be a reliable system for measuring progress, initially in the five languages most widely taught within the Union: English, French, German, Spanish and Italian.
The choice of these five languages for the first stage should not prejudice the other European languages, but it should represent the beginning of a process, without ruling out the possibility of including other languages during subsequent stages, of course.
Before I finish, I would like to make it clear that, although this report is not the right place to deal with the situation of the minority languages or of other non-European languages, but that it is intended to improve the language competency of the citizens, the quality of teaching and learning systems for the official European languages, it should not in any way prejudice the recognition and protection of those languages that are not official in the Union, but which are official in certain Member States.
It is, in fact, a country that does not insist on using its own national language, Luxemburgish, and in which people do not hesitate to speak German, French and English.
We should therefore provide for the school system in all of the European countries, in general, and make multilingualism more accessible, in particular. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, esteemed rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, like the previous speakers, I too wish to emphasise how important the regional and national linguistic minorities are in this connection.
In the Nordic countries and the Baltic Sea region, it is helpful to know, for example, Swedish, Russian or Finnish.
A lack of knowledge of these languages both alienates people from each other and impairs basic economic conditions.
Respect for those who speak a minority or regional language is also of fundamental importance to European stability.
I therefore strongly support Mrs&#160;Resetarit’s proposal that neighbouring countries’ languages and regional and minority languages be included in the strategy.
Traditionally, linguistic and regional minorities have been strong advocates of Europe and been prepared to learn other languages.
It is also partly in order to increase and consolidate the population’s confidence in the European Union that it is important to respect and affirm national linguistic and regional minorities.
Too often, the majority populations of the EU Member States now wish to ignore their regional and national linguistic minorities. &#160;&#160; . – The creation of a European indicator of language competence is something on which we can all agree.
I understand this, but I cannot understand why those same practical reasons are behind the decision to assess, and I quote, ‘the five most widely-spoken languages in the EU’.
The objective that we share, that every child should learn to speak at least two languages apart from their mother tongue, can be assessed.
One might find, for example, that Turkish, Arabic, Chinese and Russian are important languages in the Union and that the children of immigrants are the closest to being able to speak two languages in addition to their mother tongue.
I should briefly like to make a second comment.
The content and organisation of national education systems is an area in which the EU, in theory, has no jurisdiction, and this report highlights why.
Mr&#160;Mavrommatis’ report deals exclusively with the motion for a European Parliament resolution on measures to promote multilingualism and language learning in the European Union, together with establishing language competence.
It enshrines a strong preference towards two or five languages.
The administrative dimension of language is quite different from its economic or cultural dimensions.
No thought is given to the fact that the European Union will only become strong and have a if it becomes user-friendly and if it makes it possible for its citizens to demonstrate respect for each other and for their cultural differences, including linguistic ones. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there is, of course, in our interconnected world, no alternative to the acquisition of new knowledge or to the mastering of more than one language.
It is an unfortunate fact that this House is as yet the only institution that not only reaches its decision in full public view but also makes them accessible to the public in their own national languages.
The Commission will, however, give way to the pressure exerted by the German and now have the progress report on the accession countries translated, so perhaps this gives rise to the hope that more use will be made of German under the Finnish Presidency. &#160;&#160; Every nation is proud of its language and wishes to preserve and use it in a united Europe too.
The cultural image of Europe is enriched by linguistic diversity.
European Union institutions should also play a more important role where there are infringements of minority rights, and should issue serious warnings to countries that guarantee minority rights on paper, but in practice violate their own laws and also the rules of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, it is with pleasure that I congratulate the rapporteur on the completion of this much-needed report.
It is not likely, however, that the Barcelona objective will be achieved at the present level of effort, because the acquisition of two languages in addition to one’s mother tongue is very time-consuming and difficult.
The European language proficiency indicator is, however, primarily important for motivating the Member States’ own citizens in creating a certain comparative and competitive advantage.
This would cause language to be torn out of the ground without its roots.
I would even go further and say that, if we think not only in a European way, but also globally, it will be a very good thing if our children and grandchildren are open to all the languages of the world.
Hence the great significance of the European Union’s language policy, which requires citizens in the Member States to start learning a first foreign language between the ages of 6 to 12, for example, and to begin a second after the age of 12.
The European Indicator of Language Competence is very appropriate, because assessment, examinations and diplomas are a source of motivation.
For instance, Polish is not a very popular language at present, but Poland is a large country, and it could soon generate significant interest in our language too. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as a&#160;member of the Committee on Culture and Education I&#160;would like to state that this Committee has respected the principle of subsidiarity and has taken into consideration national interests while successfully pursuing the European legislative framework for the areas under its political purview.
Mr&#160;Manolis&#160;Maurommatis’s report on measures to promote multilingualism and language learning in the EU Union – the European Indicator of Language Competence – is another such example, and I&#160;would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his work.
As a rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Education dealing with drafting the European Qualifications Framework, which is primarily designed to set up a&#160;reference structure to transfer and recognise qualifications, I&#160;find it important to establish reliable systems for measuring progress and verifying language proficiency.
As there is not enough information at present to evaluate the language skills of EU citizens properly, I&#160;am convinced that the proposed European Indicator of Language Competence should provide a key yardstick to be used by EU Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur Mr Mavrommatis for the hard work he has put into preparing this excellent report.
To substantiate my position, let me use the example of our Parliament, which represents a much-scaled-down model of the multilingual EU.
In this House, representing 25 Member States, we communicate using 20 different languages.
In fact it is laid down in the Treaties establishing this Union that we have the right to use our mother tongue to communicate in the organs of the EU.
If I were to speak in my mother tongue, Greek, to my Estonian colleague, then what I say in Greek has to be translated first into most probably English or French and then translated for the second time from English or French into Estonian.
The true unity of Europe will be achieved when we have a common working language of communication.
This is in fact going to happen in the future whether we like it or not.
Therefore, why can we not be brave enough to take the common-sense step and at the same time as supporting multilingualism start laying down the foundations for deciding which second language will be the common language for Europe?
In this instance, however, I would like to point out that the Indicator of Language Competence is an instrument for learning languages rather than for assessing their specific use in a social, economic or other context.
Language plays a&#160;specific role in this process, of course, but it is not the deciding factor.
The Member States have been discussing this topic and will take a decision on it at the Council of Ministers meeting on 19 May.
Mr&#160;Manolis Mavrommatis has indeed incorporated into his report everything we need to have in the EU’s policy on multilingualism. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today, at 11 a.m., that is to say in a few minutes time. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Members of the House, one of the greatest advantages of the European Union is that its citizens can express themselves in their mother tongues in EU matters, and the preservation of linguistic diversity and cultures is an objective of the European Union.
However, this advantage often turns into a disadvantage, because it creates communication difficulties between Member States.
In Central and Eastern Europe, we have seen that young people who speak several languages, who have the possibility of learning one or two languages in their childhood, at school, are at an advantage.
And paragraph 5b: ‘Expects that the accounts thereby established will be audited and the funds credited to the accounts will be entered in the general budget’. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that what we actually wanted to do today was to give discharge to the European Parliament and the administrative authorities, but, over the last two days, we have been presented with new events and new facts, which we have not been able to examine while producing this report.
I therefore also ask you to vote ‘no’ in the first round of voting, so that all the questions that have been raised can be answered in a proper manner. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we would have preferred it to be sent straight back to the Committee, but since, as Mr Ferber has explained, this is not a substantively negative decision on the discharge, we too will vote against in order to make a broad consensus possible. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, agree with what the rapporteur has said.
Regrettable though it is from the legal point of view, in no way does this circumstance justify negative comments of any kind on our part today, whether about the administration, the City of Strasbourg, or third parties.
Through this vote that you have now held, I no longer regard myself as responsible for the resolution and recommend that you vote against it. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report was debated very late at night yesterday, and so there were few Members present.
The report was the subject of a great deal of interest in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, where some 150 amendments were tabled to it, most of which could be dealt with by the drafting of compromise amendments.
I believe that that is completely at odds with what we are about to vote on, and we, as a group, will appeal. &#160;&#160; – Mrs Frassoni, that is the second time today and I think it is not on the agenda.
If we were to change the name of this delegation we should do the same for all those countries that have complex names.
If that name reflects the fact that Iran currently refers to itself as an Islamic Republic, this could mean that this House might not be interested in contacts with Iran under a different regime, although a change in regime is both likely and desirable.
The regime believes in everything to which the pursuit of democracy and human rights is opposed.
The only way to improve this situation is if the Iranian opposition, which is partly living in exile in Europe, is given the opportunity of running their country in a normal manner.
Furthermore, any analysis of this proposal would have to be done on an across-the-board basis, addressing all of the countries with which Parliament has delegations and which also have different official names from those used in the parliamentary name.
It is the time to negotiate, of course, but to do so resolutely.
The idea of solidarity, risk-sharing and mutual help lies at the heart of cases such as these, and deserves my support. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, on the subject of the Prets report, I believe it to be a platitude to say that cultural diversity has to be promoted.
I feel that the amendments to the Kindermann report that have been adopted enhance the Commission’s original proposal and have brought it up to speed with the actual situation in the Member States in this field. &#160;&#160; We voted in favour of the report on the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting.
It is important for piracy to be combated, but we are dubious about continued harmonisation of copyright. &#160;&#160; We have voted against the report on the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting because we do not believe that decisions on matters such as this should be taken at EU level.
Among many other aspects that are worthy of criticism and that we reject, I wish to highlight the following: - the use of so-called ‘integration’ processes – always following a model imposed by the EU – as an instrument for promoting capitalist integration and the liberalisation of trade, to the benefit of the major powers and the large economic and financial groups; - the creation of the largest possible free trade areas, on the basis of bilateral and multilateral agreements, in order to attain a level of trade liberalisation that has hitherto been impossible to introduce at the WTO; - the creation of a so-called ‘bi-regional conflict prevention centre’ as a means of paving the way for EU interference in Latin America (not to be reciprocated); - lastly, showing lamentable consistency, the total lack of condemnation of the criminal embargo on Cuba and the USA’s extra-territorial laws against the country.
Hence our vote against. &#160;&#160; This own-initiative report is about the form to be taken in the future by cooperation between the EU and Latin America.
It is certainly true that a very large part of Latin America’s population lives in poverty, but it is not the EU that is the solution to the problem.
In relevant cases, aid should be provided by individual Member States or through UN bodies.
Sixty years later, ultraliberal policies, institutional shortcomings and the difficult relationship with the neighbouring United States have had consequences that can be observed in the Andes or the favelas of Rio.
The EU has a duty towards the citizens of its Member States, and as a member of the international community, to play a unique role in its immediate sphere of influence.
I therefore support this report. &#160;&#160; .
Now we learn on top of all that the City of Strasbourg may well have been using the decision to exploit its monopoly to defraud the people of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Ferber’s report on the 2004 discharge of the European Parliament is fundamentally dishonest.
That is a unanimous decision taken by the Heads of State or Government, which has been enshrined in the European Treaties since the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1999.
Just as some people want to make France and the Netherlands vote again on the defunct European Constitution, others indulge in wishful thinking and want to do away with the European Parliament’s base in Strasbourg in flagrant breach of the Treaties.
I do not believe these events are unconnected with the politics of this institution.
The country’s inclusion in the neighbourhood policy could prove an important step in this direction.
The Commission is responsible for the expenditure of all EU funds but, in reality, the power is delegated to paying agencies in Member States.
It also calls for a common immigration policy to suit these ends, not least in the area of recruitment in the information and communications technology (ICT) sector.
This report by Mrs in 't Veld does not accept that analysis limiting state aids, in my opinion, unreasonably.
The eCall system, which will help save human lives on Europe’s roads and reduce the severity of injuries, will have a very favourable cost-benefit ratio.
The eCall system will serve the hundreds of millions of citizens who every year travel abroad by car.
The advantage of this system is not only that it will help save lives but also that it will reduce congestion time and contribute to the efficiency of road transportation in Europe with a reduction of external costs.
This system, which would enable 2&#160;500 lives to be saved each year, must quite clearly be promoted by the public authorities of all the countries and demanded by the citizens, who are increasingly calling for safer roads.
It is therefore regrettable that some Member States – such as France, in which road safety has nonetheless been declared an important national cause – should be late in implementing ‘Bringing eCall to citizens’.
Let us hope that the adoption of the Titley report and the publicity it will receive in the European Union will speed up the implementation by all of the Member States of this essential intelligent car system. &#160;&#160; It is important to give priority to road safety issues and to work to bring about a reduction in the number of fatalities on our roads.
The Member States must adopt positions on this matter without political lectures from the EU institutions.
The creation of a ‘multilingual’ society, in which every citizen has the opportunity to learn at least two languages other than their mother tongue will help to foster closer ties between citizens of different EU Member States.
In both resolutions now being dealt with, the European Parliament is shamelessly trying to get involved in language teaching and the adjustment of education systems to, for example, new technology and digitalisation.
In its proposals, however, the European Parliament is, as usual, going too far in its ambition to develop policy areas at EU level within every possible subject area.
The Catalan language which, with more than 15&#160;million speakers, is used more widely that Finnish, Danish, Latvian or even Dutch, cannot be overlooked in the European Parliament.
English, Spanish, Portuguese and French, in that order, along with, to some extent, German and Italian, are special vehicles of communication with the rest of the world and as such deserve preferential support and encouragement from the EU. &#160;&#160; – I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
