Community Customs Code - Customs 2013 programme (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the reports: by Mrs Fourtou, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the Community Customs Code (Modernized Customs Code) C6-0419/2005, and by Mrs Fourtou, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing an action programme for customs in the Community (Customs 2013) C6-0158/2006.
The present Community Customs Code was adapted in 1992.
With your support, the proposal for a modernised Customs Code on the table tonight, together with the proposals on the Council table and e-customs, will make customs work better, faster and more cheaply.
I am pleased to report that on 4 December the Competitiveness Council showed a keen interest in the key elements of the reform.
I would like to thank Parliament for its constructive contribution to the debate on these three issues, but I must also inform you that in at least one of them the Commission's position remains unchanged.
The speedy adoption of Customs 2013 shows that there is a broad agreement across all the institutions on the obvious need to guarantee the effective functioning of the internal market in the customs field.
The Customs 2013 programme will be an essential instrument to ensure efficient cooperation and coordination between all customs administrations.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 'modernised Customs Code', 'paperless Customs', 'Customs 2013 programme', these three reports that we are discussing in this session demonstrate the growing importance of customs and their role in the European Union's desire for competitiveness and efficiency.
These three reports are closely linked but, in the interests of greater clarity, I shall first present the modernised Customs Code and then move on to the Customs 2013 programme.
It was legitimate to modernise it in order to adapt it to the evolving range of tasks undertaken by Customs and the radical changes that have taken place in international trade.
The new Code includes 200 articles and we have concentrated on the principal points, or at least the most controversial points, that is, the customs representative, the authorised economic operator, centralised customs clearance and comitology.
Article 11 is concerned with the customs representative.
The authorised economic operator was introduced into the Customs Code by means of Regulation 648 of 13 April 2005, known as the 'security regulation'.
The Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection has adopted a fairly radical position in demanding that electronic customs clearance operations should be free of charge and that customs-offices should be open 24 hours a day.
Reading the mid-term evaluation of the Customs 2007 programme has demonstrated that this programme is well adapted to the needs of administrations and that it plays a crucial role in helping participating countries to share their experiences.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on International Trade. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, Commissioner, I wish to congratulate you on the important work that you and your services have accomplished in the interests of modernisation of customs legislation, which is a necessary condition for the good functioning of our internal market.
At a time when Europe is being closely watched, I regret that Rule 47 of our Rules of Procedure has been violated in respect of strengthened cooperation between committees, because the amendments voted for unanimously by the Committee on International Trade have been brushed aside in an irregular manner and will not, alas, be put to the vote in plenary.
Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the failure of the Doha agenda harms the rules of international trade, we must protect our producers and our consumers from security and safety problems thanks to border controls.
I think that this report on the Modernised Customs Code helps to simplify existing customs procedures and will also help to improve the competitiveness of European enterprises.
I think that the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection has reached a good compromise on this, one which gives these persons greater freedom in the performance of their activities.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will therefore withdraw its Amendment 57 and support the compromise reached in the Committee on Internal Market.
Finally, I should like to highlight and champion the amendment to Article 125 that was tabled by Mr Heaton-Harris on behalf of our group.
In short, Mr President, we are in agreement with Mrs Fourtou's report; I believe that we could reach an agreement very quickly amongst the three institutions in order to approve the two reports, and we hope that this Parliament will approve the amendments from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs without any great difficulty.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (SV) Mr President, I should firstly like to offer my sincere thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Fourtou, for the splendid job she has done.
The third proposal establishing an action programme for duties in the Community 'Customs-2013' intensifies cooperation between customs administrations and their officials.
I am therefore very pleased about the reports on customs codification by our fellow Members and friends, Mrs Fourtou and Mr Audy, particularly because, since 1919 in the case of Germany, 1934-35 for France, 1938 for Mexico, and so on, we had lost our codifying ambition.
In this way we shall at last achieve a reconciliation between international free trade, which is necessary and national social protection, which is equally necessary.
This is the marriage of David Ricardo, the free trader, and Friedrich List, the protectionist. (SK) To begin with, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mrs Fourtou and Mr Heaton-Harris, for their work in drafting these technically demanding reports.
It must be modernised to reflect the changes that have since taken place and must address those changes.
To this end, opening up to new technologies - as well as placing greater value on those technologies and even enforcing their use - represents a highly significant step that should help strengthen the competitiveness of the European economy.
Turkey promised the European Union 18 months ago that it would do so and that, accordingly, Turkish ports and airports would be open to Cypriot ships and air traffic.
Therefore, we have amended Article 11 of the new Customs Code, so that there is no numerical limitation in this particular profession, the recognition of customs representatives throughout the European Union Member States is established and, of course, there is free competition in the sector, in general.
To conclude, I should like to stress that modernising the Customs Code cannot in any way be identified as deregulation of the labour market of serious professionals who historically have proven their effectiveness. (PL) Mr President, the European Union's customs system should serve two main purposes.
Unfortunately, despite the existence of the Customs 2007 Programme and the allocation of almost EUR 150 million, these aims have not been fully achieved.
One only has to consider the negative impact on the Community market of large-scale smuggling of alcohol and tobacco products, and recently also of liquid fuels.
I very much hope that the EUR 323 million allocated for the implementation of the Customs 2013 programme will allow significant improvements to be made.
The Commission has given appropriate consideration to Parliament's 58 amendments to the Modernised Customs Code and has found the majority - as many as 32 - acceptable, 9 acceptable in principle or in part and only 17 unacceptable.
On comitology, I believe that our legal services have come to conclusions that are not too dissimilar.
Such administrative measures play an essential role in the uniform and proportionate application of customs legislation.
The Commission cannot agree with Amendments 23 and 25 relating to customs fees.
I should also mention Amendments 30, 40 and 41, which aim at granting benefits to railway companies.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
