Decision on urgent procedure We begin by voting on a request to apply urgent procedure to the proposal for a Council Regulation amending, as regards the exemptions to the freezing of funds and economic resources and for the tenth time, Regulation (EC) No 881/2002 imposing certain specific restrictive measures directed against certain persons and entities associated with Osama bin Laden, the Al Qaeda network and the Taliban [COM(2003) 41 - C5-0048/2003 - 2003/0015(CNS)] I would first give the floor to Mr Hernández Mollar, Chairman of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
Madam President, this proposal for a Council recommendation is based on Article 152 of the Treaty, which stipulates that Community action complementing national measures is to cover the fight against the major health scourges.
Deaths indirectly related to drug use, such as AIDS, traffic accidents, violence or suicide, bring this figure to approximately 20 000 a year.
This is what the main part of the recommendation is about.
The risk reduction methods that feature in the recommendation are well established.
Methadone first appeared in the EU in the late 1960s in response to emerging opiate use.
However, the risk reduction methods covered by this recommendation are likely to have made a large contribution to this favourable development.
The recommendation emphasises evaluation as a key tool for improving drugs-related measures.
The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction in Lisbon plays a crucial role in the development of key indicators for monitoring and comparing drug use in the Member States.
The Commission has received invaluable help from the Lisbon agency in preparing this recommendation, which I see as a positive step for drug users as well as public health in general.
Madam President, Commissioner, unfortunately, drug abuse is one of today's major social problems, meaning that the measures and policies applied so far have been inadequate.
The 2002 annual report of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction shows that the level of drug use is fairly stable, with 2 to 9 users per 1 000 population in the 15 to 64 age group, 500 000 to 1 000 000 of whom are drug injectors, that is, heroin addicts.
That is why, even though the primary objective when dealing with this problem is still and always will be prevention, I think this is a very important initiative and I congratulate you, Commissioner, on your proposal on the prevention and reduction of risks associated with drug dependence.
Our proposed amendments mainly specify the action needed at local level if we are to achieve maximum possible results in this difficult and sensitive sector.
However, as we know, a large number of drug addicts do not sign up for treatment programmes, and it is basically this group that has the most problems.
As you know, Commissioner, the drug debate has been a topical debate for quite some time now and always gives rise to a great many, usually conflicting views.
In my country we have 3 million people on illegal drugs, 28% of them are 16-29 year olds, 14% of them are 14-15 year olds.
We have 12 000 new notified addicts, 70 000 drug offences and 1 200 drug related deaths per year.
If you look at the European figures from the MCDDA, offences in the EU have doubled since 1991 and quadrupled in some countries such as France, Greece and Spain.
Acute drug related deaths have doubled since 1985.
There are so many young people who need and deserve our support.
Prison health needs to be looked at and we need to stop the abuse of drugs in prison, but we also need to ensure there is harm reduction and that we do not incorporate perverse incentives to further drug taking.
I welcome this report.
Madam President, this report concerns the prevention and reduction of risks associated with drug dependence.
These are proposals that we cannot under any circumstances support.
Drug-related deaths are on the up, and that seems to be the case in most of the Member States.
For all these reasons, the Liberal Group welcomes the amendments that add value to this recommendation in terms of public health.
As regards this latter practice of using drugs and alcohol at the same time, which is cutting swathes through young people in particular - and they are getting ever younger - it is imperative that, in parallel with one another, schemes for prevention, information, analysis of chemical substances and providing a rapid response in the event of illness or withdrawal, should be operated and made widely available.
The 8000 citizens who are dying every year in the European Union, from overdoses, from adulterated products, or as a result of shared needles, deserve a full-frontal approach to risk reduction on the part of the European Union.
The report and the Commission communication refer to the prevention and reduction of risks.
It puts social workers in touch with users, and it also helps assess the dangerous substances that are available on the market.
Parliament's resolution on the Action Plan to Combat Drugs (2000-2004) clearly indicated at the time that drug abuse results in biological, psychological and social problems, disease, problems with families and at work, committing offences, traffic accidents, and so on.
For these reasons, in 1999 the same resolution called for everything to be done to give priority to protecting children under the age of 18 and to reduce the number of drug-related deaths.
The most serious drug problems affect intravenous drugs users, of whom there are, according to the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, between 500 000 and one million in the European Union.
In practice the switch to hard drugs has also been shown to be much easier; after all, the use of drugs is already accepted.
The recommendation before us is about the health risks associated with drug addiction.
The European Commission mainly places the emphasis on limiting the risks instead of prevention.
The rapporteur is arguing for additional measures, particularly for the care of drug users at local level, for example by helping drug users achieve a healthier life.
The effects on health can best be reduced by means of a restrictive policy.
This phenomenon goes hand in hand with the social acceptance of the marketing of them for recreational purposes, sometimes on a daily basis.
Furthermore, the deterioration of drug addicts' health is of concern, but also the health risks arising from infection such as HIV, tuberculosis, hepatitis B and hepatitis C, as well as the increasing number of deaths from overdoses and poisoning.
Many of these experiments have shown positive results in reducing crime, the number of overdoses by poisoning and the number of those infected with HIV, tuberculosis, hepatitis B and hepatitis C.
Madam President, drug addiction is a complicated problem with significant social consequences for the user and for his or her environment, with risks to health and ongoing crime.
There are, however, not only social consequences, but also social causes.
Our rapporteur, Minerva Malliori, deserves our firm support for her approach.
Conversely, the policy of damage limitation is precisely what makes a convincing approach to drugs crime possible.
This report is a good opportunity for us to familiarise ourselves with the approach in various countries.
This paper is an excellent step forward.
That is why, out of the two kinds of treatment still being debated, many of us still prefer the more human approach of rehabilitation communities, therapeutic communities, to the administration of chemical substances which are alternatives to or substitutes for drugs.
Madam President, I am deeply concerned, Commissioner.
More and more young people in Europe are ending up in the type of squalor brought about by drugs.
The only way to achieve that goal is through a combination of bans, care, preventive work and international cooperation.
Young people and children in my country currently do not know where they stand.
What we ought to be sending out today is a signal from a Europe that is engaging in the fight against drugs in a serious and consistent way - by means of prevention, certainly, by supporting addicts and their families, certainly, but also if necessary by means of compulsory detoxification programmes for addicts and by means of the toughest possible penalties for drug dealers.
The Member States must also be able to maintain a protection from imports system that would make possible a national, health-promoting policy on alcohol.
I think that this report now presents us with a more holistic approach.
The analysis is very comprehensive and good.
But it is not just an individual problem; it is an issue not only for the individual, the family and their immediate circle, but also for the local community and society at large.
It is then an issue for the whole of society and I believe that this phenomenon - which after being played down is now once again entering a new phase in which a holistic approach is being adopted - can only be tackled through dialogue and with the help and willingness of the entire community - the local community in particular - to provide care.
Let me first make it clear that prevention will always be our priority.
This is not an alternative, but an important other element in the fight against drugs.
I am pleased to say that the Commission agrees with 41 out of the 66 proposed amendments.
But the use of these drugs is on the increase.
Some users show a compulsive use pattern and they are frequently part of a network where drug use is very common.
As I have said, many of the suggested amendments can be supported, but time does not allow me to mention all of them.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at midday.
Her story so inspired my colleague that a petition was lodged with the European Parliament which showed that Margot was not alone.
There are many Margots in the UK and across the EU with similar stories concerning problems with silicone.
Member States are to adopt and publish laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this directive no later than 1 August 2003.
My report aims to answer both the legitimate concerns of thousands of women and the need to put patient safety first.
Therefore, the report recommends Member States to take measures to increase and improve information for patients through tracking and surveillance, quality control and assurance.
This includes all forms of direct advertising, such as in magazines and the use of 'before and after' pictures.
I hope that in the future more women will be able to make informed choices and they will not have to suffer in the way that so many women like Margot have in the past.
I hope that the Commission will be able to report back to Parliament on how far the Member States have gone in implementing this reclassification, and will continue to monitor the issue of silicone-gel breast implants, always putting patient safety first.
I am pleased to inform Parliament that, last week, the Commission adopted a directive reclassifying breast implants in the context of the legislation on medical devices.
More precisely, breast implants have been reclassified from class IIB to class III.
This will increase the level of safety of breast implants.
Furthermore, at the request of the Commission and the Member States, CEN, the European Standardisation Body, is proceeding to an in-depth review of the European standards on breast implants.
The Commission received encouraging information from Member States regarding national measures taken, or further developed, under the recommendations set out in our communication of November 2001.
This information will be made available to Parliament in a Commission staff working document on national measures adopted or planned to be adopted by Member States in relation to breast implants.
This paper will be finalised in the coming weeks.
The excellent cooperation between Parliament and the Commission on this subject should be highlighted, since the overall result has been extremely positive.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thousands of women have petitioned Parliament to take a stand on the dangers inherent in the use of silicone breast implants.
Silicon implants were used for years before there was regulation or surveillance of their use.
Public health and healthcare issues are for the most part the competence of the Member States.
Ladies and gentlemen, in my view, breast implants are also an integral part of health.
Following this, it organised a hearing that attracted wide media coverage, and, as rapporteur, I was entrusted with the task of drafting a resolution, which Parliament adopted unanimously on 13 June 2001.
My only regret is that the idea of issuing a passport to the patients was not retained in the initial report, and it is for that reason that I will be supporting Amendment No 3 to paragraph 10 (ii), resubmitted on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which aims to reintroduce such a passport.
Moreover, such a system would, above all, allow the patient to have real knowledge of the implant's specific characteristics.
Breast implants are covered by the directive on medical devices.
In Germany alone, that means over 50 000 women every year.
In the post-operative care of breast cancer patients, breast implants are often a decisive factor in increasing their quality of life.
We think it is vital for this meeting to take place at least four to six weeks before an appointment is agreed for the operation, so as to give the women concerned a cooling-off period to reflect on the objective and reliable information that they have received.
This is also the point made in the amendment that I have tabled to paragraph 9 of the report.
Where silicon implants are concerned, we need high standards of safety and quality at international level.
For this reason, we need cross-border registration of breast implants to be made compulsory at international level.
In this context, the EU Member States should be advised to become members of the international breast implant register.
The scientific research carried out over the last few years has yielded some decisive findings in this field.
We therefore also think it is important to support this research and guarantee that the scientific work continues across Europe.
Overall the Commission Communication, together with the amendments proposed by Parliament, constitutes an important step in the right direction.
It is not a question of making it more difficult to use breast implants, for either medical or cosmetic reasons.
The passport should be signed by the doctor and the patient before the operation as a clear declaration of consent.
That is why it is of the utmost urgency to start setting up a national register for breast implants in all of the Member States immediately, and to join the international breast implant register.
In Belgium alone over the past ten years, over 4 000 prosthetic implants were inserted, with, in 1999, 313 women needing hospital in-patient treatment because of complications.
So there are at least three reasons to justify this action being taken at Community level: improving information for patients in certain cases; shedding the maximum possible light on the potential secondary effects of having a breast implant, in particular by means of research; and, of course, taking into account the petitions presented by citizens' groups, giving consideration to whether or not their request that silicon implants of this sort be subject to an immediate ban is well founded.
The Liberal Group does not, however, support all the measures advocated by this report, specifically mandatory entry in national registers, or Amendment No 3, which proposes the introduction of a passport for wearers of implants, which strike us as being like so many ideas which appear to be good but turn out to be misguided.
The problem became public knowledge because one of the women who had been given implants had to have both her breasts removed.
The provision of non-commercial information through national public health services is the way forward.
All Member States should do the same in relation to breast implants because they always involve certain risks.
The promotion of cosmetic surgery in general is a major problem.
It is true that there are, in many cases, health and psychological reasons for breast implants, but we need to be careful in that regard.
This applies not only to women but also to men.
As an oncological surgeon and university research scientist, I read the report very carefully and support many of the proposals it contains.
In 1986, the University of Los Angeles examined 3000 women who had had implants for at least six years and found no risk of increasing neoplasia or to mobility.
In 1992, the University of Calgary, examining 11 000 women, reached the same conclusions.
As regards paragraph 10a, I would like to point out that patient consent forms are already in use in all the States of the Union.
It is compulsory for the patient to sign a form after receiving all the necessary information, before any treatment is applied, including implants.
I therefore feel it superfluous to mention a passport.
I do not think that this has anything to do with personal experience but rather with the fact that we do, after all, feel a close bond with the thousands of women who submitted the petition to Parliament.
We do not want a ban; a woman must be able to decide for herself in good faith whether she wants breast implants or not.
In Europe we know too little about breast implants, we know too little about the dangers, we know too little about where these women are and what the consequences are.
These are the people who are warning against this happening again and are pleading for a ban.
A positive point in the rapporteur's proposal is to prohibit advertising for this solution and to improve advice on the negative consequences and on alternatives.
This shows that those who carry out these operations are not always reliable and that there is an extreme lack of information.
I believe that many more binding commitments are required on the part of those who carry out these implants.
I am very satisfied with the report.
We, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, fully support the report and the amendments tabled.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all colleagues who have worked on this report for keeping this issue in the spotlight.
The rapporteur told you a story about a woman called Margot Cameron who came to see me eight years ago.
We started campaigning and raised the issue at national level and finally took it to European level.
By that time we had contacted groups throughout Europe and brought the issue to the Petitions Committee in 1998, though looking around this room and I do not see anybody who was at that Committee.
It is estimated that 20 000 of those implants have either leaked or ruptured during that period.
This shows that we have to address these issues and problems more speedily when they arise and not let women suffer in the way they have in the past.
This report is entitled 'breast implants', but it is also possible to get silicone implants for other parts of the body, and they cause the same damage.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have come here to voice my solidarity with the people who for years have been making efforts to finally get this problem onto the political agenda.
The fact that prostheses are available for the many women who have had to undergo mastectomies is naturally an advantage, and we must not forget that this represents important progress in itself.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are, then, well and truly members of a society with wall-to-wall media coverage, one that is inclined to favour certain aesthetic notions that tempt not only many women but also many men to change their appearance.
In every case, it is essential that prostheses in the form of breast implants be subject to investigation and regulation and that all surgery be accompanied by safety information and be followed up, over the very long term in the case of women patients.
Although silicone implants are highly disparaged and have been subject to many studies, silicone is not the only component of the prostheses.
Moreover, I think it important that our nations and their health services be able to work as part of a network and to share information and good practice in this area so that all women patients in Europe might benefit from the same information and the same guarantees and so that impetus might be given to research.
I should think it worthwhile if, for once, Europe were to take its cue from Thailand and perfect measures designed to protect consumers against this advertising and fashion phenomenon and, in particular, to ban very young women from receiving implants.
For the well-being of patients and the medical follow-up they require, I would therefore defend the idea of setting up national and European registers and of centralising data and other information in this field.
There is a particular need to ensure that people under 18 years of age may only have implants as a medical necessity, and their guardians should also be fully informed of the implications of such operations.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I fail to understand how the voting list was put together, but what has happened is that the second part of Amendment No 49 was exactly the same as the second part of Amendment No 15.
I do not understand why the majority has rejected the second part of Amendment No 49, but this is in fact what they have done.
Consequently, having rejected the second part of Amendment No 49, I fail to see how we can now adopt the second part of Amendment No 15, which is exactly the same.
Mr Ribeiro e Castro, the competent services will look into it.
Enlargement to include ten new countries will take us further away from that objective, and the 2013 deadline will be put back again.
These factors have undermined internal demand and increase risks of deflation in the Eurozone, particularly in Germany.
In this context, I wish to highlight the importance of cooperation between Parliament and the Commission in organising a second Internal Market Forum that will enable citizens and industry, especially SMEs, to express their concerns and to study solutions to the completion of this internal market and to define this issue as a main priority of the 2003 Economic Summit.
I abstained from voting on this report on the Commission report on the Internal Market Strategy.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur when he states that a fully operational internal market for services will increase consumers' options and will enable them to benefit from services provided in other Member States.
Secondly, the change of legal basis causes us concern.
The Commission wants to turn the Forest Focus programme into a regulation complementing the 'Birds' and 'Habitats' directives, something we find unacceptable given the difficulties in applying and funding these two directives.
I voted in favour of this report because of its enormous importance, within the framework of sustainable development, for the adoption of better measures with which to combat the factors contributing to the deterioration of forests in the European Union.
We must adopt fire prevention action, bearing in mind especially that these must be in ... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) Mr President, I support the crucial regulation, and actions to support mothers or future mothers in developing countries, advising on reproductive health, especially through educational and information campaigns.
The speeches given in plenary yesterday by supporters of the report and by opponents of my amendments speak for themselves.
As a supplement to what I have already said, I shall quote a representative of Marie Stopes International, which I did not have time to read out fully yesterday.
The content of this report is ambivalent and could lead to abuses as a result of its implicit promotion of abortion.
Any options or measures decided on in this field, in the context of health, can only be determined by States in accordance with their national laws.
We can only vote in favour of a report that safeguards the incontrovertible principle of the right to life and of respect for the sovereignty of States.
Indeed, this new budget item is not accompanied by new funding.
The necessary money would be taken from the existing budget.
Once such a measure is provided for, it becomes legitimate, whereas stances on this subject are very diverse and, above all, irreconcilable.
If the obvious correlation is borne in mind between poverty and the absence of rights where reproduction and sexuality are concerned, achieving such an objective necessarily entails putting in place a Community tool designed to further policies and actions relating to health and to rights in connection with reproduction and sexuality.
This situation leads women to have recourse to abortions carried out in dangerous conditions, and it causes as many as 78 000 deaths each year. . (FR) It is a good thing that the European Union should help the developing countries take care of their populations' health.
Aid does not, however, mean imposing our European models on countries with different cultures and traditions.
That is why I am in favour of the amendments aimed at developing a policy for receiving and supporting mothers to be who are in distress, with a view to supporting them in choosing to have their babies.
In many developing countries, women fight for their reproductive rights and for control of their sexuality.
For these women, achieving these rights and this control entails being able freely to choose the number of children they have, as well as the gaps between the birth of one child and the next.
By opposing this access to information and a situation in which these rights are granted across the board, the door is closed to the fight against poverty and a delay imposed upon economic development, which is closely linked to improvements in the health and health care of the populations of the developing countries.
A number of colleagues have, however, chosen to deny women these basic rights by proposing another route, that of supporting them in choosing to have their babies.
This is a covert way of denying women's inalienable right to abortion.
The rapporteur stated in an Irish radio programme on 19 November 2002 that through this regulation, EU taxpayers would provide money to fund abortions in the poorest countries and that this was within the legal rights of the EU.
Whilst ensuring women the highest level of medical care, and prevention of maternal mortality and morbidity, Amendment No 53 would have clarified the intentions of Parliament, the Commission and Council.
The report does not comply with the guidelines in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
However, users of hard drugs by injection are a more elusive group that is therefore bound to be condemned to social exclusion, as the report indicates.
In order to do this we need to set aside financial resources and take action by organising campaigns, mainly in schools, in order to raise awareness among young people.
That is why we should welcome the recommendation inviting local groups to help drug addicts to opt for a healthier life.
The report is broadly to be welcomed, and so we voted in favour of it.
It would therefore be welcome if the resolution were to suggest the creation of structures at this level - genuine response measures for extremely serious situations - where necessary and did not lay down vague and diffuse responsibilities for families and communities in this area. - (NL) I welcome the resolution of the European Parliament on combating the drugs problem in Europe.
I am pleased with the members' decision to call on Member States in this report to place prevention and risk limitation at centre stage in our drugs policy.
I have therefore voted in favour of this proposal. . (NL) The debate on drug addiction and its consequences is often hindered, on the one hand, by those who believe that you can simply wipe out drug use through statutory prohibitions, prison cells and the deployment of the police; and on the other, by those who advocate complete freedom, regarding the opportunities to take drugs that arise in practice as an acquired right in which the government should not get involved at all.
I support the rapporteur because she wants to use the experiences of former drugs users and wants to ensure the provision of advice, support, health care and more opportunities to help people get rid of their addictions.
The 1997 report by the United Nations Office on Drug Control and Crime Prevention (ODCCP), stated that 'efforts to reduce world consumption will be less effective if programmes for reducing demand are undermined by calls for drugs to be legalised'.
In other words, the Council recommendation represents a capitulation on the issue of fully rehabilitating and curing drug addicts.
For our part, we are using this opportunity to protest against the imperialist war against Iraq.
The presence of uranium 236 in blood tests of soldiers who served in Kosovo - as one newspaper has claimed - could indicate that this is the case.
Over recent years cosmetic surgery has made considerable progress and the techniques used have reached a more than satisfactory level of safety.
While we need to protect patients, we also need to preserve the service providers by placing a degree of trust in them. - (NL) I understand the need to provide better information and more quality guarantees for breast implants.
We should not regulate 'self-esteem and other conceptual alternatives to breast implants' in Europe.
I believe that women are perfectly capable of taking decisions for themselves and can be advised very well by their doctors, and that a ban on advertising is therefore not necessary.
On a previous occasion, in 2001, I expressed the serious doubts I had about the sense and point of building up national and European registers of people who had requested and obtained breast implants.
It is essential to foster the values of self-esteem and tolerance as alternatives to breast implants, something that is done in items 15 and 16.
The next item is the Commission statement on the crisis in the steel sector and the measures to be taken at Community level.
Mr President, the European steel industry has been through a difficult period over the last 20 years.
In order to maintain their global position, however, companies need to engage in a continuous process of adapting their structures.
The industry is still striving for efficiency, but even if remaining overcapacities are closed down, from an industrial point of view, we cannot talk about a real crisis on the scale that we had in the 1980s, but rather about a social crisis due to new closures.
The Commission is acutely aware of the need for citizens and workers to feel secure in taxing times.
In some cases, these operations are prepared well in advance, fully involving workers' representatives, with due care being taken to search for less damaging solutions, and seeking actively and in good time to prepare workers likely to be affected to face the challenge of sudden unemployment.
The way in which Metaleurop conducted the closure of the Pas de Calais plant is the worst possible example of disregard for the interests, the concerns and the rights of workers, as well as for the health and safety of the surrounding population.
The consultation process encompasses: the economic reasoning behind the projected closures; taking independent expert advice on the whole affair; taking all possible measures to avoid the closures or limit their social impact; and seeking to clean the local environment and re-industrialise the closed plants.
It is also useful to recall in this context other initiatives of the Commission relating to corporate social responsibility, social dialogue and the European Monitoring Centre on Change.
The Commission would like to state clearly that, above all, we share your regret and concern on the possible social consequences for those who may be affected.
I must admit that I was very surprised to hear the Commissioner condemning the attitude of a company that everyone considers to have behaved in a particularly scandalous manner, Metaleurop, and at the same time praising another company which has been headline news in recent months, Arcelor.
The decision taken by Arcelor to gradually close its hot-working steel facilities on its continental sites was, of course, received with concern in the regions concerned.
The resolution that we have all put forward together has the prime objective of ensuring that Arcelor keeps its commitments.
There is all the more reason for Arcelor to keep its commitments given that you said - and this is the important element in your statement - that the steel industry was not in crisis, that companies in general were competitive, and that there is therefore no reason for Arcelor to want to go back on the commitments that it made unless it is for purely financial reasons.
In other words, is the Commission aware that it still has a responsibility under Article 3 of the ECSC Treaty, or has it forgotten that article?
Along the same lines, is the Commission prepared, as far as company law is concerned, to invoke Article 5 of the ECSC Treaty, according to which the Commission has the task of ensuring that social activity continues as long as general production at European level is not threatened?
Indeed, one can only note and condemn the increasing number of companies being restructured, along with restructuring programmes and redundancies with disastrous consequences, of course for employees, but also for entire regions that are devastated as a result.
Many sectors are affected by this, particularly the steel industry.
It is true that the majority of companies wear out this argument that restructuring and closures of sites are necessary in order to deal with international competition.
Their aim is to achieve maximum profitability, without worrying about the social or environmental consequences.
It is true that even though that is about the metal industry and not specifically steel, it is a useful example: this very polluting company is going to shed thousands of jobs without taking any social or environmental responsibility.
Nevertheless, I think that new measures need to be taken to inform unions and works committees about the aid received.
If that is not done, Commissioner, we will not move towards a Union of solidarity but towards a Union of terrible opposition between employees and between citizens.
The Commission and the Member States need to adopt a more pro-active strategy in response to industrial restructuring and its social impact.
I therefore think that the Union should force the companies concerned to do more to take into account the alternative proposals from unions before making any decisions.
It goes back 25 years.
You are aware that, 20 years ago, entire regions were abandoned and employees stripped of their jobs in the name of modernisation and productivity.
Mr President, Commissioner, the steel crisis and, in particular, the recent decisions made by Arcelor, are not a Belgian regional problem, but a European problem.
That is not the only thing, however, that demonstrates that the type of problem being raised here is not only regional but also European.
The problem is not only confined to the steel industry.
As a result, if we respond to this with relatively weak declarations, we are confirming our inability, on the one hand, to ensure that basic social law is respected and, on the other hand to control or even prevent the use of public funds to create cheap jobs to the detriment of quality jobs that therefore have to be more expensive.
However, currently it appears that the resources that we have are, in my opinion, insufficient.
This debate is, therefore indeed about the social future, but also about the economic future of Europe.
National governments and parliaments, but also the Commission, therefore urgently need to equip themselves with effective tools to manage both an economic Europe and a social Europe.
Enforcing the right to legislate in order to better manage the future is not a question of ability but a question of political will.
A resolution on the steel industry will be adopted soon.
We are all suffering now, as we have said, as the result of the lack of a regulatory framework allowing us to deal with the ultraliberal actions of the multinationals.
We can no longer tolerate decisions that are based on purely financial considerations and which can wipe a region from the world map in one fell swoop, without considering the families that live there, the workers that have built it and the children that will grow up there.
Commissioner, you presented Arcelor as the good student of Europe.
I ask the Council and the Commission to finally prepare a regulatory framework that will enable us to prevent the all-powerful financial considerations from shattering the alliance between Europe and its citizens.
We have funds in Europe that we can work with.
Finally I would like to draw your attention to the European social funds.
The question that we will be faced with in the future is whether we can work together to give Europe a different aspect from that currently presented to the world by the USA.
The group, which is the most powerful group in the world steel industry and is collapsing under its profits, coldly announces that it is going to close a total of six smelting works in Belgium, Germany and France, throwing out thousands of workers, condemning their families to poverty and devastating entire regions.
The fact that this can happen, without even inciting a reaction from the political authorities aside from a few hypocritical groans, shows the extent to which the workers are unable to count on the authorities to defend them.
We are told that periodical restructuring is inevitable in industry, but why is it always the workers that have to pay for that restructuring, and never the shareholders or the owners of the companies?
At the moment in France the airline Air Lib is also shutting up shop and making 3 200 people redundant.
Air Lib is not a steel company, but behind it, two years ago, was the same financial group, Marine Wendel, which made a fortune through the sweat and pain of generations of workers, steel workers, if not their blood.
This is why I say to the workers, both in the steel and air transport industries, and those going through the mass redundancies all over Europe, that we need to fight to establish a balance of power enabling workers to impose a ban on mass redundancies, on pain of expropriation.
We should not, however, bury our heads in the sand, because here we are facing a perfect example of deregulated globalisation.
Commissioner Lamy therefore told us, before this House, that the European Union intended to defend its industries and jobs by taking all available measures.
Around the same time, he visited the Sidmar de Gand factory, a production unit belonging to the Arcelor group, the same company that is now throwing thousands of workers out into the streets and plunging a region into despair.
Furthermore, these companies receive subsidies and sometimes even privileges.
The legislative arsenal of the European Union on social issues is clearly insufficient and there are still European political leaders, in particular within the Convention, who say that the European Union must not intervene in social policy matters.
Arcelor today, Renault Vilvoorde yesterday, these are the examples that have led us to fight, here in this House, to say that Europe must be a social Europe or nothing at all.
What I would like to say, Mr President, in conclusion, is that if the European integration process was conceived with the ECSC, whose obligations have already been recalled, if we do not want to tell the citizens once again that this Europe is not for them and that it is a Europe of money, I think we should develop a specific intervention model adapted to the steel problem.
Let me underline again the basic principle according to which decisions on corporate restructuring are a prerogative of management, but also its responsibility.
Before I do that I would like to pick up one or two points that were made.
There were references, for instance, to the European Coal and Steel Community, and I was asked whether Articles 3 and 5 have any application in these circumstances.
It appears to be the case that Articles 3 and 5 no longer have application because the ECSC is no longer operational.
My colleague, Commissioner Lamy, is forcefully pursuing that particular issue.
Another issue that was raised in the debate was the issue surrounding the issue of enlargement.
For the steel industry, as well as for many other industries, enlargement is above all a window of opportunity for them to develop their businesses in the interests of themselves and in the interests of their workers.
There are issues related to compliance with standards in the new Member States, notably in the social and environmental fields.
Those issues are, however, being dealt with through technical assistance to help their industries to adapt, as well as through the assurance that those new members will have to comply with the relevant Community law from the date of accession.
The main goal in the long term must be the reconversion of local industrial activities.
This will have a much greater impact on the regions than direct social aid to the employees, although some transitional measures can be considered.
We should recall that aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty remains prohibited, in principle, for the iron and steel industry, as does any investment aid.
Similarly, the Commission regulation on state aid for employment contains provisions stipulating that such aid can only be granted if the employment is maintained for a minimum period of three years, or two years in the case of SMEs.
Possible acquisition by Arcelor of certain factories in Poland or other third countries would be the subject of a survey by the Commission, pursuant to Regulation 4064/89 on the control of concentrations between undertakings.
In its evaluation the Commission comes to a conclusion only about the competitive aspects without intervening in the industrial policy of a private company.
To conclude this debate, I have received four motions for resolutions.
Mr Ribeiro e Castro has the floor for a point of order.
Mr Ribeiro e Castro, I fully understand the request made by the chair of your delegation.
As this request did not reach us within the allotted period, the vote will therefore take place immediately after the debate, in accordance with the provisions of our Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, both Kazakhstan and Tajikistan are authoritarian regimes or dictatorships where fundamental freedoms are flouted, political activity suppressed and where torture still takes place.
We naturally support the calls to respect democratic rights and freedoms in these two countries and we condemn the executions that continue to take place in Tajikistan.
The second important point is that it is, in fact, becoming increasingly difficult to form political parties and to set up social organisations there, as ever more stringent requirements are being imposed and what is gradually happening is that these organisations are only being allowed to exist if they can demonstrate that they really have tens of thousands of members in each region.
That point in particular causes us concern, but it also makes us more responsible for the implementation of the agreements and for Kazakhstan's continued development.
For this reason I am asking the Commission and the Council very explicitly to pay attention to the situation on the basis of these cooperation agreements and to contact President Nazarbayev and the government in Kazakhstan with a view to finding a way, as a true friend, of improving the development of democracy and of paying more attention to human rights.
True friends tell each other the truth; we must be able to do this in this relationship.
I hope that the Commission and the Council do in fact intend to play this role on the basis of the treaties we have signed.
Although it is true that certain regions of the world are attracting the attention of the European Union, this vast, fragile sub-continent, currently in transition, torn between Russia and China, all too often escapes our vigilance and our requirements.
These countries are far from the eyes of the Union, and therefore far from its control.
Although there are still reservations regarding the European Union's vigilance with regard to these Central Asian republics over the past few years, the Union must now show genuine firmness in order to promote its principles and its values in this region of the world.
Today, already, the Union is concentrating a key economic and industrial force in Europe and the world.
We clearly have ways of putting pressure on Kazakhstan, on the countries in this region of Central Asia which, at a time of globalisation and the enlargement of the European Union, are no longer, and must no longer, be outside our horizons.
We have the power, and it is our duty, to bring the current situation in Kazakhstan into conformity with the international treaties and agreements and in particular with the partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and Kazakhstan.
One day later, on Sunday 2 February, a police officer accompanied by a colleague and two drunken 'witnesses' disrupted the morning service of the non-registered Baptist community in Leninogorsk.
I call on the Commission and the Council to bring these abuses to the attention of the authorities in Kazakhstan and to urge them to improve the position of Christian minorities in society in that country.
The case of Irina Petrushova with Respublika weekly, sentenced to one and a half years in jail is another example.
A new law on the creation of opposition parties requires 50 000 citizens' signatures before they can be registered.
We still have problems with regard to legislation, particularly the fact that the crime and the practice of torture still exist and there is no clear definition of what torture is.
Clearly, we want a dialogue in Kazakhstan between the government and the opposition; we want them to respect international law.
In the meantime, we ask the Council and Commission to raise these questions firmly at the next meeting between the Council, the Commission and the government of Kazakhstan.
But at least it is the first ombudsman system in a CIS country.
We need to know more about the 19 January presidential law that was brought in on political parties.
Mr President, over the past years, democratic conditions in most of the countries of Central Asia have deteriorated.
However, the Commission understands why the focus of Parliament's attention in this debate is on Kazakhstan.
A law on the humanisation of prison conditions has been passed and a serious effort seems to be being made to implement prison reform.
Kazakhstan, as well as other countries in Central Asia, has also established the post of Human Rights Ombudsman, although much remains to be done in terms of strengthening their mandates and facilities.
The Commission notes that Parliament's resolution focuses on Kazakhstan only.
The Commission believes, however, that the matter of human rights in Kazakhstan is to be viewed in its regional context.
We believe that the EU can continue to have an impact on democratic conditions in these countries through critical but constructive dialogue under the Partnership and Cooperation Agreements.
Opposition parties do not exist in these two countries.
Through constructive dialogue and targeted support, the EU can still make a difference in these countries.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at the end of the debate.
Mr President, for some time now, the European Parliament has been monitoring the situation in Venezuela with interest.
Today, the country is undergoing a political, economic and social crisis that has produced many victims, as did similar crises this weekend in Colombia and, in the past, in Bolivia.
The European Commission must, however, help us in this task and, of course, the measures taken the day before yesterday by the Commission to limit and modify the system of generalised Community preferences are not going to be of much help in handling the situations being experienced by Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela.
Mr President, the political situation in Venezuela warrants the greatest possible interest and attention from the European Union.
My group condemns the instigators of the coup of 11 April who irresponsibly attempted to overthrow the country's democratic, legitimate constitutional institutions.
Respecting the political experiment in Venezuela means respecting the dignity of a people that has decided to take its fate into its own hands.
That is another reason why our group calls for the motion for a resolution we have drawn up together to be adopted without amendments.
Mr President, Commissioner, Venezuela is an Andean Pact country which has a broad democratic tradition, has demonstrated generosity throughout its recent history and has experienced the advent of many new citizens in search of a better life who have made efforts to contribute to a prosperous Venezuela.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to begin by thanking the previous speaker for his words because this is actually a point that we consider to be extremely important in this context.
The ties that bind us to the Venezuelan people and State run very deep.
We therefore support this resolution, but would like to make some clarifications, not only on the amendment we tabled, but also on a split vote that we requested.
Our expression of respect for the Constitution, as included in the text, could be used improperly in Venezuela by one of the parties involved.
We are, of course, in favour of respect for the democratic Constitution, but we know that with regard to the issues concerning Venezuela currently being discussed, this is an argument that President Chavez has used improperly to block or to attempt to block the course of democracy in his country.
The solution took the form of a regime that, to most intents and purposes, was plebiscitary in character, with a new constitution and with a president possessing considerable popular support but in which the democratic institutions did not operate properly.
What would be required would be for the European Parliament, together with other Community institutions, to intervene to help create a climate of understanding between the Venezuelans themselves.
This Parliament already has experience of intervening in crises, for example in Central America - more specifically, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Guatemala - as well as in South America: more specifically, Chile and Paraguay.
Mr President, the situation in Venezuela continues to give great cause for concern, at precisely the time when the election of President Lula da Silva and President Gutiérrez is raising great hopes of democratisation and recovery for the continent.
Moreover, we would point out that the same President Chavez who is now under threat and was in danger from a coup d'Etat in April 2002 had himself attempted a coup d'Etat.
It is clear, therefore, that these types of methods have, in any case, not yet been completely eradicated from the continent.
This shows the particular solidarity that they feel, but I actually also want to make it clear that this problem of Venezuela concerns all Europeans to at least some degree.
Two countries in the European Union, namely Spain and Portugal, belong to this group and have a special responsibility here, which they are responding to magnificently.
I should like to thank them for this and say that the European Union hopes that Spain and Portugal really can play a pivotal and positive role here, and I am convinced that they will do so.
The various different political forces need to be brought together around one table, because only by strengthening the rule of law, only by strengthening the institutions, but also only by strengthening pluralism in this troubled country will we once again be able to avoid a serious crisis there, and the lasting damage that this would do to that country and the region as a whole.
Mr President, the worst thing about this situation in Venezuela is that the two sides have stopped talking to each other.
At this stage I should therefore like to draw your attention to the fact that an initiative has emerged from the Latin American Parliament and the European Parliament to form a joint group, to establish a dialogue with Members of Parliament on both sides in Venezuela and in this way also to support the efforts of the Group of Friends of Venezuela to bring the two sides together.
But as I see it the only way out seems to be for the people to decide, and no one else!
The Commission has welcomed the creation of the Group of Friends of Venezuela (Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Portugal, Spain and the US) and hopes that it will contribute to the OAS efforts to find a solution to the current crisis.
The Commission considers that former US President Carter's proposal - suggesting, alternatively, a constitutional amendment that would lead to early elections or revocatory referendum on President Chávez's rule on 19 August - is a good basis for the negotiations between both parties.
The Commission has approved a project to assist the OAS in its efforts to implement possible agreements reached between the parties of the OAS mediated dialogue.
The debate is closed.
I also speak on behalf of the oppressed people of Zimbabwe who are crying out for justice.
The situation in Zimbabwe has gone from bad to worse, with enforced starvation and continuing human rights abuses and political oppression.
I call upon Members to support the resolution without amendment.
When Belgium grants a visa to nationals of a country, when the delegates concerned are present, when others then have the right to take part in a meeting and when we unilaterally and dictatorially refuse them access to this building, we deprive ourselves of the possibility for Africans and Europeans to adopt together a resolution that condemns what is happening in Zimbabwe.
What is not responsible is for you to say that France has no right to prohibit a man from taking part in a Franco-African summit in which he is involved, precisely because that would enable us to tell him what we think face to face.
If we want lasting peace in this region, if we do not want discrimination and violence against the poorest to become even more widespread in these countries, we need to involve the regional organisations, and in particular the African Union, in our action.
What you are doing here is forgetting the colonial past of a country in which there is certainly violence today against white farmers, but which is currently also paying the cost, it should be recognised, of that colonial past where, for many years, the vast majority of the black population did not have access to land, whereas today the country is the subject of agricultural reform.
Parliament has consistently called for a widening and rigorous enforcement of sanctions, as well as other measures, to make international action against the Mugabe regime more effective.
Sanctions against the Mugabe regime should continue without interruption and without exemption.
The charges against the opposition, against Morgan Tsvangirai, are spurious and unsubstantiated.
We praise the courage of the Zimbabwean cricketers - Andy Flower and Henry Olonga - for wearing those black armbands to symbolise the lack of democracy and human rights in Zimbabwe.
My group resolutely argues in favour of maintaining the dialogue, and of promulgating sanctions that can be imposed, but not of invoking sanctions that rule out any dialogue.
It follows, though, that you should not expect heroism from countries whose economies are so strongly intermeshed with that of Zimbabwe, which is bigger than that of our own European Member States, who do not even have the courage to get together to ask a UN representative to investigate the human rights situation in situ in Zimbabwe.
We will therefore be voting against several of these paragraphs, and we will also not be able to approve the resolution in its entirety, but we will be continuing to fight the same fight in favour of human rights and against this pernicious regime.
The scandalous human rights situation, political repression, the economic decline and starvation ultimately count for less than French interests in Africa.
Fortunately our Parliament is consistent, or at least most of the parties are, and we must keep it that way.
It is most unfortunate that South Africa and Nigeria seem to be standing up for Mugabe and want the Commonwealth's sanctions to be lifted.
It is time Member States put their own commercial agendas aside and pulled out all the stops for human rights on a European level.
The situation in Zimbabwe once again calls for an urgent debate.
Morgan Tsvangirai, Welshman Ncube and Renson Gasela were recently accused of high treason for spurious reasons.
The excuse that the summit starts on 19 February while the sanctions were originally in force until 18 February sounds lame.
On the basis of paragraph 12, therefore, I vigorously condemn this unilateral element in French policy.
I call on the Council and Commission to unanimously implement the renewed sanctions in full without tolerating any opt outs.
Mr President, I might inform you that purely coincidentally the German Parliament is also debating Zimbabwe at this very hour today and I believe that, from a political point of view, it is important for us not only to discuss this issue here in the European Parliament - or perhaps also, for historical reasons, in London - but also in other parliaments in Europe, so as to raise public awareness of the situation.
The use of democratic means has, unfortunately, not enabled the people there to rid themselves of a potentate who bears more responsibility than anyone else for the decline of the country in economic, social and political terms and also in respect of human rights.
The only people that are hit by them are those who in any case have the money to travel.
Unfortunately, in previous decades for many European countries one single criterion has been decisive in determining whether they have got involved in African politics: whether it served their own economic interests.
The result is clear to see in countries such as Côte d'Ivoire and Congo.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time I have spoken about the enduring and unhappy saga of Zimbabwe and its dictator Robert Mugabe.
It is too early to tell whether the outcome of this policy will be positive or negative, but whatever the outcome is, we all know what has been going on.
We also know that these policies of sanctions always require a process to be in place.
The Commission closely follows the human rights situation in Zimbabwe.
In view of the gravity of the situation, the Commission proposed to the Council the extension of the measures against Zimbabwe under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, which were adopted in February last year.
These measures redirect funds to social sectors and to areas which benefit directly the population.
The Commission agrees with the Presidency's proposal for a new common position amending and extending sanctions, such as the visa ban and freeze of assets against Zimbabwe, for the same additional period of one year.
The Commission is informed that approximately EUR 770 000 have been frozen in accounts in Member States or their dependent territories in accordance with the Council's position.
Community assistance continues to contribute to projects which directly support the population in the field of democratisation, respect for human rights and the rule of law; the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights includes Zimbabwe as a focal country.
The Commission is particularly concerned about the food crisis in Zimbabwe and has been very actively involved in responding to the situation.
Between April and December 2002, we committed about EUR 80 million in emergency aid and humanitarian aid.
The Commission believes that all avenues for dialogue should be explored to improve the situation in Zimbabwe.
We will support any peer pressure that the international community, and the heads of state in Africa in particular, may put on the Zimbabwean Government in the area of respect for the essential elements of the Cotonou Agreement: human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
The next item is the vote on the crisis in the steel sector Mr President, I welcome the vote on the resolution and would like to emphasise two points.
The compromise text, which is limited to a few protectionist measures and additional regulations which employers will not observe in any case, does not propose any practical measures for the protection of workers.
I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned We Swedish Social Democrats chose to vote against quite a number of the amendments in the report concerning monitoring of forests and environmental interactions in the Community (Forest Focus).
We are very hesitant about giving Community policy a larger role when it comes to forests.
What is more, fire prevention measures are already a part of the EU Regulation on Rural Development.
The issue is where and how the European Union has a legal right to act.
In this respect, the report proposes an outrageous abuse of power and competence by the Union.
Together with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I had voted in favour of Amendment No 53, which was however rejected, with 181 votes in favour, 264 votes against and 11 abstentions.
We Swedish Social Democrats chose to vote against the report on the prevention and reduction of risks associated with drug dependence, and this in view of the fact that Parliament voted through a number of amendments directly or indirectly entailing social acceptance of drug dependence.
