Community Strategy to reduce CO2 emissions from passenger cars and light-commercial vehicles (debate) The next item is the report by Chris Davies, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the Community strategy to reduce CO2 emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles.
Average emissions from new cars stand now at a little less than 160 g of CO2 per kilometre - a long way adrift from the target of 140 g by 2008.
The Commission has announced that it wants to stick to the medium-term target setting that voluntary agreement of 120 g by 2012, but says that 10 g of this will now be achieved by complementary measures.
But, given where we are, are the target and the timetable set by the Commission still appropriate, because, of late, the reduction in average emissions has been hardly more than 1 g a year?
The Commission suggests that this should instantly be transformed into 5 g a year.
Equally important is the need to set long-term targets to reduce emissions to below 100 g by 2020.
The manufacturers always claim that they respond to consumer demand, but I do not believe this.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Madam President, road transport, along with the other sectors of the economy, must contribute to efforts to reduce CO2 emissions in a bid to achieve the Kyoto Protocol targets and our future commitments for 2020 and beyond.
Let me also remind you that there was a voluntary agreement on achieving a reduction of CO2 emissions to 140 gr per km by 2008.
As a natural consequence, the European Commission carried out a re-examination last February of the Community strategy for the reduction of CO2 emissions by new cars, with mandatory legislation based on an integrated approach through which the European aim of reducing emissions by new cars to 120 gr.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection. - (DE) Madam President, I acknowledge the car as a universal means of transport, and I acknowledge the contribution of the car industry to the prosperity of Europeans.
I am happy, on behalf of my Group, to endorse the target of 125 g by 2015 that Mr Davies has outlined.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Commissioner, this is a matter of urgency, as we all know.
The first thing to note is that not all cars and not all manufacturers achieved the same effectiveness under the voluntary agreement.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Madam President, when it comes to discussing CO2 emissions, we are very quick to talk about cars, simply because the way to a person's guilty conscience is through their car.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, I think this is the right moment to inform the outside world about what this Callanan-Davies deal is.
It is delaying action from 2012 to 2015.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Mr President, in the past few months my fellow Members and I have met a great many representatives of the motor industry.
I find complaints that it all has to be done so quickly quite hypocritical, because the industry has known for years that these measures had to come.
Ideas about complementary measures and other things: what we are talking about here is a complete change in the way that people approach transport and motoring.
I am sorry to overrun, Madam President, but you will admit I was interrupted by some colleagues in an entirely unnecessary way. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, this report, which Chris Davies has drawn up on the initiative of the Environment Committee, should signal to the Commission that the European Parliament is serious about reducing CO2 emissions.
Firstly, from 1 January 2012, new cars in Europe must not emit more than 120g of CO2 per kilometre.
Secondly, future legislation must spell out clearly that the CO2 emissions of all cars must be reduced.
It takes more than eight and a half years to renew the entire fleet of passenger cars on Europe's roads, and this must be in the back of our minds when we adopt new legislation.
The answer leaves no room for doubt: we need a paradigm shift.
In my opinion, we can and must vote in favour of this report, and at the same time we must compel vehicle manufacturers to produce smaller and more efficient engines.
The European Union must commit itself unequivocally to technological change in the transport sector too.
I do not think industry can have been very surprised that the Commission talked about 2012 as a date for the targets or about the level of the target, because, of course, we know these have been mooted for many years.
The car industry needs clear, long-term targets for reducing the level of CO2 emissions in exhaust gases and I support Mr Davies' approach whereby long-term limits will be established for CO2 emissions, for example for 2020 or 2025.
When discussing the whole issue of the Community's strategy to reduce CO2 emissions, it should be remembered that, in Europe alone, two million people are employed in the automotive industry, and another 10 million jobs are linked to this sector.
The Community's strategy to reduce CO2 emissions will be successful only if it is thought through properly and provides sufficient time for producers to develop appropriate technological solutions.
It would seem therefore that the best date for the introduction of the regulations would be 2015, also because the Euro 6 Regulation will come into force in that year.
Research studies have indicated that to achieve the objective of 120g/km just through improvements in automotive technology will result in an increase of around EUR 3 600 in the average price of a car, which may result in many brands of cars becoming less accessible to the average EU citizen.
Legislation must be aimed at achieving an average emission of 120g in 2012, not in 2015.
Secondly, I appeal to the Commissioner, the Commission and Europe to conduct an assessment of the 2009 multiannual budget in order to invest even more research funding in new research technologies for low CO2 cars.
I know you recently announced an ambitious programme to invest EUR 500 million in hydrogen technology.
It is therefore important that we approve the compromise proposals by Mr Callanan on marketing and advertising, because they are transparent.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 24 October.
