Although there have been a number of challenges, there has also been immense political will on the part of the European Parliament, the Member States and the Commission to reach agreement on the relevant issues.
Parliament and its Members have specialist knowledge of democracy and human rights issues, which has been a help in endeavours to attain a good outcome.
The Regulation on a new human rights instrument to apply worldwide has been drafted to a very tight schedule.
The Council, for its part, has unanimously approved the compromise text to serve as a mandate for the Presidency to conduct talks with Parliament with a view to finding a solution.
The instruments have been drafted in such a way that they form a whole that is as viable as possible.
The main idea behind establishing the instrument has been that it will make possible support for the work of civil society players in particular, and permit support in situations where that takes place without the specific consent of the government of the country concerned.
Moreover, the draft Regulation will also allow for the eligibility of other players in special circumstances.
I believe that we have also now succeeded in finding a way of citing this principle in a more precise and clear manner, given our obligations under the Treaty on European Union and international agreements and conventions.
The Council, for its own part, therefore, is ready to demonstrate even greater flexibility in order to find a solution before the year is out.
There will be nowhere near enough resources available under this instrument for general party support for all based on the same criteria, such as there is in many countries in Europe.
This financing instrument truly is a massive keystone in this comprehensive reform of the Community's system of overseas aid, and it gives me great satisfaction to see that you have succeeded in coming up, within a relatively short period, with a common draft regulation on human rights and democracy.
Following the Council Presidency's explanation just now of how it has conducted lengthy negotiations in this field, I would like to say that we regard the compromise proposal it has put together in the course of these as overall doing justice to the expectations made of this new financing instrument, and I would also like to emphasise that it certainly reflects many proposals from your House that the Commission unreservedly endorses, dealing as it does not only with the process of democratic reform, but also with the overall protection of human rights, and putting a greater emphasis on support and protection for human rights advocates, without, however, neglecting the victims of torture and abuse.
These requests are also found in the document drawn up by the Council, which I would like to thank for its work and for the flexibility demonstrated during the months of negotiation.
It is also very important to the Committee on Budgets that funds be made available from other significant instruments, for development, but also for partnerships with neighbouring countries and pre-accession.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. - (ES) Mr President, we in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality welcome all of Parliament's efforts to ensure that this specific instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights could be debated today in this House.
We would see the approval of this Regulation at first reading, so that it can enter into operation in 2007, as good news, particularly in view of the fact that 2007 has officially been designated European Year of Equal Opportunities for All.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, it is good that we should be given this instrument.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, this instrument will be the means whereby the European Union will contribute to democracy and human rights worldwide.
Without, of course, wishing to diminish the importance of human rights per se - quite the reverse, in fact - I would at the same time like to stress the crucial importance of political parties in every democratisation process.
In conclusion, the effectiveness of this instrument will depend on its being regularly evaluated and on its revision, a process in which Parliament must play its full part, because I believe that Europe, armed with its values, is fighting here for a world free from fear.
