Address by the President of Parliament Ladies and gentlemen, having welcomed our fellow Members from Bulgaria and Romania, I would like to take a few minutes to assess the work that we have done during the first half of this term in office.
The duties carried out by the European Parliament are now better known and more recognised.
We have played an important role in terms of easing East-West tensions, and that has made it possible for us to reach important agreements, the Services Directive being an excellent example.
More programming, more selectiveness, more political orientation for debates, quicker position-taking in response to international events and in response to the Commission's decisions and proposals, more efficiency in our delegations in third countries, more dynamic work by our parliamentary committees.
The European Parliament thus demonstrated that hearings with Commissioners were not mere formalities, that Parliament is not a paper tiger and that it is capable of exercising its powers in a manner that is both demanding and responsible, without causing any crisis.
But in my final speech as President, I am going to demand that Parliament be closely involved in the search for a solution, and I am delighted that the German Presidency has informed me that it will ask the European Parliament to appoint a representative for this task, and it is going to ask the same of the Commission and the Member States.
In India, in China, in many Latin American countries, in Africa, in all of the candidate countries and in almost all of the Mediterranean countries.
Yes, we can be satisfied with our role in the world.
We can also be satisfied with the role played by the Sakharov Prize, which does so much to encourage people fighting for freedom, as Alexander Milinkievitch told us in December, or as Leyla Zana reminded me, when she told me in Istanbul how important it has been for her and her cause to be able to come to Strasbourg and to see her picture on television screens across the entire world, and the extent to which we have helped her in her struggle.
According to Eurostat, 56% were in favour of globalisation in 2003.
Together we can do more, and we must therefore strengthen our Union in the quest for a common energy policy, particularly when we have had such a wake-up call in relation to gas from the East.
To cite just two examples, the Services Directive and the REACH regulation on chemicals are two important cases in which Parliament has played a key role.
During your term of office, Mr President, you have shown that Parliament is capable of functioning effectively with representatives of the 25 Member States, now 27, including the Bulgarian and Romanian observers.
Mr President - my dear Mr Borrell - you have been a President for all of us.
The PPE-DE Group placed its trust in you and you did not let us down.
Today is a good day, for, from now on, our Bulgarian and Romanian friends are officially of our number, and that is also a success for our group. (Applause) There are two reasons, as I see it, why it matters that I should say a word of thanks to you, Mr Borrell.
We in the Socialist Group voted for you; many Members of this House put their trust in you, new and unknown as you were, and I think I can speak for everyone when I say, today, that you justified that trust in every way.
Many warm thanks, then, from me, on behalf of my group, for all that you have done for this House. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I have to be honest: you were not my group's candidate in 2004.
We had proposed Bronisław Geremek, one of the fathers and architects of today's Europe of 27 Member States and a symbol of Europe's reunification.
However, it has not been limited to the European Union: you have been an active President of this House beyond our shores in your promotion of the Euromed Parliamentary Assembly, in your facilitation of the establishment of a Euro-Latin American Parliamentary Assembly and beyond.
The sight here today of two new Commissioners, Leonard Orban and Meglena Kuneva - at work since 1 January - warms our hearts, and the presence in the Council of Ministers of two new countries strengthens our Union as it prepares for an important birthday.
We will no doubt hear far more from him in the years to come. (Applause) thar ceann an Ghrúpa UEN. - A Uachtaráin, is mór an onóir dom labhairt i mo theanga dhúchais anseo tráthnóna inniu.
I thank you, Mr President, and your services in particular and also the patience and resilience of Mr Priestley and his staff in making this happen on this occasion.
I welcome my new colleagues as Members of Parliament, as equal, participating, voting and guiding Members of the European Parliament in 2007.
Mr President, I should like to thank you on behalf of my group, too.
Once again, I wish to thank you for your kindness and for your friendship and, if I may say so, also for your affability as a person.
Welcome to the waste of 22 working days, 50 extra hotel bills, EUR 250 million spent on the travelling circus between Strasbourg, Luxembourg and Brussels, and welcome to the 5 500 votes in a year where it is difficult to know exactly what you voted for.
The EU has more than 90 000 pages of law - red tape - which you can never amend as an elected Member of this Parliament.
Of 480 million citizens, only the 27 non-elected Commissioners are allowed to put forward proposals for a new law or an amendment to an existing law.
In 2005, we decided more than 3000 different rules in the EU, applying codecision in only 57 cases.
It is a secret vote tomorrow; use your first vote at 10 o'clock to show your support for one seat and a fair chair. (ES) Mr Borrell, tomorrow you will have the opportunity to change this system.
With this group, we shall have greater visibility, resources and powers in this institution and we shall be the mouthpiece for the tens of millions of Europeans, 23 million according to my calculations, who would be without representation here in Parliament were it not for our group.
Rest assured, ladies and gentlemen, rest assured, Mr President, we will be Parliament's bad conscience, its eagle-eyed critic, the unstinting defender of the European peoples and nations that made our continent and our civilisation great. (Applause from the speaker's group) - (SK) We have half of our term in office behind us, and for many of us this has been our first experience in high-level European politics.
We have set ourselves the great goal of becoming a global leader and prevailing in competition with major world players such as the USA and China.
President Borrell, these are the last days of your presidency in the European Parliament.
This is a significant day for the European Union, not only due to the changing of the guard in key positions in the European Parliament, but also as the day on which the aims of the Treaty of Nice were fulfilled with the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union.
During this legislature, you have played a significant role in ensuring the smooth integration of the 162 Members from the 10 new Member States into the working procedures of the European Parliament.
Whether it has been your important role in finding an agreement on the financial perspective, as chairman of the temporary committee, your personal initiative to reform the working methods of the European Parliament or your visits to third countries, where you relentlessly pleaded the cause of pluralism and democracy, you have left a crucial fingerprint on this House.
