Statement by the President Ladies and gentlemen, on 24 May, Mr Santiago Oleaga, financial director of the Basque daily newspaper, El Diario Vasco, was killed in San Sebastian by seven bullet shots to the back.
Madam President, I wanted to bring up the issue of a very important meeting which took place yesterday with Justice and Home Affairs ministers, where agreement was made in relation to people' s privacy and their right to privacy, their fundamental rights in access to telecommunications.
There was a discussion on ENFOPOL 98 about re-writing international user requirements, but this is very different.
These decisions will affect us all and will affect everybody outside this Parliament: people will not have the right to privacy, and this is an issue that should be raised right across the board.
It is a fundamental rights issue. (Applause from the Verts/ALE Group) Madam President, I should like to address the same issue.
It appears that, because of a formal error, the actual decision has not yet been taken.
This is why I systematically join this assembly in mourning the victims - all the victims - of our more than a century-old conflict.
Madam President, with your permission I am going to read a paragraph from the editorial published in the Diario Vasco [Basque Daily], the financial director of which, Santiago Oleaga, was murdered by ETA.
The terrorists, however, could not have chosen a more suitable victim to demonstrate the ultimate intention of its action: to silence the messages of those sections of the media in order thereby to silence a whole society to the point that it comes under the control of its abominable tyranny' .
Madam President, I believe that the greatest homage we can pay to Santiago Oleaga is to express our firm rejection of those people who wish to impose that abominable tyranny on us and also express our complete disdain for its spokespeople.
Specific technological R &amp; D programme The next item is the Commission statement on the specific technological research and development programme.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today the Commission approved its proposals for the specific programmes of the Research Framework Programme 2000-2006.
A communication on the possible use of Article 169 of the Treaty establishing the European Community to implement the Framework Programme was also approved.
The specific programmes are the instruments for implementation.
Therefore, the Commission' s proposals contain nothing other than the proposal for the Framework Programme, which must be adopted under the co-decision procedure.
As you are aware, the Commission approved the Framework Programme on 21 February 2001, and this new Framework Programme is specifically designed to help create the European Research Area.
Within this context, we presented the Framework Programme with the determination, on the one hand, to focus efforts on a limited number of priorities where Community action would present the greatest added value.
We are also endeavouring to give some structure to the research that is carried out in Europe, through greater interaction between national activities, in order to create a more consistent European Research Area.
The content of the proposals aims to provide clarification with regard to the scientific and technological content, which is presented in much more detail than in the Framework Programme.
Our aim is, therefore, to launch a political debate on this issue.
On the basis of these initial results, the Commission intends to present a proposal at a later date, on a framework decision on the general conditions for Community support within the context of Article 169 and the possible areas where this could be used.
Madam President, I think that it is true to say that this is the first time that the Commission has presented its proposals for specific programmes so quickly after having presented the proposal for a Framework Programme.
This information also includes accurate and clear details, since the new instruments require this, and we have also planned an information session with the members of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on 5 June 2001.
I believe, therefore, that we will have done everything possible to enable Parliament and the Council to approve, within the specified time frame, the new Framework Programme that is a tool for creating the European Research Area, which, in my opinion, is widely supported by the European Union.
That will, in turn, enable us to adhere to the deadlines, which is very important in my opinion.
I have two explicit questions to put to the Commissioner.
My second question to the Commissioner is of a technical nature: the Commissioner delivered a comprehensive explanation with regard to Article 169 of the Treaty.
Madam President, I would like to say to Mr Van Velzen that the questions were officially sent to us on Monday 28 May 2001 and that we shall do everything possible to answer them before the end of the week.
The Framework Programme represents a considerable amount of money, but it only equates to 5% of public spending on research in Europe.
I do believe that this issue concerning the number of specific programmes should not prevent a dialogue on the content of the priorities.
I believe that the dialogue established with the Commission will enable us to further clarify this determination to create the European Research Area.
It is, to some extent, because of this that there are not as many catalogues of specific programmes in each area.
The main lines were, I believe, defined in accordance with very objective criteria, and I have already had the opportunity to answer, but there has always been a choice.
This is an important subject, which we discuss a great deal, but it is an area in which still too little is done.
As I often say, it is more difficult for a researcher who has qualified in Europe to go to another European country than to go, for instance, to the United States.
You are aware that we have the Marie Curie programme, which is a success, but we would like to double the resources in the proposals allocated to assisting the mobility of young researchers, and also to create grants to attract researchers to Europe, so that Europe once again becomes an attractive option for the best researchers in the world including third countries.
You will see that there are very specific proposals on the issues of mobility in the programme.
I believe, therefore, that we will then have a greater opportunity to adapt the programmes to new problems.
My second question concerns the instruments.
I hope that the Commissioner will talk about the flexibility that is needed and which, in our opinion, seems crucial, between the proposed new instruments and the old instruments that have been retained, at least on a temporary basis.
As for the general budget, in my opinion, I think that although it appears to have a degree of approval from the Council, I believe I am right in saying that the Swedish Presidency proposes to hold an initial informal discussion on the budget at the Research Council on 26 June.
In other words, tasks involving joint monitoring, joint tests and scientific expertise in problems relating to the environment, health, some aspects of the nuclear industry and security in terms of the information society.
I should like to find out from the Commissioner what specific contingency measures he intends to put in place in this connection.
It is a pleasure for me to inform Members of Parliament that we have recently completed this task, which has been acknowledged as unique, of drawing up a list of every single research project in Europe.
It is an interesting project in itself because researchers in many countries were surprised to find out that there were other researchers in other countries undertaking similar research as them.
This document will be available at the meeting of the Council of Research Ministers on 26 June 2001 and it will be published - I have already had the opportunity to hold a press conference to announce this and explain the main points, but I think that this is much more practical.
Some have already been carried out, but you are right to say that issues of prevention do exist.
Health risks related to the environment - you will see in the document - are dealt with on the page on the priority entitled 'Food safety and health risks' .
Similarly, you are quite right to highlight a crucial problem at European level, which is the problem of young researchers.
This means that there is a problem, that there has not been any recruitment or development of scientific research in our Member States.
At the Lisbon Summit, it was acknowledged that 25 to 50% of the economy is related to knowledge and therefore to research and innovation.
The Framework Programme must play a part in increasing awareness of this issue.
Madam President, Commissioner Busquin, you are calling for greater integration of research activities at European level on the one hand and at national, regional and international level on the other.
I can tell him that, with regard to the large research centres in Europe which do not fall within the competence of the European Union, like CERN in Geneva and the European Molecular Biology Laboratory in Heidelberg, we have made initial contacts with them.
They came here to Brussels to meet independently with the Commission, but in doing so created a critical mass.
I would like to give the same example of INSERM in France that you give of Heidelberg and of the Cancer Research Centre, as you know that there is an INSERM team from France working at Heidelberg with the German Cancer Research Centre.
However, your idea of showing this networking in a practical manner is an excellent idea, which perhaps, if I may, I can use to show what already exists and that we must build on this.
The Commission' s role will be to enable everyone to take part, depending on their interests in a number of areas, but it is obvious that there are initiatives that have been taken.
The dynamic potential of the European Research Area is already being felt in some national institutions that have taken this dynamic spirit to heart.
I wonder if he would listen in particular to those people who are working in the field of public health and their concerns that what has been a very good programme on public health care, health promotion and illness prevention seems to be disappearing.
Having said this, you are right to highlight that public health research, which appears to have less of a genuine scientific dimension, but which focuses instead on epidemiology, should also be carried out.
It is planned in another category that perhaps has not been emphasised enough, namely the cooperation of national programmes.
Madam President, I would like first of all to highlight the excellent cooperation which exists between Commissioner Busquin and the European Parliament, by means of the committee which I chair, on issues of research.
The first is that the scientific community unreservedly supports the idea of a common area of research.
The second question relates to the instruments.
The three instruments planned: the networks of excellence, on the one hand, the integrated projects and the recourse to Article 169.
The scientific community is concerned about the fact that these three instruments are new and that they are the only ones being used.
These projects are, moreover, more geared towards the scientific community, because they have a European added value and they are projects for the longer term.
The networks of excellence, for example, are a long-term venture and they affect the scientific community more than the current system.
I am aware of the need to find a balance between the desire to create this European space, the dimension of projects, and the fact that everyone should feel involved.
I believe, however, that the whole debate that we will hold will actually be to find the right balance between change and a certain conformity, which has posed several problems in managing all the projects.
The European Framework Programme is an aspect of the European Research Area.
The European Research Area will also be created through the determination of Member States to increase their collaboration with one another in terms of their research tools.
The new instruments aim to provide greater responsibility and increased flexibility.
The rules for participation must, therefore, offer more to small and medium-sized businesses and the scientific community than they currently do.
Madam President, I want to use my speech to thank Commissioner Busquin for the exceptional opportunities he affords us by maintaining a continuous relationship with the European Parliament.
As far as our parliamentary committee is concerned, we have an idea for a whole series of centres of excellence to be active in Europe.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, four years ago, when I had the honour of presenting the statement on the Treaty of Amsterdam to this Parliament, together with my friend Dimitri Tsatsos, I ended that speech by recalling the words of Miguel de Cervantes who, when old and tired and weary of life, said that there were times when one had to chose between the road or the inn, between moving forward and staying put, and I said: 'we must chose the road, we must move ahead' .
The truth, however, is that the governments, which control the agenda at an Intergovernmental Conference, took a different decision and the agenda was, therefore, not the one the European Parliament wanted.
I would like to pay tribute to all the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who have worked extremely hard to reach a consensus, starting with its Chairman, Giorgio Napoletano, and also my good friend, Antonio Seguro, who has not only been a solid and intelligent contributor, but also an honest one.
I believe that this resolution looks to the future, towards that Declaration No 23, which lays down the basis for reform.
In this constructive spirit, we wanted to help the Swedish Presidency, with which we have had much contact over the last few months, so that this European Council in Gothenburg may show us the future of the European Union through the responses of its institutions.
Madam President, we want to see national committees set up in all the Member States so that the people may hold a genuine debate, not a phoney one, and in that way we will discover what the citizens want of Europe in the future.
This Parliament also wishes to see the Intergovernmental Conferences prepared by means of a democratic method.
Today, when we are seeing so many proposals from different people, all on the convention - which is a positive start - I would say that what the European Parliament wants is a convention based on the model of the convention which drafted the Charter of Fundamental Rights: on that one and none other; because that model was shown to be successful and it brought together various authorities in order to achieve the desired result.
On the basis of the convention model, we want the result of that convention also to be the role played by the governments in the Intergovernmental Conference.
The result we are seeking is a European Constitution, and I wish to make this completely clear, a European Constitution which makes everybody' s competences absolutely clear and, above all, makes it clear what each institution does within the institutional structure.
We want this to be ready before 2004, before the European Parliament elections, so that the political groups in this House can go into these elections defending our choices.
We are facing the Europe of the euro, the Europe of enlargement, and it is up to us whether this is a path of hope or a path which leads us to a situation of stalemate in the European Union, which none of us want to see.
I therefore want this resolution to make a constructive contribution to this road of hope becoming ever broader and our becoming ever more European.
The European Parliament strove to ensure that the Charter of Fundamental Rights was incorporated into the Treaties and the Conference approved the Charter but failed to incorporate it into the Treaties.
The European Parliament wanted the qualified-majority rule for Council decisions to be changed to co­decision with this Parliament, and the Conference did not do what we felt was right.
Europe is not about each country looking after its own interests, but about all countries looking after all the others, in homage to the founders of this European project.
We therefore propose, firstly, a new method of preparing for a revision of the Treaties.
As a matter of fact, there is something I cannot understand: if the intergovernmental method failed in Nice and if the convention was successful in drafting the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which the Council signed, why do we not take the good example of the convention to draft the reform of the Treaties?
In fact, I fail to understand why the national parliaments and the European Parliament cannot participate in this convention.
I cannot see what the Council is afraid of, because we are not seeking to replace governments, but to participate on an equal footing with governments in the debate and in making positive proposals for the future of the European Union.
Secondly, we want a wide-ranging debate, not one limited to the four issues listed in 'Declaration 23' .
I am also grateful for the way in which everyone contributed, even though at times extremely varying positions were held, to enabling us to reach a firm and strong position for the European Parliament, with practical proposals.
Lastly, I wish to thank the secretariat of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which made it possible for us to have the amendments and the proposals in all languages in good time.
Our aim, Madam President, is to do our bit to ensure that Parliament is contributing to a Europe that is closer to the citizens, a Europe that gives more backing to the Commission and Parliament and less to the Council, a Europe with institutions and bodies that concentrate more on looking after the welfare of all citizens living in this area and not on the national interests of Member States.
We also succeeded in extending the codecision-making procedure to encompass new areas in which the European Parliament, together with the national governments, can ensure that the decision-making process is democratically rooted.
These were important decisions, and we succeeded in getting further than just the three matters that were selected in Amsterdam.
An important aim must be to make citizens more active participants in the European project.
The Swedish Presidency which, together with the coming Belgian Presidency, has been given the task of getting this debate going has taken it very seriously.
We are now turning for the first time directly to the citizens of Europe in our preparations for an Intergovernmental Conference.
Similarly, a contradiction is often painted between those who believe that democratic legitimacy emanates from representatives elected by the populace in their own country and those who believe that it must be sought in a new political model of European cooperation.
I am convinced that we can do a lot to strengthen European democracy without rebuilding the Union from scratch.
The requirements for grassroots support and the extensive agenda will make special demands of the preparations for the next Intergovernmental Conference, and many people have said that we must find a more open way than previously.
Many people, especially here in Parliament, have proposed that we should use an open forum similar to the convention that drew up the Charter of Fundamental Rights last year.
In summary, I believe - based on the discussions I have had with Member States and applicant countries - that it will be difficult to find an individual form of preparation that is appropriate to all issues.
I believe that we need a convention, that we need technical preparations and that we need to report the national debates.
The Swedish Presidency will continue the discussions with the European Parliament alongside the deliberations in the Council.
Madam President, the opinion of the Committee on Budgets is in a way summed up in paragraphs 2, 3 and 40 of the motion for a resolution; but you will understand that I will not give in to the temptation to end my argument here.
In paragraph 3 of the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs it says that the Conference makes 'the decision-making process within the Union more confused and less transparent' .
In this regard, and from the point of view of the budget, I will just say that if you look at the budgetary payments and compare them with the votes of the Member States in the Council, the voting procedure will perhaps not appear so confused.
Turning to certain budgetary aspects, we, as I said, expected more ambition from the Member States, we hoped that they would now deal frankly with the issue of the budgetary procedure and that they would even choose, if you like, a model such as that in the German constitution, which has a 'financial constitution' section, which provides for financial compensation (Finanzausgleich) between the Member States, the lander of the German Federation.
There is still complete ambiguity with regard to the meaning of the Interinstitutional Agreement, to the point where there are 5 articles in the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline which provide for majorities not laid down in the Treaty.
This legal problem has not been resolved in Nice.
Because time is at a premium, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the President-in-Office of the Council because I have pointed out our different cultures, policies and traditions, but there is one thing that unites us all: Parliaments were born in Europe to represent the citizens by controlling public spending and approving the spending of the sovereign.
It was meant to strengthen the European Union' s ability to act for enlargement and at the same time to reduce the democratic deficit.
I have twice had the honour of representing Parliament - in Amsterdam and in Nice - and I know that this method of preparing for the Intergovernmental Conference does not bring us the necessary progress.
Only the convention can do that, with the national parliaments and the European Parliament, too, suitably involved alongside the Commission and the governments.
It may be helpful in making preparations, but the convention - consisting of parliamentarians - can channel that open forum, the public debate, so as to present to you as heads of state and government an outcome that will form the basis for your negotiations.
We must therefore ensure that where this European Union has powers it is able to take decisions, so that its decision-making ability gains it acceptance.
We must make this European Union democratic.
That is why we should give the convention a chance, so that Europe' s elected representatives, the European Parliament and the national parliaments can play a part in shaping that face! (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just one point will suffice to make clear to you my committee' s disappointment.
As a result, all the legislation coming out of Brussels in this sector affects the Union' s citizens directly.
I am referring to the codecision procedure, which, despite our demands, has still not been opened up for fisheries policy.
The future of Europe' s fisheries from 2003 is being rewritten at this very moment.
We therefore emphatically call for the codecision rules to be taken into Articles 32 to 38 of the EC Treaty and ask for your support!
Finally, we want our own title in the EC Treaty, all that, dear Elmar, in addition to agricultural policy.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs regrets that the Treaty of Nice made far fewer specific changes in the area of employment and social policy than those that it had sought.
It hopes that these issues will be addressed by the second report from the Constitutional Affairs Committee and by the next IGC.
On the broader institutional issues, presently under discussion, we welcome the report's call for a convention to prepare for the next IGC and for a debate involving the active participation of the European citizenry as a whole.
In particular, we would seek consultation, both within the Member States and with the applicant countries on the issue of the provision of a legal base for the involvement of civil society in the decision-making processes of the European Union.
Finally, we trust that the Charter of Fundamental Rights will be incorporated in the Treaties in a legally binding manner and we look forward in future to wide and active participation in the discussion on the future of the Union.
Mr President, I believe that the motion for a resolution on which we are going to vote on the future of the European Union and the assessment of Nice is a positive and balanced text which maintains the European Parliament' s important role in the construction of Europe.
As Chairman of the Industry Committee, I have presented an opinion which I would sum up by means of four points.
The first refers to paragraph 3 of Article 157 on support measures for industry.
The second is the financial consequences of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty in 2002.
The third relates to Article 181 A on relations with third countries, above all in the field of financial and technical cooperation.
Finally, the fourth aspect relates to the unsatisfactory amendments of Article 133 on the common trade policy.
All of them have the same defect, and that is that they do not resolve the clear democratic deficit which exists in these areas, where the role of the European Parliament, in some cases, is completely absent and, in others, is restricted to a mere consultation when it should have gone further.
I trust that this opinion which is appended to the motion for a resolution will soon be included in a new European Parliament document, and I also trust that these issues will be included in the agenda for the coming convention which will lead to an Intergovernmental Conference.
Our group believes it is important that we should also reach agreement between the groups in fundamental questions because we, the European Parliament, must be the guarantor of Europe as a community.
So this was a good Spanish-Portuguese contribution to the development of Europe, another positive effect.
The European Parliament is the Commission' s parliamentary watchdog at European level and in matters of legislation is of equal standing with the Council of Ministers.
It is the duty of national parliaments to exercise more control over their own governments.
We do not want a congress of national MPs, but we want the European Parliament to discharge its responsibility in Europe and our national colleagues to do so at national level! (Applause) The second and third pillars remain in place after Nice.
Intergovernmental cooperation is therefore not only an expression of a lack of ability to act, but it is also in contradiction with our values of democracy and the rule of law.
There will come another time when we shall have to assess matters of, for example, transparency and similar questions.
We are not expecting Gothenburg to bring any obstacles that will prevent a decision in Laeken about a convention, but we expect Gothenburg to show the way for good decisions in Laeken so that we can proceed into the European future on the basis of a convention.
Having said this, Mr President, I am not going to enter into a critical analysis of the Treaty, which has been the job of our two colleagues.
However, in any event, no forum can replace the convention, because - and I would like to remind you that it is an invention of the Council, not Parliament, at Cologne - it is a method by which we do not make recommendations but rather we debate the issues and make proposals for the Intergovernmental Conference.
In this respect, I believe that we have to be clear: it is not only a request of the European Parliament at this point.
If am not mistaken, after a lively debate in Stockholm, the COSAC last week expressed its support for the convention.
This clearly means that the representatives of the European people, elected on both European and national levels, agree that this convention should exist, in order to produce something which we consider to be essential, Mr President - and with this I will end - that is, an open, public and transparent debate, which will allow us to create treaties which are constitutional and, above all, comprehensible to our co-citizens.
In my country, the Republic of Ireland, in eight days time, there is a referendum on the Treaty of Nice, unique among the 15 Member States.
It is a "yes" to make sure that we meet the political conditions agreed in Helsinki that we in the EU should be ready, no later than the end of 2002, for this historic journey towards enlargement.
General Morillon, here this afternoon, served at Srebrenica and other places with dignity, despite having a very difficult and effectively impossible UN mandate.
Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to resolve the crisis of European integration it is time to speak openly.
It is about transforming the European project from a thing of administrative elites into a res publica.
The Intergovernmental Conference in Nice was a failure.
The Intergovernmental Conference has proved to be an unsuitable instrument.
The heads of state and government are making Europe into a bazaar of national interests.
That is the challenge if we are one day to be able to say: Vive la République d'Europe!
As the report says, the Treaty has rightly removed the obstacles to enlargement in the most formal way possible.
The Union itself is facing the greatest challenge in its history, but instead of energetically tackling the pressing problems, the governments dissipated their energies behind closed doors.
A constitutional process must therefore be initiated the outcome of which will be the formation of a united Europe by the will of its citizens.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commission, the European Union leaders when they met in Nice last December to review existing treaties had one single objective in mind: they sought to change the internal decision-making procedures within the institutions of the Union to guarantee that enlargement of the European Union could take place.
The Treaty of Nice does not build a two-tier European Union whereby larger Member States can dictate the pace of change within the Union at the expense of the smaller states.
All Member States within the Union will retain the right to appoint one member to the Commission until 27 countries become full members of the Union, and even at that stage, positions in the Commission will be distributed between all Members on a rotation basis.
Decisions concerning key national entries will remain the exclusive domain of individual Member State governments, and any changes concerning taxation policies or social security matters will be left to individual countries to decide on.
The unanimity requirement for tax changes remains the order of the day within the Union.
This is very important, because I believe that issues of taxation should be addressed by national parliaments and not decided centrally by the European Union.
We are all aware in this House that a constitutional referendum on the Treaty of Nice is being held in Ireland next week.
The Treaty is certainly a good deal for countries of Central and Eastern Europe, but equally for existing Member States of the Union.
There is no doubt that the operation of the internal market has been a success, particularly over the last ten years, and from an Irish perspective economic success in our country could simply not have been achieved if we were not a Member of the Union.
The crucial element of this Treaty and of the refrain that forms the basis of this report is to be found in the ambition expressed in recital F and in what follows on from this.
The only people who are being asked are the Irish people, and I sincerely hope that, on behalf of all the populations of Europe, the Irish people will tell these élites that their conception of democracy is a misunderstanding and then vote against the Treaty on 7 June.
Mr President, I should also like to applaud the rapporteurs in particular because they did not give way to the temptation, perhaps even the pressure from a largish number of parliamentarians, to demonise the outcome of Nice as a knee-jerk reaction, but rather endeavoured to make an objective critique.
It is true that the Nice Summit and the Treaty of Nice contain numerous contradictions and a great many lacunae, especially as regards the role of the European Parliament within both the future of Europe and the institutional framework on the basis of which Europe is to move forward from now on.
The resolution contains precise guidelines for preparing adequate responses to the fundamental questions on the future of the Union in constitutional terms.
We set great store - I want to stress this point particularly - by the role of the national parliaments and our cooperation with them in every possible way.
My group is determined that the specific legitimacy of the European Parliament to play a part in the constitutional development of the Union should be recognised inside the convention.
This would subvert the convention and it would be an insult to this Parliament.
I would request the Commission and Council to pledge that the convention will have four parties inside it, and that the IGC will use the work of the convention as the basis for the IGC.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, it is a great pleasure at this time - when in the United Kingdom I fear a rather negative tone has been taken about Europe - to be able to say how much one welcomes this development of a constitutionalisation of Europe in circumstances of enlarged and expanding democracy bringing the countries of Central and Eastern Europe in.
As the President-in-Office has said, it is an odd view that the European Union does not already have a constitution.
This is because the institutional issues involved in the enlargement are not resolved by the Treaty of Nice.
Moreover, most of what was decided in Nice has nothing to do with enlargement.
As pointed out in the report, the seats in the European Parliament must be redistributed since there is direct discrimination against Hungary and the Czech Republic.
The decision-making process in the Council of Ministers will become more complicated, not simpler.
It is therefore not difficult for my party and for me to vote against both the Treaty of Nice and the report that we are to vote on tomorrow.
Moreover, it calls for a redistribution of seats in the European Parliament, which is an essential democratic requirement.
However, if in the end we are to have a convention then we believe that it must be a convention for those who decide on the treaty, namely the national parliaments.
The so-called crisis facing the European Union is a result of this federalist obsession.
We could begin here in Parliament, where democratic representation is so lacking in authenticity and so mediocre.
This is a proposal to centralise power, to wipe out Member States, and to destroy social and economic cohesion.
We do not want to see a United States of Europe, but a Community.
We do not want a federation of nation states, but a Union made up of the nation states that we are.
If there is no single European people, there can be no legitimate constituent European power.
I believe, if I may say so, that no one in Germany should vote for this Treaty either, since it seems obvious that the unexpected advantage gained at Nice by Germany is only due to the desire of our two national politicians, who behave much like Edouard Daladier, to come to an agreement, come what may.
Mr President, this Treaty is not only worthless, which is what we are hearing from the whole of this House, but it is also dangerous, and Parliament would do itself credit if everyone of every political hue sent back their copy to those who, at Nice, made such a poor prediction about the future of Europe.
The reform of the Commission will only take place after enlargement, and even then its content is extremely vague.
As for the redistribution of seats in the European Parliament and re-weighting of votes in the Council, this makes the Community veer from an approach centred on States towards an approach centred on populations, which might help to lay the foundations of a superstate, but does nothing to help enlargement.
In actual fact, the pursuit of a superstate justifies almost all the provisions of the Treaty of Nice, which are devoted to strengthening the institutions and the supranational procedures by extending majority voting to the crucial issues of sovereignty.
Mr President, Nice was simply not a successful Summit.
It would have been much better if that work had been delivered before and not after Nice.
A great deal went wrong at Nice, but the most serious mistakes have been the complicated decision-making processes that have been created, which are even more complex and opaque than before, and the fact that on a number of scores, a qualified majority vote was taken without approval from the European Parliament.
Mr Barón Crespo wondered what had happened to the proposals by the PPE-DE Presidents and Prime Ministers: reinforcement of the European Commission, a European Parliament with proper powers, and a Council which has to hold public meetings in the form of a Senate or a Bundesrat.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, it would be better if you were to adopt this idea.
This is not the case with their Members here, or at least not all of their Members here - I noticed that the two British Conservative Members in the committee voted for the Méndez de Vigo/Seguro report and I pay tribute to them for having done so.
Precisely because in this Treaty of Nice there is no further transfer of competence to the European Union.
Others have been disappointed with the Treaty of Nice, because it did not go far enough and because of some of the questionable compromises it contains, such as the voting system in the Council and the extra seats in the European Parliament.
As work went on in our committee, however, we realised that Nice also had a lot of positive points.
Rejecting Nice would have caused delay and confusion. 2004 offers us opportunities to improve what our President of the Council refers to as the existing European constitution, the Treaties.
Yes, it needs improvement, but so does our method for working on it.
Mr President, we support this resolution reaffirming the full right of the European Parliament to take part in decisions on the future of the Union, which many government ministers still believe to be their exclusive prerogative.
Large countries were also given a new right of veto based on their population.
Declaration 23 adopted in Nice will increase federalist pressure for the EU to adopt a superstate constitution and use the convention method in its preparation.
The Treaty of Nice supports a federal republic along the lines of the German model and does not recognise the demand of the French Prime Minister for a Europe of independent states.
This report supports the development of a federal state and must be rejected, and national parliaments should reject the Treaty of Nice.
I also hope the President of the Republic, who has the power to intervene, will correct this approach, but if the Seguro resolution is passed tomorrow - and I would have liked to make it even stronger - we have to recognise that it is a proposal contradicting the recent statements by Mr Jospin and the French government.
Every province used to have veto right in all decisions.
The EU' s legitimacy is a far greater problem than its complex political structure.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on this objective, interesting report.
The following areas are important for us: the division of competences between the EU and the Member States that could stand at the start of a constitutional process, the simplification of the Treaties to make them easier to communicate to the population and easier for those affected to understand, the inclusion of national parliaments in a future united Europe in order to involve the citizens and make them more enthusiastic for a united Europe, and of course the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the two rapporteurs, Iñigo Méndez de Vigo and António José Seguro, took on the difficult task of evaluating the results of the Nice Government Summit in December 2000 without hurting anyone while at the same time setting our sights for the future and expressing the hopes and demands of the European Parliament.
As Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I should have liked the language to have been clearer.
We regret that precisely because we want enlargement and want it as quickly as possible.
We have reservations in particular about the complicated voting procedure in the Council of Ministers, but also about the number of MPs and the composition of the European Parliament; that this should not be settled until 2009 is completely unsatisfactory, will create legal problems in the meantime, create injustices for some candidate countries and also cement the continuing democratic deficit because it fails to link the codecision process to majority voting in the Council of Ministers.
Nice set out four topics for the new Intergovernmental Conference, of which the definition of competences is of the utmost importance for us and must be settled before the first accessions.
I want to argue here for the clear legal concept of a constitutional treaty.
Nice was the summit of interests, not to mention the summit of national egoism.
The post-Nice process now gives us the opportunity to reassert the importance of politics.
Before we start another rush-job on the institutions, let us clearly establish why we want more of Europe, to protect and consolidate our fundamental values and our social model, in order to give more weight to the European Union, and occasionally to give it more balance, in international politics, to say loudly and clearly that internal and external solidarity must take precedence over any prevailing egoism.
Let us strengthen the existing institutional triangle.
First and foremost, let us find a better way to involve citizens in the preparation of the future of the Union.
The new method of the convention that our two rapporteurs have been hoping and praying for gives us the opportunity to do this.
Mr President, there has been severe criticism of the Treaty of Nice, not just here in this House, but throughout Europe.
The kind of late-night dealing and smoke-filled rooms that finalised the treaty was the unacceptable face of the EU and it is not worthy of a Union of 350 million people.
I believe Ireland will vote "no" on 7 June in spite of the sneers of some elites here and elsewhere and that result will be welcomed all over Europe.
They have hijacked the EU institutions and this will mean that some states become second class members including the new applicant countries.
The Treaty of Nice could mean that a number of Member States could decide to go ahead with a nuclear-armed force even though other states do not agree.
It is also unacceptable for the European Parliament to criticise the position taken in Nice on increasing the number of MEPs in order to ensure a more pluralist composition following enlargement, although it then tries to achieve some fairness with regard to the number of representatives from Hungary and the Czech Republic.
Mr President, we note with interest that the governments are starting a dialogue on the future of the Union.
After proposals from Mr Fischer and Chancellor Schröder, this week it is Mr Jospin' s stance that augurs a European future based on nation states.
A confederation of states, respecting the principle of subsidiarity and respecting differences, would enrich a united Europe and its peoples.
I do not agree with the emphasis placed on the convention model as the body to prepare for the coming umpteenth Intergovernmental Conference, because a Parliament which cannot change a comma in the text drafted by the convention becomes a democratic fiction.
We do not want the bill on the future of the Union submitted to us for consent as well, because that is the same as being told that we can debate as long as we like but we cannot amend the text.
The future of Europe cannot be entrusted just to a convention, however enlightened and elite, but it must remain a prerogative of the representatives of the institutions and of the people's elected representatives.
Conservative MEPs will be opposing this report, not as a verdict on the Treaty of Nice, but rather to initiate a change of procedure in preparations for the next IGC and to raise the subject of galvanising public awareness and participation in the post-Nice debate.
However, despite the connotations surrounding the subject of this report, there is no explicit "yes" or "no" given to the Treaty of Nice itself.
Mr President, the Treaty of Nice represents both a failure and an opportunity.
Nice is also an opportunity, however, because the announcement of the next IGC leaves the door open to a new phase in European integration, whose objectives are to respond to the demands of the citizens, to put an end to the democratic deficit, to implement the European social model, to intervene, with our own ideas, in globalisation, in order to regulate it, and to complete enlargement without turning the EU into a mere free trade area.
The key to this new cycle must be to adopt a European constitution by means of a radically democratic process which goes way beyond Nice and is led by a convention, made up equally of the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament - whose final composition will have to be set within this framework - and national parliaments, which produces a constitutional proposal which will have to be formally adopted before the European elections.
Mr President, an unbecoming process and a still worse result, is what many here in Parliament are saying for a variety of reasons.
We could therefore try to find new ground rules for the future, but ones which do not affect ourselves alone but, above all, involve the people.
I would also like briefly to touch on the criticism of Nice.
We sincerely believe that the new agricultural policy, based on the principles of multi-functionality and sustainability, requires and demands co-decision in order to achieve greater democratic legitimacy, greater transparency and also - of course - greater coherence in the agricultural policy which European society is demanding.
Mr President, I approve of the Méndez de Vigo-Seguro report, which represents an excellent summary of the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
The reunification of Europe is indeed a historic turning point, but a turning point which calls for a far-reaching reform of the institutions of the Union.
The Nice Summit exhausted the intergovernmental method which necessarily involves difficult mediation between national interests.
What is needed now is a constituent convention to define, before the European elections, a model capable of guaranteeing democracy and efficiency in Union action.
The report avoids exacerbating the argument about the Treaty of Nice, but clearly condemns its limitations.
However, we cannot remain silent, waiting for Laeken, at a time when influential spokesmen of national governments are addressing issues fundamental to the future of the Union.
I do not know what Aznar and Berlusconi will say, but I do know that the specific problems of the Community and the reform of the institutions are two sides of the same coin, and I do know that Europe must become a political area with a democratic soul.
Parliament cannot stand on the sidelines of this debate.
The future of Europe cannot be left entirely to market forces and confrontation between national governments.
Parliament must promote a debate going beyond the pragmatism that ties the hands of the national governments.
Mr President, I also want to thank Mr Méndez de Vigo and Mr Seguro for this excellent report, which reflects the opinion of the vast majority here in the European Parliament.
This is something new and different from Maastricht and Amsterdam.
We are not saying a clear yes because we are not satisfied with the results and because we believe neither freedom of action nor, of course, democratic control are guaranteed in a Union that is now being extended to 20 or 25 states.
I believe the most important institution for the citizens is the European Parliament, not the Council of Ministers.
Mr President, five arguments.
That brings me to the fourth argument, which is that the Treaty of Nice will only be swallowed if we have already done this groundwork.
I should just like to say briefly that the Nice Summit was held against a background of total indifference on the part of the citizens of Europe, despite the fact that it has serious repercussions for them, and total indifference on the part of the governments towards the citizens of Europe.
These were the two stakes, and both have been lost.
It is true that more areas are covered by qualified majority voting, but these are not that important.
We need more decisions by qualified majority and codetermination rights for Parliament.
Let us start the convention, and let it become the starting point for the next Intergovernmental Conference.
The new Treaty also contains upbeat points, and it would be a serious political mistake simply to wipe this new Treaty off the table.
We must have this openness if we are to be able to talk about democracy and not just about diplomacy within the EU.
Finally, the principle of subsidiarity needs to be clarified.
Mr President, the enlargement process is the bridge from the old Europe to the new.
Despite our misgivings about one aspect or the other of this report, we should be brave enough to give the leadership that the people of Europe expect from this Parliament, the elected representatives of the people of Europe.
It does not seek to give a view on the ratification of Nice.
I happen to be campaigning in Ireland for a "yes" vote but it is a critical "yes".
I have my criticisms of the Treaty of Nice, but it is important that we be brave enough to say, "Of course, we have problems, but it is important that the enlargement process gets under way".
Most importantly in the debate about the future of Europe is the kind of Europe we want: do we want a democratically participative Europe, do we want a socially inclusive Europe?
We must get involved in the debate, we have to persuade people here and in our own Member States.
We must provide not only a forum at European level through a convention, but also ensure that there are fora in every Member State, so that people in each Member State can talk and debate with each other with other people in Europe.
Mr President, the Irish referendum on the Treaty of Nice is taking place at a defining moment in our relationship with the European Union.
They are particularly concerned that the traditional, consensual, decision-making process of the EU is being abandoned in favour of a system whereby larger Member States will exercise power at the expense of smaller countries.
They are also worried that enhanced cooperation could create a first and second-class citizenship within the EU.
I do not share these concerns, but Irish citizens need assurance in these points, not only in the context of this debate, but also with regard to long-term Irish interests within the EU.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Méndez de Vigo and Mr Seguro.
Nice was in many ways a failure and, in my view, the IGC method is obsolete.
A valuable, powerful, democratic European Parliament, elected by the European citizens, with codecision in all areas of policy, and with a European constitution founded on the Fundamental Rights Charter.
Mr President, we have a fine future ahead of us, and I believe that we did some sterling work in this resolution.
Mr President, Commissioner Barnier, Mr President-in-Office, the Treaty of Nice fails to go far enough not only in institutional matters but in a number of important spheres.
It is based on common principles and there is in principle majority voting.
I have already had occasion to say, and I shall repeat today, that this treaty is, in my view, a useful, short-term treaty.
It is useful because of the advances which it makes: Article 7, the reform of the jurisdictional system, which certainly needed reforming, more flexible reinforced cooperation, which we certainly need and the legal basis which you wanted for a clear and transparent statute for the political parties.
What I mean by that, ladies and gentlemen, is that, in my view, the answers which it provides to the institutional challenge of creating a Union of thirty members which functions properly will not stand up in the long run to the problems which this Union of thirty members will encounter in the medium and long term.
We know full well that, with thirty members, this right of veto will be a source of impotence or collective weakness.
Well, both the European Parliament and, more importantly, the Commission, will have to commit to this new exercise, which takes us up to 2004 and for which a new method has been authorised, proving that the intergovernmental method alone has had its day.
As I said to the ministers of foreign affairs the other day we must find a way, in Gothenburg first of all, and perhaps in Laeken, but mainly in Gothenburg, of making an overall assessment of the national debates which are held, rather than holding a series of juxtaposed debates, a way of exchanging practices and information, of sort of cross-fertilising these national debates.
The Commission, like the European Parliament, will be standing by at the Council's side, ready to turn these national debates into a European debate when the time is right.
Then, in 2002 and 2003, we will need to find a way of structuring this debate, of structuring our work so that we can prepare the final Intergovernmental Conference properly.
That is why, in 2002 and 2003, as President Prodi said, we too are in favour of setting up a convention of all four institutional partners, along the lines of the model which worked so well for the Charter of Fundamental Rights, that is, national parliaments, the European Parliament, the national governments and the Commission.
I should therefore like to say, on behalf of the Commission, that we are in favour of this convention in 2002 and 2003, because it is instrumental to the success of the exercise started in Nice and to real reform - this time in 2004.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, the European Parliament has requested that the Council provide information on the visit to the Korean peninsular made by Prime Minister Göran Persson on 2-4 May in his capacity as President of the EU.
The High Representative Javier Solana and Commissioner Chris Patten participated.
Mr President, the European Union strongly supports President Kim Dae-jung's sunshine policy and it was on this basis that the mission led by Göran Persson, in which my colleague Chris Patten participated, took place.
The Union's role in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is complementary to that of the three main players: South Korea, United States of America and Japan.
The timing, however, was influenced by our desire to help maintain momentum in the reconciliation process on the Korean peninsula while the United States is finalising its policy review.
The visit obtained, as we have already heard, significant results and the European Union team had some five hours of interesting discussion with President Kim Chung-il during which it was able to address its concerns in full.
We are now following up in five areas: first, existing assistance is being continued.
A maximum allocation of EUR 7 million is foreseen for humanitarian assistance and EUR 20 million for food aid and food security under the 2001 budget.
Secondly, preparations to launch our technical assistance are moving ahead and a project identification mission to North Korea is expected shortly in order to agree the design of two pilot projects with the North Korean authorities: these will each be close to EUR 1 million and will aim particularly at training officials in key ministries and at basic institution building.
Fourthly, we are exploring ways to develop a dialogue with North Korea on economic reform by organising study visits to the Union.
Fifth and finally, we are studying options for diplomatic accreditation arrangements with North Korea following the decision to establish diplomatic relations on 14 May.
Meanwhile, we await with interest the completion of the US policy review on North Korea and hope that this will lead to progress in the inter-Korea reconciliation process.
Last January, the European Parliament asked both the Council and the Commission, following a visit from an ad hoc delegation, to take the measures needed to consolidate the policy of rapprochement between North and South Korea and open up North Korea to the international community.
I should like to close simply by saying that we must not overlook the fact that the process initiated will be long and gradual but that it is important in order to maintain the peace in this part of the world on which our own stability and security also depend.
Mr President, the Socialist Group welcomes very much the official visit to North Korea and to Seoul by the Council, Commission and the High Representative of the CFSP.
I hope on future occasions the Commission and the Council might consider taking some parliamentarians along, particularly in the light of the fact that relations between North Korea and the European Union were pioneered by the European Parliament, over two years ago, when we sent our first official delegation.
We welcome the fact that they are continuing their moratorium on missile tests until 2004.
It is important that we have a human rights dialogue and I welcome the fact that on 13 June that dialogue is going to take place.
Commissioner Patten told us yesterday - and it was repeated today - that human rights were also discussed during the talks, and they are systematically violated in this last of the communist dictatorships.
Would it not have been better to obtain concessions in this delicate area first and then grant the reward of a visit to Pyongyang?
Mr Santer, we can agree with everything you said and I also understand that working conditions for NGOs was one of the issues raised during the visit: the delegation understood that things have improved in the last year although there is probably very much more to be done.
They were not part of the delegation, but they come.
Sometimes, of course, one could invite MEPs, but I understand that on this issue there is a good cooperation between the European Parliament, Commission and Council and I hope that can continue.
I do not have the right to say that in future there should be participation of MEPs, but we have noted your comment on this.
The debate is closed.
You may think that this was written by a twenty-first century environmental activist, but it was published in 1536 by Martin Bucer, clergyman of the Thomas Church in Strasbourg.
The cautious approach which the Commission has adopted is, in itself, understandable, but should not mean that the safeguarding of economic growth in the short term is afforded top priority in the political arena.
This principle of social justice and equality should also be one of the considerations.
The problem of environmental degradation does not exist in isolation.
Not only in developing countries, but also in prosperous countries does this interaction occur.
A systematic approach would make it fairly easy to identify the interaction between economic activities (per sector), the environment and other areas in an objective manner.
Public awareness of the importance of a sustainable, economic development is generally below par.
It is therefore regrettable that today' s debate was announced under the heading 'environmental policy' .
It is thus about whether we want to assume our responsibility, and whether we really want to be the stewards of this earth.
It is an inheritance that goes back further in time.
However, we must bear in mind that it is easy for us who live in a fairly small, rich part of the world to say that we want to leave behind us, for others to inherit, a situation that is just as good as that which we have.
For an overwhelming majority in the world, the desire must be for their children to have a better life than they had.
The process in Parliament for producing this document, which is still to form some kind of basis or contribution to the Gothenburg Summit, leaves a great deal to be desired.
We must see ourselves as part of the planet, in the global context.
The point of the Agenda 21 work was that it provided, and is providing, opportunities for voluntary organisations, players at local level, municipalities and citizens to participate in the process and understand what it is about.
The debate is addressing the strategy for sustainable development and integration of environmental issues in economic policy.
Distrust was expressed regarding our common policy and the abilities of the European Union.
An effective policy on sustainable development requires direct and clear social criticism.
That goal must be coupled with the ecological aspect in Gothenburg if we are to be the region taking the greatest responsibility for nature and the environment.
In the continued work on a strategy of sustainability, dialogue with civil society and between the institutions of the European Union must be strengthened.
The European Union must take a leading role in the work towards global sustainability.
As part of the preparations for the European Council in Gothenburg and for the summit in Johannesburg, last weekend I received 250 young people aged 20-25 from 110 different countries around the world.
Hence my committee' s call for rapid progress in enabling people to work efficiently through effective consultation and participation, because democracy is also part of sustainability, as are reduced working hours and good quality work in safe working conditions supported by an effective system of social security.
Hence my committee' s call for all European Union funded training initiatives to take the environmental dimension fully into account, if we are really preparing people for the future.
Sustainable development is about creating a world in which there are no losers.
Our common future depends on finding an effective way to ensure integration and sustainability.
The problem is that while there is in theory no internal contradiction between economic growth and preserving the environment, up until now economic growth has in practice normally been detrimental to the quality of the environment.
However, on the other hand, economic decline combined with rising unemployment and poverty have also always resulted in a loss of environmental quality.
The Commission must put its communication on a statistically secure footing if we are not to continue building castles in the air.
Trade in environmental assets must be fair.
The Gothenburg European Council needs to take an emphatic first step in this connection.
We want to focus on the development of concrete product standards, standards which curb the use of energy, standards which restrict, or ban as much as possible, the use of dangerous substances, and rules to enable the environmental cost to be reflected in the price of the product.
The standards must also aim to prevent waste: less throw-away packaging, less wear-and-tear, more sustainability and more sustained quality.
The major challenge is then to create markets for all the product waste and all waste substances.
Moreover, such markets also yield new employment.
The protection of nature and bio-diversity is also a value in its own right without having an immediate economic value.
The protection of bio-diversity is a theme which must recur in many policy areas.
Mr President, Commissioner, the paradox with the European Union is that its environmental legislation has played a pioneering role for many countries in the Union, including my own, and will certainly play a pioneering role for the candidate countries, and yet many of the European Union's sectoral policies do in fact contradict criteria for sustainable development.
I think that what we urgently need, and this is the gist of our support for the two European Parliament reports and the Myller report attached to them, is to change direction.
Secondly, the Environment Council to be held a week after Gothenburg needs to take account of the demands of the European Parliament for the Sixth Framework Programme.
We shall be watching to see, under the Belgian Presidency, if the European Council in Barcelona really will be the first European Council to integrate an environmental, social and economic strategy.
Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the Commission' s proposal on sustainable development.
The question now is whether these concrete proposals will survive the European Council in Gothenburg.
Europe should take a common stand at international environmental fora and should set the Member States objectives in framework directives, leaving them to decide how to achieve them.
If, for example, in item 32 we are calling for a minimum income and talking about access to essential services, that should not have its place in a report on environmental policy that has actually been prepared only by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, but only after intensive discussion with the Social and Economic Committees.
If the PSE Group is calling for an end to them before 2005 in its forthcoming report on the Sixth Environment Action Programme, that will lead to mass redundancies and then we will certainly not achieve the objective sustainably.
I therefore believe we should clearly state the objective, there is no dissent about that, but we should also give thought to alternative employment... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for their excellent reports.
Sustainable development concerns all policy areas.
Both show the necessity of integrating environmental policy, social policy and economic policy, if we are really to achieve sustainable development.
As Swedish Minister for the Environment Kjell Larsson says, what is needed now is political courage within all the institutions and in all areas.
The Commission' s document on integrating environmental policy into economic policy states that there is no contradiction between economic growth and environmental protection.
Therefore, economic development must be adapted to ecological requirements, otherwise there will be no sustainable development.
Ten years after Rio, this really must be addressed... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, how can we preserve our resources and improve environmental health and social well-being in a balanced manner, without affecting any of the three pillars of sustainable development?
The Gothenburg Summit will try to provide an answer to these questions and will demonstrate the maturity and political capacity of our governments to deal with the challenge of a new order of peace and prosperity for the twenty-first century.
The first step consists of severing the link between economic growth and the intense use of resources and unwanted effects such as pollution.
If we want to eliminate forever the spectre of the loss of competitiveness or the threat of industrial conflict in Europe, we need more than ever, and urgently, to move ahead in a way which is uniform and coherent between all the Member States.
We also need to establish realistic timetables which allow companies and society in general to adapt to the new market conditions and introduce the necessary reforms, thereby reducing the possibilities of unwanted effects if they are dealt with within too narrow a margin for manoeuvre.
Lastly, I think it is essential, in order to successfully bring the process of change to a conclusion, to enjoy a broad social consensus which includes commitments with social operators and the gradual but firm replacement - of course - of the social values of the old order - based on the possession and accumulation of goods - with other values of a society which is ethically and civically more advanced, based on the enjoyment of the less materialistic aspects of life.
Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, it is not and can never be a choice between employment or the environment.
The infrastructure, organisation and technology that are needed for a cleaner environment are all achievable because of the wealth and surpluses of the local economies.
A strong lobby in favour of environmental protection is a good and necessary part of any mature democratic society.
It is remarkable to think that the concept of 'sustainable development' has been around for 15 years now and has been kept alive despite so many people criticising it over the years for being woolly, difficult to achieve in practice, difficult to establish practical results for, etc.
However, it still no doubt offers us an opportunity to link together economic policy, environmental policy and social policy and not just to see the problems, but also the opportunities inherent in this concept.
I believe we are just starting to develop effective indicators which, in the long term, may lead to new economic concepts in general, a sort of new definition, including a new economic definition.
It has felt as if we have been pressed for time, but I would like to say that we have received more than 100 written comments, all in plenty of time.
In this context, Parliament will naturally also have an active role.
The Commission has said that we must continue to become still more practical and to follow up our views on how to act internationally.
At the same time, our strategy for sustainable development also emphasises, as Mrs Paulsen pointed out, that we must ensure that we rid ourselves of inconsistent policies and subsidies which are actually not good for the environment and which are not favourable to sustainable development.
Finally, I would like to comment on how we define sustainable development, as this was brought up in Mr Blokland' s report.
Thank you for this debate.
Several speakers have mentioned economic growth and its impact on the environment.
At the same time emissions of greenhouse gases have fallen by 4 percent.
This means that for every one million euros of production, emissions of greenhouse gases are approximately 55 percent lower.
Emissions of NOx in Sweden per EUR 1 million of production is now down by approximately 60 percent.
The equivalent figure for emissions of SOx is around 80 percent.
I believe, Mr President, that these comments will suffice.
Thank you, Mr Larsson.
The debate is closed.
However, as we wanted to make our own contribution to the Gothenburg Summit, the first summit to be devoted to environmental issues, it has not been possible to avoid this rush, nor the Committee having to vote so late in the day.
During the period spent preparing the environment action programme we have been able to reach reasonable unanimity on the areas of emphasis suggested by the Commission being the right ones.
When instructing the Commission on drawing up the programme in March a year ago, the Environment Committee also demanded that concrete targets and timetables be set.
Achieving environmental targets requires cooperation.
The Commission and the Council must change the way they work so that environmental issues can be integrated with all Community decision-making.
This requires the provision of clear and visible information on environmental issues.
I would highlight as particularly important the fact that she has welcomed the proposals that we advocated on the need to reform the common agricultural policy, on the premise that we must foster and support the development and implementation of strategies for incorporating environmental issues into the relevant sectoral policies and that we also need to protect agricultural production, taking account of food safety, the precautionary principle and the sovereignty of food, promoting the specific characteristics of the regions and more natural production methods.
Furthermore, as you all know, the importance of renewable raw materials will increase with the efforts made to achieve a more sustainable economic system, in which forests and cultivated land are of particular importance.
The procedures must, of course, also take account of the differing degrees of agricultural development in the various Member States of the European Union and in the applicant countries.
Mr President, we agree with the rapporteur and the Commission on the priority objectives of this programme and we agree that it is very important and that it will mark out the European Union' s environmental policy over the next ten years.
The interest in this programme is clear.
It is demonstrated by the fact that we have spent hours voting on more than 350 amendments and that today, despite many amendments presented by the different draftspeople having been taken up, almost 300 amendments are still to be submitted to the House for its approval.
I believe that, in the view of the Committee on Petitions - and I am referring to the specific experience of this committee - there are two fundamental issues, which the rapporteur has taken up.
The first is the application of Community law.
The second is the promotion of citizen participation.
We have noted in the Committee on Petitions that of the 1100 or 1200 petitions registered each year in this committee, 40% relate to the natural environment.
This demonstrates that not only ecologist groups but also platforms of everyday citizens have an enormous interest in preserving the environment in which they live and that it is they who are complaining.
In the view of the Committee on Petitions, these are the fundamental issues: the participation of the citizens, speeding up the procedures and, above all, compliance with Community law.
A few months ago we held a debate in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the fact that, although the environmental legislation in the European Union is extraordinary, it is not complied with.
We must find a method for complying with it.
We are proposing certain amendments aimed at penalising those countries which do not use the Structural Funds or the Cohesion Fund in projects for preserving the environment.
We also have to find other mechanisms to speed up the procedures so that the citizens do not lose patience.
I hope that tomorrow most of the amendments presented by the rapporteur and some of the groups will be approved and I believe that what we have to achieve is for the programme to be implemented properly over the next ten years.
Mr President, we regret the little time available to us because this project has not been able to lead to a democratic and open debate, as we would have liked, and this would have contributed to making the population and civil society more aware of what we are dealing with in Parliament.
We as a group have always supported the Commission because we have believed that this was a great project.
It has been criticised for being too light, but I believe that not everybody has understood that the Commission' s proposal consisted of transferring specific policies into thematic strategies; and this is because the thematic strategies are a new way of working, a more scientific way, where the details are going to be studied in greater depth: the technical levels and the technical solutions, the viability of projects, the situations of the countries and the type of legislation which would be suitable.
We believed that our margin for presenting amendments had to be limited and narrow, in order not to completely change the system of the project.
Furthermore, we firmly believe that one of the best policies in the history of Europe is the environmental policy: it has fantastic teams of officials and, at the same time, teams of experts to advise them, and it seemed to us that it was not a question of creating another parallel project.
Now that the situation has taken a new turn towards numerous amendments, we have introduced some priorities to supplement the project, not to correct it, because there are already many approved directives and it seemed to us that it was not a question of looking backwards.
We have therefore introduced initiatives, for example, on the urban environment, on the countryside, on a sustainable culture, on the issue of animal feed and the control of the food chain, an issue which we would have put much more stress on if the document had been produced before now.
Therefore, we have wanted to strengthen and extend it, thereby showing that our group has a great interest in this policy.
The same must be said of an indiscriminate rate on hydrocarbons and on energy which may penalise the weaker sections of the population who take two hours to get to work because they live in the outskirts of the cities.
To sum up, we have believed in the project and we are supporting it.
In that context, I would like to thank our rapporteur and briefly comment on two points which seem to me particularly important.
While it is indeed important to set objectives at continent level, we must not forget that only committed, continuous action on the ground can actually secure a profound change in habits and customs, instilling a new culture of eco-compatible planning into every level of our local institutions.
In that connection, I venture to draw your attention to Amendments Nos 52 and 53, already endorsed by the Committee on the Environment.
We must succeed in ensuring that all the instruments provided by the programme - legislative, fiscal, financial, scientific, cultural and informative - can actually be used.
For this - and here I come to my second point - it is fundamentally important to strengthen training in environmental policy for all the players operating on the ground.
I am not just talking about administrators, but also about economic and social players and individual citizens, whom we must succeed in involving in this collective effort so that we can indeed make a qualitative leap in the protection of our environment, hence putting on greater pressure for the achievement of ambitious objectives at global level.
We therefore offer our hesitant support to this process.
I cannot therefore but support the honourable Member.
Mr President, during the assessment of the fifth environment action programme, clear and challenging observations were made about the different environmental issues nearly two years ago.
The conclusion of the assessment was that the objectives of the fifth environment action programme were not met.
The solving of environmental issues in those countries is very high on the list of priorities.
Mr President, evaluating an extensive and not always specifically formulated ten year programme for EU environmental policy is a difficult enough task in itself.
I really feel sorry for the Commission officials who presented a very good report because their good work was changed so much.
In the discussion on the evaluation of the Fifth Environment Action Programme with a view to the sixth, three essential concerns were repeatedly formulated in the fundamentals, and thankfully I find them here again: streamlined EU legislation, a voluntary approach to implementation - so far as possible - and greater involvement of the consumer, whose behaviour we want to influence, after all.
Sometimes something has been lost altogether, in the case of noise, for example, which in my opinion is a key environmental factor for human health.
Then when you come to the measures concerning health in Article 6, however hard you look, Commissioner, I can find not one specific measure about noise.
We have now also received the Prodi paper for the Gothenburg Summit.
It has to be said that this paper contains a number of interesting ideas which go even further, such as the abolition of subsidies for fossil fuels until 2010, and 7% bio-fuels for cars and lorries, also in 2010.
Mr President, on the eve of the Gothenburg Summit, we needed to find a way of reconciling the environment and economic growth, that is, of combating the deterioration in the environment while giving companies the means to develop.
The sixth action programme makes a more or less felicitous attempt to do this.
For example, we are moving on to the sixth programme without any real evaluation of the results of the fifth programme, which is completely irregular.
We also feel that programming over a ten-year period is much too long, to the point at which theory has prevailed over practice in the Commission communication, a document of 90 pages no less.
Finally, the objectives of enhanced protection for biodiversity through the Natura 2000 network are proving troublesome.
Given its enhanced legal status, this document will be of greater significance than any of the other environmental action plans I have seen going through Parliament in the last 10 or so years.
The proposals are still there at the centre of the document in the amendments.
The Commission can still rescue it at second reading.
The rapporteur will have the chance of getting a core of sensible amendments together at second reading that will have the support of the clear majority of Members of this House.
I, like many others tomorrow, will vote for this report and the bulk of the amendments, knowing that by going forward to the second reading we are taking steps in the long process of developing an environment policy for the European Union which will outlast all the presidencies and all the ministers that this Parliament will see, and which will probably also outlast most of the Members of this House.
In that sense, we all have to recognise how small a part we play in the bigger overall process.
Her report contributes towards a better and more specific Environment Action Programme.
My second point concerns international cooperation.
One of the amendments is asking the Commission to consult Parliament before and after the event.
That does happen, but does it also happen in the case of conferences of the international airline organisations, for example?
I would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs; in my opinion the work was carried out well.
There were actually two choices after I decided to say 'yes' to the question in the hearing about whether I wanted to present a sixth Environment Action Programme: either the choice of being criticised for being too ambitious and thus unrealistic, or being too detailed and thus not visionary enough.
I wanted to make a short programme: it should have been shorter, but guess what would have happened then?
I wanted to point out what is necessary to mobilise, on a very broad scale, all different stake-holders in society, and to mention the actions necessary to meet the objectives set in this programme to show that, during a period of ten years, these kinds of actions are necessary.
We have the problem that this is a codecision procedure, so we have a difference between the first and second part and I do not know how to deal with that.
It is a pity that it exists, because you need to see the full text to understand the way we think about these issues: so that is partly an explanation of the problems we experience.
We do not have the competence, or the resources - it has to be up to the Member States to carry this out - but it is a very important issue and I want to underline that.
The setting of targets should be seen as part of the process, getting results by involving stake-holders, because we do not have many specific proposals for these targets and timetables.
Of course, we could have used concepts such as 'ecological footprint' or 'factor 4' or 'factor 10', but then the programme would have been slightly different.
It must be based on sound science and facts and it must be achievable and viable.
I welcome the inclusion of an Article that defines thematic strategies and I can support the spirit, if not the letter, of Amendment No 66, because a thematic strategy may be a framework directive, but it could also be a combination of a directive and other actions.
There is also this question about timetables and again we must remember that this is a strategic programme that lays down the priorities for the next 10 years, not a comprehensive work programme.
The Commission will produce the necessary proposals, but they need to be of good quality and it is also important to underline that.
We cannot accept those amendments that seek to bind the Commission to producing proposals by set dates, for example, Amendments Nos 49, 76, 85, 123, 189, 198.
I will not comment on all the amendments, because we have already left a note with our comments, but urban areas need to be stressed more and we welcome the spirit of Amendment No 207.
Of the 297 amendments being proposed, the Commission actually supports more than half in full, or in part, or in principle, but we cannot accept 145.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The idea behind environmental impact assessments for plans and programmes is an old one.
The Commission did not give up, stating in the Fifth Environment Action Programme that an impact statement for policy areas, plans and programmes is necessary to achieve sustainable development.
In 1997 the Commission put forward a new, amended proposal which no longer covered policy areas.
Conciliation on this matter started in October 2000 and ended in Strasbourg on 14 March 2001.
All the main demands advanced by Parliament at the two previous readings have been incorporated by the Council.
In this connection, extending the scope of the directive to a whole raft of plans and programmes co-financed by the Union represents a great step forwards.
Without going into detail, Article 3 of the text that has been approved clearly confirms the principle that all plans and programmes with possible significant effects on the environment are subject to an environmental assessment.
Thanks to the climate of cooperation established within the committee, to which the rapporteur contributed decisively, other important results have also been achieved, such as a more precise definition of what is meant by 'public consultation' and a more specific hierarchical structuring of the various processes, in such a way as to avoid any risk of unnecessary overload for local administrations.
The compromise now arrived at in the Conciliation Committee concerning the assessment of the environmental impact of certain Parliamentary programmes is therefore also an important building block in the European Union' s environmental policy.
If environmental impact assessments serve only to highlight possible dangers in one country but the same results of the assessment may result in the measures in question being banned in another, we can hardly speak of the arrangement as being appropriate for an internal market.
It is indeed an important new instrument that will strengthen the integration of the environmental considerations into decision-making and I particularly welcome the agreement of the Consultation Committee on a joint text confirmed on 21 March.
Some significant improvements have been made from the common position to the final directive, some have entered the directive, such as the introduction of monitoring or the strengthening of provisions on the quality of the environmental report.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, noise is one of the key environmental issues.
The Council of Ministers of the Internal Market have neglected the noise aspect enormously.
That is why the European Parliament decided at second reading to try to reduce the noise of car tyres by two decibels.
The common position was so weak that 70% of the cars already comply with the new noise standards, at least in northern Europe.
A hefty noise reduction cannot only be achieved by including noise-reducing tyres in a European standard, but also by using noise-reducing asphalt.
This being the case, the noise generated by road traffic can then be reduced by five decibels.
Even in my own country, the Netherlands, where 40% of the population complain about traffic noise, a pilot project is running, involving noise-reducing asphalt, which produces a reduction by ten decibels.
I hope that in its new proposals, the European Commission will not only consider noise-reducing tyres, but will also look into noise-reducing asphalt, for the noise of traffic is a thorn in the side of an increasing number of people.
Thank you, Mr Lange.
Other steps will follow to further improve the protection of the environment and the road safety aspects of tyres.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
It deals with the financial regulation of the European Union, the reworking of the financial agreement and obviously accompanies the reform proper of our Union and of our Commission, following the resignation of the Commission, following the report by the Wise Men, following the recommendations which the Committee of Wise Men made and which the European Parliament and our relevant parliamentary committees, especially the Committee on Budgetary Control, accepted in good faith.
So it is in the wake of this recommendation that our committees, both the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets subscribed to the thinking of the European Commission and this is one of the points which I want to stress because I shall concentrate in the second part of my speech on the proposed amendments which appear to me to have no bearing whatsoever on the subject.
So, Commissioner, we followed your lead.
We retained the specific rule in the financial regulation in toto with a quarrel which we settled thus.
We think it is better to keep it in the financial regulation as a legislative instrument.
Its Kramer versus Kramer.
So this is want I wanted to highlight - and I have taken several minutes to do so - because there is something unhealthy here, although some of the amendments are, shall we say, more than honourable and a group of 233 members could have represented the amendments on someone else's behalf.
When I see my chair presenting amendments against my report, in her own name, and against her committee, then I think that there are lessons to be learned.
If you do not agree with your committee, you have to draw your own conclusions and perhaps - why not - think about resigning from a position if that position does not suit a man or women in politics who wants to more power, which is all well and good but then they should resign their position (you cannot umpire and play in the match).
So I urgently recommend that we follow the line taken in my report and by Mr van Hulten and reject this attempt to backtrack, which has no place in our debate, although we shall still have a great deal to discuss.
Mr President, I will speak on behalf of the Budgetary Control Committee and also on behalf of the Socialist Group.
I would like to begin by thanking Mr Dell'Alba for the excellent cooperation we have had on the Financial Regulation and all the colleagues that have worked with us in the different groups.
These proposals today are the most sweeping changes to the Community's financial rules in 21 years.
The second and fundamental principle is that any retention of ex ante control runs up against a crucial objection that de facto if not de jure, it displaces responsibility for financial irregularity from the person actually managing expenditure onto the person approving it.
The only possibility of doing so effectively is to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution under our rules of procedures.
Discussion on Article 24 showed that the Council does not pay the slightest attention to Parliament's views, even though the President of the Budgets Committee is here today, and that is particularly surprising coming from the Swedish Presidency.
I have been approached in recent weeks by a number of national governments asking us to proceed with our vote without delay.
I support the case for speedy reform, but on an issue as important as this - financial rules which could with us for the next 21 years - we must refuse to let Parliament's legitimate expectations to negotiate be ignored by an arrogant Council.
Thank you, Mr van Hulten.
However the external budget also requires transparency, because our external budget is constantly exposed to corruption.
First, it includes the basic priorities put forward by the European Parliament and, secondly, it includes many of the comments and proposals made by the Court of Auditors.
All of these issues were addressed in the same article of the Treaty, which stipulates the same procedures for all of them, but this does not mean that they should necessarily be dealt with in the same regulatory texts.
The fact that their approval requires unanimity in the Council makes changing them even more difficult.
Perhaps these reasons explain why this process has been dragging on since July 1996, when the Commission presented its first proposal for recasting the Financial Regulation.
We hope that the Commission will devote the necessary attention to this in its future proposals.
By the same token, we Socialists consider it to be a point of honour that this Parliament' s political groups fully comply with all of the procedures that we approve in this Chamber for the Community expenditure of other institutions.
In these circumstances, all we can do is postpone delivering Parliament' s final statement on its position.
I wish to conclude by congratulating our rapporteurs, Gianfranco Dell'Alba and Michiel van Hulten, who have produced an excellent piece of work, and we wish to see this work continue in the same climate of cooperation in which it has been undertaken until now.
Its most important objective is to improve the efficiency of administration, clarify personal responsibility and speed up the movement of funds.
Finally, I would like to present some details that are important to my group.
The Commission has put forward a proposal for a new Financial Regulation based on the principles of decentralised responsibility and transparency.
Firstly, the Commission' s most recent report on combating fraud in the year 2000 showed a massive increase in fraud and irregularities compared to the previous year.
Mr President, I too have read the report recently published by the European Commission on the fight against fraud.
The Commission and rapporteurs want to abandon centralised, independent ex ante control.
The option of independent ex ante control must continue to exist.
I would therefore call on my fellow MEPs to support our amendments in this connection, so as to avoid the abolition of ex ante control.
In any event, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that we should be pleased, firstly because we are dealing with the first broad legislative proposal on the financial regulation of the Union, which runs in partnership with the administrative reform of management and human resources procedures and which must be the undeniable political objectives of Parliament and the Commission.
It was decided - correctly, in my view - not to correct the defects in the legislative framework employed until now and, instead, to implement a new administrative culture on control and spending efficiency in the quest for the common objective of the better and more transparent management of public money.
The rules on decision-making in this field, however, show very little political logic.
We should therefore be pleased with the strategy which the rapporteur is suggesting: to vote for amendments which reflect good work and a good departure point for the discussion of the more delicate aspects of the proposal, and to force the Council to take account of the opinion of the European Parliament when the Commission presents its amended proposal.
During the desirable and possible interinstitutional dialogue, we must try to negotiate a financial regulation which is intended to be permanent, which substantially takes account of this Parliament' s often repeated priorities in this field.
With regard to the information which Parliament requires for the purposes of the discharge of the budget - and I would ask you to be benevolent, Mr President - I believe that the Commission' s position is coherent insofar as it respects the basic elements of the framework Interinstitutional Agreement on the application of Article 206 of the Treaty.
I believe that in this field we can and must agree a text based on a consensus in the future, safeguarding the principles which are essential to this Parliament, such as human rights, fundamental freedoms and non-interference in sub judice procedures.
Mr President, for an organisation with an expenditure in excess of EUR 92 billion the Financial Regulation is almost the most important legal basis for ensuring careful use of European money and preventing abuse so far as possible.
The financial controller is also anchored in the Treaty.
It seems to me that the Commission' s reform efforts will in this instance result in financial responsibility being passed to and fro like in a marshalling yard until in the end nobody knows what track it is on.
The Financial Regulation should make for clarity, transparency and comprehensibility in the implementation of the budget.
Mr President, honourable Members, on 26 July last year the Commission proposed a thorough revision of the financial Bible that is the Financial Regulation, with fundamental provisions for all financial management.
I should like to stress in particular how valuable it is that Parliament supports this tight, this ambitious timetable, namely to have a new Financial Regulation available by 2002 if at all possible, and thanks to your work we are making good progress.
You know the proposal that the Commission presented for the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice.
The results of the consultation with Council, European Parliament and Court of Auditors show a high degree of agreement in many areas.
I should like to begin by going over a few basic principles once again.
All the principles and essential provisions for financial management are to be combined in a single legal instrument.
The first section sets out more rational rules for nearly all fields covered by the present Financial Regulation.
Here on this point we are unable to go along with Parliament' s amendments, which propose that such negative expenditure in the agricultural sector be considered other general revenue, because that would in fact have very serious consequences in that agricultural expenditure would then have to be cut in proportion to the financial perspective.
In order to achieve a more rigorous execution it is therefore proposed that global commitments should be processed by 31 December of the financial year n+1 except for the implementation of financial conventions in connection with external policies.
Payments are not checked by centralised ex ante controls here in Brussels but by the payment offices in the Member States.
The question of whether we want to continue having centralised ex ante controls or not and the statistics from the Member States are completely unrelated because ex ante controls do not take place there but in the Member States.
I should like to say the following on this point: regarding customs revenue you suggest in the amendments that the portion of administrative appropriations that can be retained in the Member States be shown as expenditure in the budget.
I therefore intend, at next week' s ECOFIN Council on 5 June, to invite the Presidency to a quadrilogue together with the European Parliament, the Court of Auditors and the Commission so that we can agree in a quadrilogue - a new coinage - on how to proceed, but above all so that we can discuss the content.
The meeting should then be held as soon as possible.
The Commission would like to present its revised proposal in September in the light of further developments and hopefully of further agreement.
Despite being unable to comment on the substance, I would venture to refer to what the Council said earlier, namely that we are extremely keen for a decision on the new Financial Regulation to be made as quickly as possible.
I would like to thank her for what she has told us, and for her criticism of our report, which also goes a little way towards substantiating why we want to keep this strategy.
When you spoke of negative expenditure and negative revenue, you criticised our proposal by saying that our amendments were going to create a sort of generalised revenue, but I think that you are mistaken.
Mr President, the Council is often asked to intervene during debates in Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
We are talking about around 42,000 people a year.
The question is whether the EU should legislate on safety belts and child safety in cars.
My answer is yes.
People travel in private cars, but also in commercial vehicles.
However, we propose six amendments.
We also propose that rural buses used in city traffic - not particularly common, but it happens - should not be covered by the requirement for compulsory use.
In my opinion, the question of the compulsory wearing of safety belts has a crucial part to play.
In general, I am very much in agreement with the Commission' s proposal for improving the safety of drivers and passengers.
I am thinking of the use of restraint systems for very small children.
All in all I should like to congratulate the rapporteur most sincerely on this report, which I think is also a very balanced one, and I can already assure you today that my group will agree to this report.
Tremendous progress has been made in road traffic safety.
It is irresponsible to allow children under three years of age to be carried on the back seats of cars without anything to hold them or in child seats on the passenger seat without switching off the airbag.
The proposal embodied in six amendments tabled by the European Parliament to amend the directive in question will, among other things, make for technically safer solutions and above all ones that are easier for the consumer to use.
The proposed directive therefore eliminates the exceptions which appeared in the original directive, since they were conceived of in different circumstances and allowed the use of adult safety belts in the absence of a child restraint system.
The proposed directive, as well as protecting children in cars, will help to reduce the number of deaths and serious injuries resulting from accidents in coaches, minibuses and lorries, by making the use of safety belts compulsory for drivers and passengers when those safety belts are supplied.
The correct use of safety belts and child restraint systems is one of the most important measures being proposed by the Commission in the field of road safety.
Both you in Parliament and the Council have supported this proposal by firmly backing the Commission' s working programme on road safety priorities in the Union, which include reporting on, detailing and classifying the measures to be adopted, making the use of safety belts and child restraint systems one of the fundamental priorities for road safety.
While the Commission acknowledges that there have been problems with installing some systems in certain vehicles, the fact is that the amendment would breach the rules on the internal market and establishment as well as the directive proposed in the latest international standard on child restraint systems.
Lastly, there are two amendments which would force the Commission to adopt measures which it has already planned to take.
The Commission would suggest that these two amendments do not appear in the legislative text, but that they be included in the preamble, since we accept that they are of interest and importance for the future.
I repeat that, with the exception of Amendment No 4, which we must reject, we accept all the others, bearing in mind the comments I have made on Amendment No 1 and Amendment No 6(2), which instead of appearing in the legislative articles, would simply appear in the preamble to the final text.
Precisely for this reason, and not only on this specific issue, but taking account of all the requirements of road safety, we are going to make a proposal on which we are working with Commissioner Vitorino to try to harmonise the effective application by the different Member States of the controls and also the penalties in this field.
Parliament thanks the Commission.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
