Conditions for access to the natural gas transmission networks - Internal market in natural gas - European strategic energy technology plan (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the report by Atanas Paparizov, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1775/2005 on conditions for access to the natural gas transmission networks - C6-0319/2007 -, the report by Romano Maria La Russa, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2003/55/EC concerning common rules for the internal market in natural gas - C6-0317/2007 -, and the report by Jerzy Buzek, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the European strategic energy technology plan.
The first is ensuring a safe, sustainable, competitive supply via an effective, operational and interconnected network.
This option implies significant adjustments to guarantee the independence of the transmission operators in terms of decision-making, of course, but also financing.
Special attention was paid in this respect to system development and the guarantee of a compromise that does not discriminate between system operators.
We must find a pragmatic solution that is adapted to each case.
The next stage, ladies and gentlemen, will be the confirmation of these general elements through the adoption of a political agreement on 10 October at the Energy Council, followed by the transmission of the common position in November or December.
In conclusion, I wish to thank the Commission and the rapporteur for the work they have done until now and I hope that our positions on the internal energy market will converge at second reading.
Last month this House discussed electricity and the Agency.
Let me explain why gas market liberalisation is as essential as electricity market liberalisation for a competitive, sustainable and secure energy supply in the European Union.
The best way to guarantee a secure gas supply to the EU is by having one internal market for 500 million consumers.
These elements are essential in the implementation of market opening and should be strengthened.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I should like to say a few words on our joint enterprise - the SET Plan.
The targets we have set for Europe for 2020 are an important milestone, but they are no more than that.
To fulfil our promises we will need new knowledge and new tools.
We agree that the capacity of the European research base has to be enlarged, strengthened and freed up to work in a much more dynamic and transnational manner.
We agree on the need for more resources, public and private.
You know my ambitions for the EU research policy and the development of the European Research Area.
The SET Plan and the development of our research policy go hand in hand.
I believe that the SET Plan will start a process that will act as a model for the organisation of research and innovation activities within Europe, a process that will change the way we do research in Europe and one that will ultimately change Europe.
Their President, Matthias Kleiner, said something memorable: A vision without action is a daydream; action without a vision is a nightmare.
I am very much encouraged by what Commissioner Piebalgs has said about his attitude to our proposals on the Agency and I believe that we can found, within the principles of the Meroni case and within the proposals of the Parliament, an Agency that will be viable - an Agency that will be parallel to the efforts of the Commission in the development of the market.
At the same time, I am very much encouraged by what happened on 6 June in the Council and I believe that a good basis for compromise has been found.
If we are to attain the goal of reducing our energy dependence, we need a single energy market and a single integrated network.
I therefore urge colleagues to support the amendments tabled by myself, and by other colleagues from various political groups, concerning the possibility of combining the various transport operators into one single European network company, in order to ensure that there is a single legislative framework and to guarantee market access for all operators, thereby overcoming the 'unbundling yes; ownership unbundling no' hurdle.
It is for us, ladies and gentlemen, to decide whether we want tomorrow to be remembered as a key moment in the creation of a single integrated energy market, which Europe needs in order to confront the challenges of the next millennium, or whether, on the other hand, it will mark the umpteenth climb-down, the result of a timid, cowardly reform effort which will basically be postponed until the next legislative term.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I was rather surprised when I read that both the SET Plan and our energy package were going to be in the same programme as a block.
It is as if one were to talk about human rights and human diseases in a block because they are both 'human', which is not a very good idea.
But seeing both Commissioners here, I am very glad at this decision, because the SET Plan is very important for the European Union and needs strong support from some Commissioners and from the whole Commission.
This means that nuclear power is also included.
As regards support for sustainable technologies in the power generation sector, this was never in doubt in Parliament.
In this report I proposed specific amounts of funding to support new technologies.
We in the ECON Committee reached our decision very coherently and by a large majority.
Our report places much greater emphasis on the question of how suitable the national approval procedures really are, realistically, when it comes to ensuring future progress in the field of cross-border networks, network development and network investment.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, on principle the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety welcomes the European Strategic Energy Technology Plan in that it helps configure a common energy market and support for the Lisbon Treaty, and especially assists with the fight against climate change.
To this end, we would like a hierarchy to be created between EIIs, with efforts being focused on those with greater potential to reduce emissions in the short term, a reduction of 20% by 2020, obviously without neglecting measures in the longer term with a view to fulfilling the objectives set for 2050.
We have argued that it is important for the European network of transport system administrators to hold talks with the bodies involved and especially with consumers and consumer associations, as these are important involved bodies in the extent to which they are also the end domestic users.
The market for energy has to be able to operate at European level mainly in order to guarantee the supply of energy to end-users at market prices.
If the so-called third or fourth way, as proposed by the Council, can bring about a working market, then of course that is fine too.
I hope that both the Commission and the Council can support this so that we will at least have an alternative ready in a few years' time.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the energy package will live on in my memory as one that was not properly conducted in every detail, for we were rushed through it.
I would say this now here in this debate and at this particular time.
I hope that it all does not catch up with us one day.
I hope that at the end of the day we really will find a solution to the problems facing us, namely how we acquire more investment and obtain more reasonable prices and how we achieve security of supply in the European energy sector.
I am therefore thankful that we have made some headway on the gas directive, that we have moved a little further towards a compromise, that we have been more discriminating and have noticed that electricity and gas are different, that there is no longer a one-fits-all solution.
I am pleased that in June the Council demonstrated, through its new proposal, that even in such difficult situations we are able to rise above national boundaries and differences of opinion so as to come up with solutions.
I would hope that what we have now agreed on gas will be revised slightly tomorrow and will move a bit closer to the compromise that has already been found in the Council.
Perhaps we should also take this as a benchmark for the electricity market.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to congratulate the three rapporteurs most sincerely for their excellent work.
It is important that we should also have derogations, such as those that apply to any major investments where a lot of capital is involved and where we are still unable to say whether this will really lead to a solution, such as in the case of the Nabucco project.
Here we also have to be sufficiently flexible.
That is especially important.
I hope that a majority in this House will support our amendments tomorrow.
When I look at what the Commission and the Commission President last said on this subject it would be important if we had a clear declaration in this area, firstly on having transparent information for consumers, which is not always the case, secondly on setting up a help-line for network users, so that they too can request information, thirdly on an independent entry point for complaints, for there are always complaints - and each of us knows of such cases, even if we were not personally affected, which is also quite important - and fourthly on the protection of vulnerable customers, especially pensioners, the handicapped and others.
These are all real concerns, particularly in view of the rising energy prices.
However, the European Commission and Parliament should be taking a lead by showing that such an option is possible and probably also beneficial if we are also to protect the social interests of consumers at a time of such high energy prices.
However, some areas in the EU do not even have a regional gas market.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Thank you, Mr President.
I am not truly convinced by the agreement reached in the Council on 6 July inasmuch as existing owners, principally Gazprom and the companies associated with it, will not have to partition off their property rights until other connections emerge in these states.
When it comes to gas we have to distinguish between two markets.
To do this we need a stable investment policy that also takes the gas supplier countries into consideration.
For this we need long-term contracts and we must give European companies the opportunity to invest in pipelines in order to transport this gas to Europe.
What we would need - and with a bit more effort from everyone, and particularly from the national governments - is a unified European policy on gas that allows the EU's 27 voices to take the same line at international level.
Then we have the LNG market, which means the European gas market.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FI) Mr President, Commissioners, the objective of the report before us for discussion is the liberalisation of energy markets, this time for gas.
The majority of Parliament is calling for the separation or 'unbundling' of production and network ownership in connection with the liberalisation of the electricity markets.
Unbundling of ownership does not by any means guarantee a reduction in consumer prices.
In liberalising the markets, I would like to remind you again of the situation in the United States.
According to calculations by the NGO Public Citizen, in the 14 states where the price of electricity is not regulated, it is 52 per cent higher than in the 36 states where it is regulated.
I challenge that, not least because almost all natural gas has to be imported.
Coal can be much more efficiently burned these days, releasing much less CO2 than previous methods.
And all that is under our feet.
Further, there is nuclear power for electricity.
Of course we need natural gas, not least for domestic use, but the thrust of these reports is for the supply of gas to the EU to be controlled by the EU itself, by way of regulation.
In short, it is all about control.
Lastly, another aspect worthy of note in view of its huge social importance is the strengthening of protection for users at national level: more vulnerable users and those living in disadvantaged or remote areas and regions.
I wish to let it know that without this concept its alternative will not constitute a genuine alternative to ownership unbundling, but rather a legal formula allowing certain Member States to be more equal than others in terms of opening up their markets.
We must also make some mention of human resources, not only because they must be increased, but because the Plan also involves other aspects such as training, mobility and coordination.
The report enhances research and basic sciences that are essential for progress to be made in energy technology, and calls for the private sector to invest more in research and assume greater risks to make the EU a frontrunner in this sector.
We are establishing a new energy research agenda for Europe, which is much needed in view of the challenges we shall be facing in the next decade.
The Commission believes that Europe should lower the costs of clean energy and put industry at the forefront of the low-carbon technology sector.
This question of financing is also raised in regard to the 12 CCS projects.
While I believe this technology might help industry to reduce CO2 emissions, I cannot accept that European taxpayers' money be used to finance the development of a CCS infrastructure that will be someone's business in the end.
As a Liberal, I believe we have to let the market function and develop, if needed, a fair partnership with the industry. (PL) Mr President, the European Union's approach to energy issues is full of inconsistencies.
The rapporteur deserves our praise for this.
The European Union must show itself to be more effective in this regard and cannot allow the privilege of monopoly access to raw materials or a majority shareholding to decide the situation in the market.
For this reason access to gas distribution networks, research into new technologies and new agencies are useful suggestions.
This means that on a global level nuclear energy has made little or no contribution to date.
It only plays a role in part of Europe and in North America, where it figures largely.
The US, which was so conspicuous in Hokkaido, has now - thanks to departing President Bush - pledged USD 18 million to promote two or three reactor projects.
If we look around elsewhere we see that the Belene plant will be built for less, though Bulgaria wants EUR 600 million from Brussels to put the scheme into practice.
Today's report of yet another accident at the Paks nuclear power station in Hungary simply reaffirms my opinion.
Consequently, we need to start supporting research and development and, most importantly, resolve all the links in the energy chain, such as production, transmission, distribution and consumption.
I believe that in this way we will manage to prevent increasing unilateral dependency on gas supplies from Russia, and at the same time invest in the distribution and security of natural gas supplies. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy is the resource of the future and for that reason it is important that we take a long-term view when debating the subject of Europe's energy supply.
It would be useful if this French regulator were given a say in the activities of the regulators in the other 26 countries.
A strategic energy technology programme really is needed, and I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that energy efficiency has been included.
However, the change in the attitudes of citizens is clear, and cooperation is now needed from the Community, the Union, its Member States and industry at the same time as we have to prevent developing economies from spoiling our living conditions by polluting them.
We must improve cooperation with the United States in the field of the environment and at the same time we must conclude an energy cooperation agreement with Russia.
It is therefore important to consider consumers, industrial development and cooperation with the United States and Russia. (FR) Mr President, I would like to highlight two elements in relation to the gas market.
The first concerns long-term contracts.
It gives us a long-term view of the market and thus ensures that it operates in a more stable and efficient manner.
The second concerns the security of systems and, above all, the security of gas supply.
The question of ownership is vital in relation to the configuration of the European model, characterised by high dependence on producing countries, which are outside the European Union.
I would like to reassure my colleague Claude Turmes in this respect.
This directive on the gas market does not seek to protect national historical operators but to provide them with the opportunity to be Europe's great energy champions. (GA) Mr President, investing in new and cleaner technologies must be a central element of EU strategies to ensure that we can reach the EU target of 25% of energy supplies coming from the renewable sector.
The European Union needs to have a progressive neighbourhood policy in place which will ensure that we can protect and secure our energy needs into the future. (FR) Mr President, when it comes to gas and to energy in general, we are faced with two radically opposed approaches.
The liberal approach consists of treating gas and its supply as a good and a service just like any other, giving rise to uncontrolled competition and totally excessive dismantlement of integrated public service companies.
That would result in a real Europe of energy based on cooperation and the general interest.
There is, of course, a difference between the electrical energy sector and the gas sector.
From Russia alone we import 40% of total gas imports, and some Member Countries import all their gas, which means their dependency on imports is 100%.
A well-trained labour force is also required in order to make use of the opportunities available within the SET programme.
Undoubtedly, there is quite a difference between the electricity and gas markets, and we should distinguish between them in our documents, as was rightfully done by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
There is no doubt that the Kremlin is prepared to maintain and increase its authority in the EU gas supply sector.
The only way we can resist this dictatorship is through solidarity in our actions and the creation of a common EU energy system as well as by supporting and implementing the alternative and, of course, nuclear energy projects.
The case for this is strengthened by the fact that seven EU Member States have in fact made this move.
They need to prepare for the integration of the EU gas market. (PT) Mr President, the fundamental point that we are discussing here is the liberalisation of the natural gas market by putting pressure on the Member States to speed up the process of privatising what is still public.
To achieve this more rapidly, the supporters of the proposal are insisting on ownership unbundling of the networks, without any concern for energy security.
It is clear that the profits of economic groups in the electricity sector have increased, but that fuel poverty has also increased, in other words more people and families are struggling to access energy.
Mr President, whatever we talk about, whether environmental or security issues, climate change or European competitiveness, the energy markets and how they function in the future are crucial.
There must be no delays, because we need to have these markets functioning with a new legislation in place.
We can ask ourselves whether the European energy markets are functioning as well as they should.
There is a difference between the electricity market and the gas market.
That is why the difference in the legislation which we are talking about - namely that we have full ownership unbundling on electricity and this scheme that the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy decided on in Parliament - is acceptable.
The second challenge is the one our fellow citizens are bringing to our attention: price.
I would first of all like to thank my colleagues in the ITRE Committee, who in their wisdom adopted the Vidal-Quadras/Laperrouze compromise last month.
I firmly believe that this consensual approach allowing each of our Member States to make the necessary improvements to their gas markets, in accordance with their traditions, will be a useful basis for discussion with the Council, and I would like to call on my colleagues to confirm that basis.
Of course, when prices are higher awareness of the delicate nature of climate change is heightened.
However, we must respond to these three challenges, the ecological dimension and the dimension of security of supply, and we must therefore chose the best option, which is the third. (BG) I call upon the Commission to take into account the potential of the new member-states, including Bulgaria, in the development and application of new energy technologies.
The Commission should introduce mechanisms in support of research so that the objectives for 2020 could be achieved and greenhouse gases be reduced by 60 to 80 per cent by 2050.
These objectives, as well as the renewable sources, are achievable only through coordinated use of the entire potential for innovations of the European Union.
I appeal for a better interaction between member-states in the development of new energy technologies.
The variety of national rules and technical specifications partition the market and hinder industrial investments in risk technologies.
I would first of all like to thank the European Commission and the Members for this interesting debate and for all the work that has been done on this 'internal energy market' package.
Consensus has yet to be reached on a number of points, notably the application of effective separation not only with regard to gas, since our positions there are already quite similar, but also with regard to electricity.
The French Presidency will firm up the general framework adopted on 6 June at the Energy Council on 10 October.
I hope that our joint efforts will be rewarded with a constructive spirit and a desire for compromise among all our institutions. (CS) Mr President, Commissioners, I would first of all like to thank all the rapporteurs involved in our debate for their efforts.
In contrast, natural gas suppliers in most of the new Member States have almost a monopoly.
Paradoxically, these countries may in the end suffer as a result of the liberalisation package because the proposed legislation will weaken the position of transmission operators who have contracts with producers with monopolies.
I support market liberalisation, but when it comes to natural gas, in most of the new Member States we must first do away with the market monopolies and introduce more suppliers; only then can we proceed (for example) with ownership unbundling without any risks.
It would be nice if the sweeping European gestures and statements about energy research were accompanied by the corresponding budgetary sources. (PL) Mr President, every plan should include decisions concerning its situation both in time and in space, but the present Commission decisions are slowing down implementation of earlier plans, for example, plans for cogeneration investments are being held back by the market, as it is not worth converting heat-generation plants into efficient heat and power plants burdened by emission charges and network problems.
Furthermore, the Commission has divided EU countries into the better ones, which can increase their emissions, and worse ones, which have to reduce them.
These latter ones are, of course, principally the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
The Paparizov report, which we are debating today, concludes that there is a need for increased cooperation between system operators and for increased investment in the gas market.
The outcome of the votes in committee has yielded something of what we need, but we still have many steps to take before we get a functionally efficient and environmentally friendly energy market in Europe. (RO) I would like to thank the Rapporteurs for the long-term strategic approach of the issue of natural gas in the European Union and the research in the field of energy.
In 2006, the European Union's imported gas amounted to 62%, and its demand and dependence on the gas import shall increase to 80% in 2030.
I believe three elements in the Rapporteurs' proposals are essential.
The regional dimension is the suitable framework to establish common rules and principles, as well as to ensure the gas sector coordination and transparency.
Secondly, it is essential to expand the implementation of such norms to third country companies activating in the field of energy in the European Union.
And finally, I fully support the idea to consolidate the sector of scientific research in the field of energy, as a key element of the given long-term policy. (FR) Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, our objective must be to establish non-discriminatory rules for determining the conditions for accessing gas transmission systems, liquefaction facilities and storage facilities.
The elements of this new European legislation are fundamental for the citizens at a time when we are experiencing an explosion in energy prices.
This pressing challenge requires a new definition of the European Strategic Energy Technology Plan based on two redefined pillars: ensuring better, cleaner production with regard to CO2 emissions through innovative technologies; and using less by decreasing energy use in all its forms and by promoting all the solutions.
This basic good sense is unfortunately not sufficiently recognised in our major policies and measures to reduce energy use are not given adequate support in the SET-Plan or in the EU's major structural policies.
Priority projects, such as Nabucco, acknowledged by the European Council as well, will diversify the European Union's natural gas supply sources and they must be achieved.
I consider it essential that the public service obligations and the minimum common standards resulting thereof be better consolidated in order to guarantee the fact that the gas services can be accessible to the population and small and medium-sized enterprises. (RO) Today, we debate on three important reports for the European Union energy policy, reports that contain references to the energy technology, energy safety and fighting energy poverty as essential factors for achieving the objectives regarding energy and climate change.
The rapid implementation of these reports will develop a more efficient and transparent internal market with direct effects in increasing competitiveness, transparency of prices at the end user and protection of consumer rights.
Today, it is time that the Commission and the Council explicitly and concretely encourage the diversification of supply sources and the development of new gas storage facilities in order to ensure the Union's energy independence and safety.
In the end, I would like to congratulate our three colleagues for the manner in which they have managed the drafting of reports. (PL) Mr President, the purpose of the regulations we are discussing today is to make it easier to integrate the gas markets of individual markets and to increase executive monitoring at a European level.
The gas market should be considered separately from the electricity market because of the European Union's considerable dependence on imports.
Ownership unbundling could be an extremely useful instrument for guaranteeing the creation of a unified gas market in the European Union and for the creation of real competition in the EU energy market and, in practice, could lead to a reduction, or at least a stabilisation, of energy prices.
However, we should also be cautious.
The liberalisation process requires concrete structural changes, for which not all European Union countries are prepared.
Europe needs an energy model that does not just ensure that there is competition in regional markets and in the common European market, but also guarantees protection for the end user, and, first and foremost, guarantees energy security.
Today energy is almost synonymous with foreign policy and tends to relegate even climate change to a secondary position.
Therefore Europe urgently needs to overhaul the current arrangements, push decisively for a single energy market and start investing massively in research on alternative sources of energy.
For Europe this is simply a matter of survival. (RO) I would like to congratulate the three Rapporteurs and, at the same time, to say that Romania has acted in full compliance with the requirements of the single natural gas market, separating completely, including from the point of view of ownership, the transport activity from the natural gas production and distribution activity.
Unfortunately, in the European Union, we do not have a competitive single natural gas market yet and some Member States are very reluctant to separate the production activity from the distribution activity.
Measures aimed at ownership unbundling in the natural gas market will certainly improve competition and the quality of services supplied.
I therefore wish to express my warmest thanks to Mr Buzek, since the time factor prevented me from doing so before. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important, as far as gas supplies are concerned, to ensure that these operations are embedded in an appropriate competitive environment.
On one hand renewable energies have a major role to play here, while on the other natural gas does of course provide competition for renewables.
That requires us to take much faster action and to be more determined.
The technology plan is only the starting point.
One of the measures that I have promised to my colleagues and also here in Parliament is a communication on the financing of low-carbon energy sources, but this is not the only one.
I believe - at least this is my opinion and it was said in the debate - we really need to use the ideas that we have.
We do not have too much oil left in the soil in the European Union.
Commission's position on amendments by Parliament Paparizov report The Commission can accept the following amendments: 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16, 17, 25, 31, 39, 41, 43, 44.
The Commission can partially accept the following amendments: 1, 11, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 26, 27, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 46, 47, 49, 50, 51, 53.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 4, 7, 13, 15, 23, 28, 40, 42, 45, 48, 52, 54.
La Russa report The Commission can accept the following amendments: 2, 3, 7, 16, 20, 24, 27, 31, 32, 33, 34, 36, 40, 44, 50, 56, 60, 64, 73, 74, 87, 92, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 112, 120, 122, 124, 136, 140, 142.
The Commission can partially accept the following amendments: 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 17, 21, 23, 25, 26, 28, 29, 35, 45, 46, 48, 49, 51, 52, 53, 55, 61, 63, 64, 68, 69, 75, 76, 77, 78, 80, 81, 84, 85, 86, 88, 91, 93, 94, 95, 96, 104, 107, 111, 115, 117, 118, 119, 125, 127, 132, 135, 138, 139, 141, 143.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 1, 4, 10, 14, 15, 18, 19, 22, 30, 37, 38, 39, 41, 42, 43, 47, 54, 57, 58, 59, 62, 65, 66, 67, 70, 71, 72, 79, 82, 83, 89, 90, 97, 105, 106, 108, 109, 110, 113, 114, 116, 121, 123, 126, 128, 129, 130, 131, 133, 134, 137, 144, 145.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I was very much reassured by the debate and by what my colleagues have said in favour of rules, in favour of strong demands that may be made obligatory, in favour of a strong Agency.
What was said in the debate about the role of the different participants in the markets was also very important.
I would not be very happy to over-develop the control mechanisms within the different companies, so I believe the compromise that has been developed in the Council would be a basis that could be applicable both to gas and electricity and could open the way to speedier resolution of the Third Energy Package, because it contains a lot of new improvements both for consumers and concerning transparency.
I would just like to conclude by allaying the fears of Mr Zīle, who raised the problem of Gazprom and Russia.
Regarding consumers, I believe that I have argued in every speech I have made over the months, and in my report too, for transparency and help for consumers, naturally without forgetting operators, who also have their merits.
I give my thanks and congratulations to both Commissioners.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 9 July 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (PL) Mr President, Europe's fundamental weakness in its relations with Russia stems from the lack of a free and united energy market.
So far, the EU's failure to create a free-flowing and competitive energy market is, without doubt, being exploited by Russia.
Opening the European internal gas market to competition will lead to greater efficiency and a strengthening of consumer rights as well as national regulators.
We must stop the expansion of Russian companies in Europe and force Russia to respect mutuality in the treatment of investments in the energy sector.
I fully agree with the rapporteur that Member States should support integration in national markets and cooperation among network operators at both European and regional level.
in writing. - (HU) The leap in energy prices draws our attention more sharply than ever before to the lack of effective regulation in the energy market.
This is no different in the gas sector.
We feel that the document prepared by the European Commission is an appropriate first step in the direction of more effective regulation.
The new legislative package may contribute to the creation of real competition on the European market.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the defencelessness of some Member States even exceeds this severe level.
For fair competition in the common energy market, investors from third countries should be subject to the same criteria as regards ownership unbundling and independence as companies in Member States, which is something on which we should put very considerable emphasis.
By adopting the amendment on effective and efficient separation of activities, as a possible alternative to full ownership unbundling, we should be able to achieve a more balanced and, above all, proportionate text.
