rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since I have a few extra minutes, let me begin by thanking the Commission, the Secretariat of our Committee and the other rapporteurs.
No one doubts that the share of fossil fuels, which accounted for 79% of gross domestic fuel consumption in the European Union in 2004, will remain high in the foreseeable future.
This is a significant advantage, particularly in terms of the security of our energy supplies.
Nuclear plants account for more than 30% of power generation in Europe, and nuclear power has advantages that are undeniable, whatever our political views.
It comes as the last report from the European Parliament in the follow-up of the energy and climate change package from 10 January.
Europe has proven to be successful in setting a regulatory framework in support of low-carbon technologies.
I am also glad that the first meeting of the High Level Group on Nuclear Safety and Waste Management took place on 12 October.
The aim of the Nuclear Forum is to enlarge the debate on nuclear energy, and to involve all the relevant players.
For this reason, from the perspective of a citizen of such a country, I would like to point out that, as I said, Poland or the other countries in this geographical area will have to cover more ground than the countries of western Europe in modernising the power sector.
Taking climate change into account, the EU should become more involved in work on clean coal technology as the optimal solution for the natural environment, especially in those countries where the power sector in largely dependent on the use of coal.
The issue most talked about nowadays in this connection is that of climate change.
Not only do fossil energy sources contribute to global climate change, however; they also make Europe more dependent on external suppliers.
At the same time, however, these figures and others like them show that conventional energy sources are inevitably going to play a major role in Europe's energy supply in the decades ahead, even if renewable energies gain ground.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, energy is a crucial factor as regards market competitiveness as well as quality of life for EU inhabitants.
The competitiveness of the EU Member State's economies depends, among other factors, on better use of regional resources in the form of fossil fuels.
Poland has already reduced emissions by 32% since 1988 while, over the same period, the countries of the old EU have done considerably less.
The present figure for emissions per inhabitant in Poland stands at 7 tonnes per annum, while in the old EU countries this is up to two times higher.
Although we should fully recognise the importance of alternative energy sources and their possible dominating role in the future, we should nevertheless develop a down-to-earth approach to nuclear energy and face the fact that 30% of the energy produced in the EU is produced by nuclear power plants.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, speaking on behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group in this debate on conventional energy sources and energy technology, I would like to thank Herbert Reul for preparing a comprehensive report on this issue.
It is the fact that in Slovakia now, in 2007, the Italian ENEL company is planning to complete a nuclear plant that was developed in the Soviet Union before Chernobyl.
This also has an effect on the price of other fossil fuels.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur is right to make the point that conventional sources of energy will remain indispensable for several decades to come.
With oil at USD 90 a barrel, it is time for Ms Harms to recognise that nuclear power is the cheapest, safest, cleanest, most sustainable and most predictable base-load-generating technology available.
As stated in this report, our efforts should aim at developing new technologies which allow for energy production with less environmental impact, such as clean coal technology.
The developing countries account for 70% of growth in energy consumption, and China alone represents 30% of that growth.
The reserves of fossil fuels are therefore running out and are concentrated in fewer and fewer hands.
If I could mention some areas of action: we need intensive research, product development and new technologies, and we also need to change our behaviour.
Prices have risen by 50% in just a few years. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Reul's report is a very good and thorough report and I congratulate him on it.
The plan needs to address the necessary diversification of energy sources by 2020, 2030 and 2050 and it must also reflect the importance of resource use at regional level. (PL) Mr President, of the energy sources listed in the report, it is only coal, whether it be hard coal or brown coal, that is available in large amounts within the European Union.
At present it is not clear how successful we will be in developing production from renewable energy sources or from hydrogen batteries, but these too need energy supplies.
Europe can have a lead in this; we can be globally significant in the research potential that we have, but we must have real action.
It is an excellent and well-balanced report, which, in my opinion, is written in the spirit of Antoine de Saint Exupéry's words about our future: our task is not to foresee it, but to enable it.
Since there is an increasing need for energy on a global scale, the European Union cannot afford to completely eliminate fossil fuels since they play an important part in overall energy production although their reserves keep diminishing.
In spite of the fact that the European Union is on average relatively effective in producing energies from these conventional sources, some Member States could do still much more in the area of introducing and supporting new, more effective technologies and developing new, more effective cooperation units.
Another issue I want to concentrate on is nuclear energy.
To conclude, I would like to say that I appreciate that the work of the Commission shows a tangible tilt towards more a open and objective view and evaluation of the benefits of nuclear energy, resulting in initiatives such as the European Nuclear Energy Forum, the inaugural meeting of which will be held in Bratislava in November later this year, as mentioned in this House.
The idea that we can replace everything with energy from alternative sources is illusory.
In my country Bulgaria, Kozlodui Nuclear Power Plant acounted for 43 % of the total power generation in the country, contributing to the sustainable development of the economy in 2006.
Of course, these figures pertain to the period before the closing down of units three and four of the nuclear power plant on 31 December 2006.
All over the world, 31 reactors are under construction and others are in the planning phase.
Sustainable development, preservation of competitiveness in the broadest sense, true environmental protection and emission reductions are just some of these reasons.
It seems at last that by pursuing quotas and percentages we will not end up doing what a Czech proverb describes in a colourful way as 'throwing the baby out with the bath water'. (ES) Mr President, the own-initiative report we shall be voting on tomorrow is the third and final such report drafted by this House and concludes Parliament's response to the energy review submitted by the Commission at the beginning of the year.
Therefore, we must not temper efforts to research, develop and innovate in conventional sources since fulfilling our commitments in relation to climate change, security of supply and competitiveness involves achieving a more sustainable use of these sources.
The work of the European Union, including the High-level Group on Nuclear Safety and Waste Management and the existing Nuclear Energy Forum, will contribute to the incorporation of nuclear energy into the EU policies in a more objective manner. (DE) Mr President, necessary though it is to enact measures to combat climate change and promote renewables, it is extremely important that Parliament should also deal with the future of conventional energy sources.
We have 300 000 European jobs in coalmining alone.
The fact is that renewable energy sources will not be able to grow as quickly as we would wish.
The only way to avoid that threat in future is with a strategic energy mix which also includes coal and nuclear power. (ET) If climate change is to be brought under control it is important to reduce carbon emissions from combustion of fossil fuels to near zero.
However, we cannot spend decades waiting for research findings without doing anything else and therefore we must now concentrate on measures which must be implemented immediately, namely reducing CO2 emissions, energy-saving measures and a general transition to renewable sources of energy.
The vote of the ITRE committee has resulted in too great an emphasis on nuclear energy in the Reul report and there has been too little discussion of renewables.
However, in most Member States, renewable energy can meet neither our environmental targets, nor our accelerated energy demands, nor our need to remain competitive in global markets.
As responsible politicians, we must discard the dogmas of the past and recognise that all clean technologies have their role to play.
Europe and the Member States should make these objectives their political priority and the focus of their efforts to build a future energy policy. (RO) The gross energy production in the European Union is achieved based on various energy sources: 31% nuclear energy, 29% coal, 19% gas, 14% sources of renewable energy and 5% oil.
Romania produces 13.5% of its energy from oil, 15.3% from coal and coke and 5.9% is hydroelectric and nuclear-electrical energy.
The region has a strategic importance, not only for the transportation of hydrocarbons from the Caspian Sea region to the European Union, but also for the coal resources existing in Romania, Bulgaria, Turkey, Ukraine and Russia.
As long as coal is a source of energy, it is important to have the necessary investments in order to provide workplace safety. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs.
The Vidal-Quadras report has helped us formulate the internal market package.
The Thomsen report will have a huge influence on our proposals on renewables.
I can also promise that we will follow the vote on the Reul report very carefully, because the outcome of that report will influence the approach to CCS - first of all the legal proposal and also the report - and also our Strategic Energy Technology Plan and our future policy, as far as the Euratom Treaty gives us a mandate for nuclear energy.
It is definitely the CFSP that should lead our activities on non-proliferation.
First of all, Mochovce.
Slovenské Elektrárne has indeed notified its intention to construct a nuclear power plant.
The Commission, in accordance with Article 41 of the Euratom Treaty, will prepare an opinion, taking full account of all the challenges this decision poses.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 24 October.
