EC-Syria Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs De Keyser on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs containing the European Parliament's recommendation to the Council on the conclusion of a Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Syrian Arab Republic, of the other part.
The negotiations on this agreement started in 1996, before Syria withdrew from Lebanon.
They were difficult, but they nevertheless resulted in a much-revised draft that laid down, for example, the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism.
People in Lebanon and all over the world immediately pointed the finger at the government in Damascus.
An investigation, led initially by Mr Mehlis and now by Mr Brammertz, was carried out in situ, and Resolution 1559 called for the withdrawal of Syrian troops and secret services from Lebanon.
The Council will be the judge of that, but I, for my part, am in favour of dialogue and the Committee on Foreign Affairs supported me in this by a large majority.
As Europe closed its doors, Syria found other allies, notably Iran, which provided not only oil but also a war-like ideology that does nothing to promote peace in the Middle East.
Support for the reopening of dialogue with Syria regarding the association agreement forms part of this preventative strategy, because another conflict in this region could be even more devastating.
Syria will not break off from Iran in terms of trade, but its highest authorities claim to be prepared to distance themselves from Iran in terms of the Middle East peace process.
As Mrs De Keyser says in her report, Syria may have an important role to play in the Near and Middle East 'as a link between the parties in the peace process and a facilitator of a resolution of the regional conflict'.
For this reason, the Council too decided in August to authorise High Representative Javier Solana and the Finnish Presidency to be in contact with all relevant parties that may influence finding a solution to the crisis in Lebanon and the situation in the Middle East more generally.
Furthermore, Syria's relations with Iraq and Iran and its activities with regard to these countries have direct implications for the general situation in the Middle East.
Obviously, Syria must also act in accordance with the principles of international human rights.
Syria is an important actor in the Middle East.
After the conflict in Lebanon and in the new context of United Nations Security Council resolution 1701 (2006), it is indeed the right moment to reassess where we are with our current policy.
I believe that only on this basis, as the Commissioner said a moment ago, must we turn this list of good intentions into concrete actions, so that the European Union can give the green light to this important Association Agreement between the Union and Syria.
I do indeed understand that Syria is demanding that Israel return the Golan Heights, but Syria must acknowledge that Israel has security interests that it cannot renounce, and should help facilitate peaceful developments in Palestine and, in particular, in the Gaza Strip, not only in the shape of peace between one Palestinian and another, but also between the Palestinians and Israel.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Madam President, a crucial obstacle on the road to ratification has arisen, namely the ever-worsening human rights situation in Syria.
I refer in particular to Michel Kilo, Anwar al-Bunni and Mahmoud Issa, who are still being detained for having signed in May the Beirut-Damascus Declaration calling for the normalisation of relations between Lebanon and Syria.
Michel Kilo should have been released on 19 October, but a further charge has resulted in his prison term being extended.
Under these circumstances - as you said, Mrs De Keyser - there is no question of the European Union concluding an association agreement with Syria.
Regardless of its regime, Syria is a country that is vital to peace in the region.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, like the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I too will be emphatically voting against the De Keyser report during the plenary vote.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (PL) Madam President, we are today discussing an Association Agreement with a country whose significance must be clear to everyone in this House.
I believe this should be based on the premise that our stance and our opinion as the European Parliament requires respect for human rights and civil rights.
Ceasing to support terrorist activity has to be a sine qua non.
It is essential to apply pressure of this kind, otherwise we shall be infringing our fundamental principles. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, we have to be clear in our own minds about the fact that the crisis in the Middle East - not only where Lebanon is concerned, but also the Middle East problem as a whole - is capable of resolution only if Syria is brought on board, for it, at present, maintains links with Iran and Hizbollah, and thought must be given to how, if at all, these links can be dismantled, and in such a manner that it is in Syria's interests.
What is certain is that supplies of weapons to the Lebanon cannot be wholly stopped without Syria's consent, and that must be seen to be a factor.
The initiative on the part of the Mrs De Keyser and the Committee on Foreign Affairs - of which, it is my impression, both the Council and the Commission take a sympathetic view - makes an important contribution towards Syria being offered the opportunity to secure its own interests and thereby make a constructive contribution to the peace process in the region.
Syria must release the intellectuals, human rights defenders and political prisoners that it is holding in its prisons.
Europe must make every effort to include Syria among its strategic allies in the Middle East.
The EU pays millions of euros to support the tyrannical Syrian regime in the hope that somehow it will make them believers in democracy, civil liberties, human rights, etc.
But I endorse the findings of the report and I am hopeful now that the European Union will look to using its considerable leverage over Syria to achieve these objectives. (EL) Madam President, I too should like in turn to congratulate my honourable friend Véronique De Keyser on the very important report which she has presented to us.
I believe that on the basis of the new geopolitical situation which has arisen in the Middle East, the European Union should formulate its own independent strategy.
Europe must talk to Syria and must proceed with a coordinated institutional and political dialogue with the regime in Damascus.
I absolutely agree with everything contained in the report and with what my honourable friends have said.
That is why I believe that the European Union should not delay in signing the agreement.
Relations between the EU and Israel have unravelled since the summer attacks on Lebanon.
We must make demands from Syria in a similarly clear and uncompromising way.
Accordingly, Syria will hopefully develop into a democracy that respects human rights and religious freedom, that helps in the fight against terrorism, and that promotes dialogue and lasting peace in the region.
Syria is in a geostrategically vital location and has a crucial role to play in the Middle East peace process.
We must make respect for human rights and civil liberties a prerequisite for the signing of any agreement.
I welcome the fact that in the last month the Commissioner has authorised her representatives to hold discussions with Syria's ministries for Foreign Affairs and Economic Affairs and that this week the European Parliament will offer the prospect of signing the association agreement if Syria genuinely chooses to work with Europe to achieve peace in the Middle East. (NL) Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs De Keyser, for her hard work, and I should like to take this opportunity to express my concern in this area, for let us be honest.
The right circumstances and also the right timing are very important in the rewarming of these relations.
High Representative Javier Solana is in the region today in fact, and he intends to visit not only Israel and the Palestinian territories, but also Beirut, Jordan and possibly other places too.
But at the same time, as I said before, we will be looking at practical action on regional issues such as the implementation of Security Council resolution 1701, and playing a positive role, for instance in Palestine.
The debate is closed.
