As a European MEP, I am ready to undertake an intermediary role in the interests of Hungarian- Slovak harmony. (PL) Madam President, I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the situation of Christians in Vietnam.
All the same, the committee has debated intensely and made 200 amendments and 40 compromise amendments.
I would therefore like to protest before the European Parliament against the fact that human rights violations in India, Iraq and Vietnam are being ignored - I am also addressing the European Commission here - and I would like to appeal for diplomatic intervention and objection where such acts of barbarity have occurred.
In the last 60 years countless human rights groups and organisations around the world have used this declaration as the basis for their activities, for example Charter 77 in Czechoslovakia, Solidarity in Poland and the human rights movement in Latin America.
What is needed is an urgent programme to rescue bees and apiculture in the European Union. (PT) There have recently been closures of companies in Portugal, in particular in the textiles and clothing sectors, especially in the north of the country, for example, the textiles company Oliveira Ferreira in Riba de Ave and several in the Barcelos, Santo Tirso and Fafe areas.
It is therefore particularly important to know what the European Commission intends to do about the double checking system for trade with China, which expires at the end of this year, bearing in mind the need to defend production and jobs with rights in our countries. (PL) Madam President, in India repression aimed at Christians is showing no signs of waning.
The Austrian BEGAS corporation is planning to construct a 325 000-tonne-capacity waste incinerator just a few hundred metres from the Hungarian border, at Heiligenkreuz.
A particular cause I have for concern is that the planned incinerator would be barely a kilometre from the Hungarian town of Szentgotthárd, which lies in the predominant wind direction, and the Őrség National Park, which is protected under Natura 2000 and which contains the Őrség, recently a winner of the EDEN prize.
In Lesotho in Africa, her life expectancy would be 42.
The chance of a woman dying when giving birth in Sweden is 1 to 17 000; in Afghanistan the ratio is 1 to 8.
