The European Union's role in Iraq (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Gomes, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the European Union's role in Iraq.
rapporteur. - (PT) Madam President, as this House is about to vote on a report on the European Union's role in Iraq, it is important to look at some of the lessons learnt from the history of that country.
It was with this in mind that I made two trips to Iraq in January and February, in preparation for this report.
The main message of this report, which must be conveyed to the Commission, the Council, European companies, non-governmental organisations and public opinion, is as follows: Europe today has a unique opportunity to contribute positively to the future of Iraq and, as a result, the region.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Firstly I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Gomes, for her report on the role of the European Union in Iraq.
Ms Gomes has visited Iraq twice since December in order to get the clearest possible picture of what is and what is not happening in the country.
Let me take this opportunity to remind you of what we are already doing in and with Iraq and what we can set out to do under still difficult circumstances in the future.
First, the trade and cooperation agreement: it is a political endeavour, setting the basis for contractual relations between the European Union and Iraq for the first time.
Last year a substantial package of EUR 50 million was provided for refugee support.
The Commission also intends to allocate EUR 20 million from its humanitarian budget line for 2008 in support of IDPs/refugees and the most vulnerable groups in Iraq.
The Iraqi Government expressed its eagerness to work with the European Union.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (CS) Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to express my profound thanks to Baroness Nicholson, Mrs Ana Gomes and the Commission.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Ana Gomes's report is excellent, and constitutes a considerable feat.
Secondly, beyond Iraq itself Ana Gomes is concerned with the plight of the Iraqi refugees.
A recent report by the High Commissioner for Refugees claims that there are over two million refugees in neighbouring countries, but it is in Syria, with 1 400 000 refugees, and Jordan with almost half a million, that the situation has reached boiling point.
Ana Gomes is calling on Europe to show greater generosity in taking in refugees, and on the Commission to provide more support for its aid programmes.
In short, this report must be given very serious consideration in the short term, and perhaps also in the medium term, when it comes to any future policies on Iraq, especially budgetary policies.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I too offer my warmest congratulations to our rapporteur.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the report before us.
Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time, on 20 March, five years will have elapsed since the forces of the international coalition started the second war in the Persian Gulf.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, I would also like to thank Ms Gomes for her excellent report.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are positively disposed towards the Gomes report, which contains some distinctive points such as defence of territorial integrity and the need for a reconciliation process within Iraq.
One such company is that of Vice-President Cheney, Halliburton.
I think today we are faced with a vital challenge: actually to use what we know and what we have in support of political process, not through weapons, but through words, not through arms, but through deeds in Iraq and help the people there. (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I also wish to congratulate Mrs Gomes on the quality of her work on an extremely sensitive and complex issue.
According to the UNHCR, 6.6% of Iraqis living in Syria, some 100 000, have to be resettled.
I thus call on my colleagues to support the amendment in favour of resettlement programmes in 2008 for the EU to take in some of the most vulnerable refugees now in the hands of the UNHCR.
We must fully respect the 1951 Geneva Convention and refuse any forced returns to Iraq. (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Fernand Braudel claimed that history began in Sumer, but today the long history of Christian minorities in Iraq seems to have drawn to a close.
The European Union must actively support the institutional development of Iraq, strongly rooted in its realities, with due respect of the historical, religious, cultural and identity traditions of the Iraqi people and of all the ethnic and religious communities within its territory.
I recommend that the European Union institutions use the experience and expertise of those Member States that already have a civil and military presence on Iraqi territory in the process of stabilisation and reconstruction of this country.
At the same time, I believe that European companies should be encouraged and supported in getting involved in the process of the reconstruction of Iraqi and in better developing their business in this area. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, Mrs Gomes, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on International Trade we of course focused primarily on aspects relating to trade and economic relations, but in some areas we went beyond that remit.
We would very much like to see this aspiration being reflected in your decisions. - (EL) Madam President, first of all let me congratulate Mrs Gomes, as well as the Commissioner, who we felt showed humane sensitivity regarding today's events in Iraq.
Today we are giving EUR 820 million in aid to the Iraqis.
Please also allow me to say that the EUR 20 million which the Commissioner has spoken about today - and please forgive me as I did read about this two or three months ago - seem to me to be woefully inadequate to deal with the dramatic problems facing refugees and displaced persons.
The European Union must assist Iraq in becoming a viable partner in a sensitive region.
Congratulations and thanks to Mrs Ana Maria Gomes on the report. (PL) Madam President, if we want to be able to count on Iraqi partners who will help to create democracy as the basis of peaceful coexistence, investment will be needed.
President-in-Office. - (SL) I would like to thank everyone for expressing their positions and opinions on this subject, which will certainly be useful to us in our further activities.
It has been active in Iraq since 2005 and most Member States of the European Union are taking part.
The entire package for last year was EUR 50 million from various Commission instruments.
We have given EUR 80 million to Syria and EUR 32 million to Jordan because in this small country the large influx of refugees has created a big problem.
in writing. - (FI) Madam President, I wish to thank Mrs Gomes for her valuable report.
in writing. - (DE) The report by Mrs Gomes on the European Union's role in Iraq unfortunately sidesteps the two main issues of relevance to the situation in Iraq.
in writing. - Several Member States of the EU have sent their troops to Iraq to participate in the multinational force, United Nations assistance mission and NATO-sponsored training of the Iraqi police force, Estonia being one of those countries.
The European Union should play a vital role in Iraq as a mediator between different political and religious factions to establish a well-functioning society.
in writing. - (PL) It is my impression that Mrs Gomes has tabled not one report but two.
I am also pleased that countries that were divided by the intervention back in 2003 will today have the opportunity to take advantage together of the opportunities opened up by that war.
