Adoption by Slovakia of the single currency on 1 January 2009(debate) The next item is the report by Mr Casa, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a Council decision in accordance with Article 122(2) of the Treaty on the adoption by Slovakia of the single currency on 1 January 2009 - C6-0198/2008 -.
It will enable the country to benefit from the important advantages offered by Economic and Monetary Union, as set out in the report adopted by the Commission last May on 10 years of EMU.
The Ecofin Council of 3 June approved the Commission's report on Slovakia's fulfilment of the convergence criteria.
We have been in discussion for months with the Commission, with the European Central Bank, with the Slovak Government as well as with the whole of Slovak civil society to ensure that the process can truly help Slovakia to meet all the criteria laid down in the Treaty.
After the Commission issued its report, we, as Parliament, went through a process of discussion and consultation that was truly a very important moment, even for me, because I could see what the Commission was saying, not only what the European Central Bank or the Slovak Government were saying, but I could understand from the Slovak people how they perceive this historic step that they will take, God willing, next January.
As the Commissioner stated just before me, today Slovakia has a responsibility, because there is a queue of countries behind it, the majority of which, like Slovakia, are emerging from a Communist era and wish to enter this area that is so important for the European Union.
Therefore, the country that we are talking about today has a responsibility to remain durable as regards convergence, and especially as regards the inflation rate that was the subject of much discussion even in my report.
However, from the statistics we have before us today, it is clear that we have a problem throughout the area and we cannot single out Slovakia, because today we are talking about an inflation rate that actually increased in the 21 countries of the European Union.
Therefore, we must not only ensure that Slovakia maintains a durable inflation rate, but also see how the inflation rate can be reduced as much as possible in all the countries already in the euro area.
We know about the problems that we are currently facing, the oil problem that is not affecting us in a positive way, and we therefore have to consider how we are going to tackle this very important issue.
As I said, Parliament has visited Slovakia for the first time and I would appeal that delegations from this Parliament are sent to each country that is going to enter the euro area because this provides an opportunity to hear and learn more about how the economy is really faring in that particular country.
I do not think that this Parliament should be treated in the way the Commission treated it because we should at least have been consulted.
In closing I would like to thank all those who assisted me in preparing this report, including the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups, my coordinator and the committee chairs, who were always very cooperative on this report.
Lastly, I thank the Slovak people and wish them well with this historic step they are now going to take.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to thank the rapporteur.
All we can do is ask of the Commission - and not just ask, but actually insist - that it helps out here so that for future adoptions of the single currency, the criteria that are already laid down in the Treaty will be made specific.
The euro was never an end in itself.
The euro was always just a marker along the way to further development of the European Union.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Casa for producing an excellent report.
Today Slovakia is one of the most rapidly developing States in the European Union.
In particular, the Slovakian Government must make sure that the change in currency takes place in an organised manner, so that there are no price rises, and so that the Slovak public's support for the new currency is maintained in future.
Mr President, in taking the floor in this debate on behalf of the UEN Group, I wish to draw attention to the following issues.
Slovakia's entry into the euro area will be an important experience for the new Member States.
The consequences of introducing the euro in Slovakia, especially... (The President cut off the speaker) on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (DA) Mr President, Slovakia wishes to participate in the euro, and I do not blame it for that, yet I wish to take this opportunity to call for level-headedness.
The European Central Bank operates on the basis of a maximum inflation rate of 2%.
This restraining of economic stimulation gives us grounds to fear further recession in Europe.
If I were Slovakia, I would at all events defer abolishing my own currency in favour of the euro until the latter has passed its first test in economic crises. (SK) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, we can learn a lot from history.
During the reference year, 1997, Germany had problems complying with the criterion relating to the level of public borrowing, and as a result even those countries that had significantly exceeded the criteria values, such as Belgium or Italy, were tolerated.
I must point out that these countries have not met all the deficit criteria.
The Slovak Republic not only met the convergence criteria; it met them well in advance.
Consequently, I welcome the positive position of the European Commission and of the European Parliament as highlighted in the report by the rapporteur, Mr Casa, on the adoption by Slovakia of the single currency on 1 January 2009.
It is the natural culmination of enormous efforts by the Slovak Governments that created, in particular between 1998 and 2006, a solid economic base through radical economic reforms in the areas of finance, tax and social affairs.
Continuous efforts to reach the goal, as well as the responsible conduct of the Slovak Governments and the National Bank, made it possible to meet all the Maastricht criteria necessary for accession to the eurozone, without extra influences such as hidden inflation or the artificial strengthening of the Slovak currency, the koruna.
Some members of the ECON Committee have voiced their concerns about the long-term sustainability of these criteria, in particular a low inflation rate.
I am convinced, however, that Slovakia has all it needs to meet these criteria on a long-term basis, provided that at least a standard fiscal policy is in place and further structural reforms are carried out.
To conclude, I would especially like to congratulate the people of Slovakia, who accepted these fundamental and radical reforms and therefore deserve the utmost praise for achieving this positive result. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that thanks to our rapporteur, Mr Casa, we have a balanced report for welcoming the political decision we are going to take: Slovakia's entry into the euro area.
In Slovakia's case, we can see that from the point of view of controlling inflation and pursuing balance, and from the point of view of social cohesion and implementing structural reforms, there is still much to be done.
Economic and Monetary Union is now 10 years old, and we know what is still wrong with it in terms of the balance between economic policy, monetary policy and even its external representativeness.
It is this Economic and Monetary Union that Slovakia is joining; it is not the same situation as 10 years ago and we all need to take this into account. (SV) Who would have thought, when Vladimir Mečiar led Slovakia, that his country would not just become a Member State of the EU but would also introduce the euro some 10 years on.
It shows both instinct and confidence for good future economic policy as a member of the euro group.
Although referendums are not very popular these days, I hope that over the period 2010-2011 we shall be able to hold a referendum which will vote to introduce the euro in Sweden.
The financial crisis shows what a strong European currency and an effective central bank mean to the protection of the EU's growth and economy.
I congratulate Mr Casa, the rapporteur, for doing a splendid, outstanding job.
I am delighted that Slovakia has fulfilled all the criteria set out in quantitative terms in the EC Treaty as conditions for admission to the euro zone.
I believe it is important only to voice an opinion on whether the applicant country has fulfilled the criteria, because otherwise we discriminate among Member States on the basis of whether they joined the euro zone earlier or will do so in future.
Loosely defined sustainability criteria - notably with regard to inflation or debt - or real convergence cannot be the subject of separate quantitative analysis in the report, since all Member States in the euro zone, must be trusted equally from the moment they join to implement sustainability.
This is especially the case if the Member State in question has a low and falling level of debt compared to its fellow euro club members.
The Slovak Government is taking on a huge responsibility.
In view of this, Slovakia must use all means at its disposal to keep inflation under control, in other words within the reference limit.
Issues such as ensuring that applicant countries submit their request in time, defining what we mean by discipline concerning the timeframe between the Commission forming an opinion and a decision being reached, or defining the notion of real convergence, or how long we can realistically expect exchange rate stability to be maintained in the event of appreciation, must be addressed separately.
All of these facts suggest that the new criterion of permanently sustainable inflation will not be an insurmountable problem for Slovakia in the future either.
It is the sincere wish of the Government of the Slovak Republic that the adoption of the euro on 1 January 2009 should not have a serious impact on the poorer sections of society.
The government has involved the regional and local governments, professional circles and civil society, as well as churches, in this programme.
The Slovakian Government as well as the Slovak Central Bank are well aware that meeting crucial criteria, not in the short term but in the medium and long terms, will be a demanding task.
The Slovak economy is in the process of catching up with the rest of the European Monetary Union.
I wish all the best to the Slovaks in the euro zone. (SK) In the course of the last six years, the Slovak economy has been growing at an average rate of more than 6.5% per year.
The Slovak Government has adopted measures to keep inflation under control.
The previous Slovak Government, led by Mikuláš Dzurinda, approved the strategy for the adoption of the euro as far back as 2003.
However, I do not agree with the views of some of my colleagues that additional criteria for monitoring the economic stability of Slovakia are needed.
It is too late for a debate on setting the Maastricht criteria for fast-growing economies.
I believe that his name will go down in the history of the Slovak Republic. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 10 years after its birth, the euro is an undeniable success and is today one of the pillars of trust for citizens in the European project.
As I said, these questions deserve a serious debate in which the European Parliament must have an active voice, and the Socialist Group's wish is for the euro to contribute to more than just financial stability.
I hope they will be successful in their forthcoming participation in the single currency project and my very best wishes to them in exactly this regard. (DE) Mr President, it is a good thing that Slovakia has the opportunity to join the euro area.
The distance between the citizens and the European elite is growing in such a way that the entire European project is put at risk, whereas instead everyone should be working towards true democracy. (SK) I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr David Casa, for his work on the report.
In the last decade, in particular during the years of Mr Mikuláš Dzurinda's Government, post-communist Slovakia implemented demanding socio-economic reforms that made it possible for the economy to meet the Maastricht criteria.
I also believe that the European Parliament will vote for Slovakia's adoption of the European currency today. (SK) The new currency is a turning point for the society and its citizens.
I believe that from next year onwards Slovakia will be a model stable eurozone member; a problem-free showcase for the European Union. (LT) I would like to congratulate the Commission on giving Slovakia the green light to join the euro area from 1 January next year.
I would also like to point out the fact that, with Slovakia about to become the 16th member of the euro area, it is essential to ensure that an efficient decision-making procedure is put in place for the European Central Bank's Governing Council.
I would like to point out the importance of not postponing the introduction of the rotation system until the number of members of the Management Board reaches 18 and making sure that it is implemented as soon as possible in view of both the preparations that Slovakia must carry out in order to join the euro area and the further expansion of the latter. (MT) I would like to congratulate my colleague Mr Casa, who I know put a lot of work into preparing this report, and I wish him success.
I would also like to congratulate Slovakia, which is about to adopt the euro.
I come from a country that introduced the euro this year and I can assure everyone that, despite the difficulties and sacrifices that a country has to make in order to enter the euro area, it is surely a source of satisfaction and pride for such countries.
I would like to say that it is becoming clear in this discussion that it is possible to have a 'two-speed' Europe.
However, all this time these suggestions have been turned down.
The left can now celebrate their success because when it entered into government it adopted membership of the eurozone as a national interest.
Sadly, this will take at least another five more years and possibly even longer. (DE) Mr President, Slovakia has experienced an economic upturn and, after this very controversial debate about its fulfilment of the criteria, we will vote on whether it should join the euro area.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, Slovakia now has the opportunity to join the eurozone.
This is possible because of the Slovak Republic's socio-economic results.
It will not be just the Slovak Republic but also the European Union as a whole that will benefit from this deeper integration when this very successful and fast-developing economy joins.
Of course, in some ways these fears are justified.
Of course the risk of inflation exists, and this matter has been brought to the Slovak Government's attention in all documents and debates.
Regarding the issue of revaluation of the Slovak currency, I must say that it always took place within the expected limits, within the framework of flexibility that each government, each country is allowed in this process in order be able to respond, in the best possible manner, to the extraordinary moment when the euro is adopted.
Although the final setting of the value will be a very serious goal and task, and although it will be an extraordinary operation, it will not be taking place for the first time.
I agree that in this Parliament there is consensus about (the fact) that we all agree that Slovakia is ready to enter the euro area.
We have before us as speakers - before me, to be exact - a historic moment.
I will end my speech by once again thanking all those who have helped me to arrive at this point and I sincerely hope that the Slovak people will be able to build on the success they have achieved up to now.
