Future of the sheep/lamb and goat sector in Europe (debate) The next item is the report by Liam Aylward, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the future of the sheep/lamb and goat sector in Europe.
Rapporteur. - (GA) Mr President, the sheep and goat sectors are very important for the economy and environment in Europe.
But yet, the future of this industry is currently under pressure in the European Union.
I consulted with the Agriculture Commissioner, Mrs Fischer Boel, and various European agriculture ministers, who were all very supportive to me in compiling this report.
Fourthly, a review of the introduction of the compulsory electronic identification system for sheep, scheduled for 31 December 2009.
Fifthly, an increase in the current annual European Commission food promotion budget which is valued at EUR 45 million for 2008, the ring-fencing of funding for EU lamb, and changes and simplifications to the practical rules governing the operation of this budget so that lamb products can be given meaningful access to this budget.
Member of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am standing in for Commissioner Fischer Boel, who of course knows this sector better than I do.
As Mrs Fischer Boel stated recently when putting forward the proposals on the CAP Health Check, farmers are the custodians of the countryside: they protect our shared natural heritage, and in many rural areas they continue to represent the beating heart of the economy.
We are suggesting in addition that the existing Article 69 be applied more flexibly, making it possible for the sheep sector in particular to benefit from it.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development should have a report every six months on the state of play in the industry and what is being done to develop and improve the sector.
I support the proposals that have been put forward by our rapporteur and by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development relating to financial support for the production and promotion of agricultural products.
Finally, I would remind you that we need to act as a matter of some urgency, and certainly by next year, if we want to save this sector, for I fear that using Article 69, which has now become Article 68, as a health check for sectors in crisis will simply come too late in the day.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I would add my own congratulations to the rapporteur this evening.
Furthermore, sheep and goats are raised in areas that are, for all intents and purposes, unsuitable for any other farming activity.
This means that the Commission and Member States must give absolute priority to this problem of the transparency of prices in the sector.
This type of production must be increased in mountain and other specific areas in order to preserve biological diversity in agriculture and keep these animals in sensitive areas.
I must thank the rapporteur for his report. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, we are dealing with a serious subject, namely the gradual disappearance of Europe's sheep and Europe's shepherds.
There are a billion sheep in the world, but Europe only has 97 million, in other words less than 10%, and when it comes to ewes the situation is even worse, for there are now only 67 million of them in Europe.
And do not forget you are talking about millions and millions of sheep in the European Union.
We are just not ready, and I would say: leave it to 2012 or beyond. (ES) Mr President, the European sheep and lamb sector has for a number of years been experiencing a serious crisis that is taking it to the brink of collapse, as has already been mentioned.
Although Mr Smith seems to believe that only Scotland has sheep, there are also some in Spain.
We also want the Commission to include in the strategy for this sector the revival of the activities of shepherds, milking professionals and shearers, which are disappearing. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, the situation of the sheep and goat sector indicates that the common agricultural policy is in crisis.
We have experienced a crisis in the market in cereals, when it proved necessary to take 2 900 000 hectares out of set-aside.
It now appears that we also have a crisis in the sheep and goat sector.
So measures in terms of marketing initiatives to help that are very important.
A year and a half ago EUR 28 million were promised, with great fanfare, to Irish farmers.
Nor should we forget that sheep and goat farms are often located in isolated, mountainous or insular areas.
This is why we have to ensure that these livestock farms are maintained and that the market in sheep and goat products is revived. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that the report before us contains many provisions that could, if implemented, prove beneficial to the future of the sheep and goat sector in Europe.
The measure providing for the introduction of additional support for sheep farming in mountainous regions and in areas where sheep farming is the only form of farming would, in my view, be particularly valuable.
May I call on the Commission to take a second, more critical, look at the standards of the animal disease reference laboratories it uses, in order to make sure that their scientific credibility is of the required highest level? (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, I am sorry to have to say that the report by Mr Aylward is actually more about rescuing the sheep and goat sector in Europe than about ensuring its future.
The Management Committee for Sheep and Goats issues opinions on the legislation relating to the sector.
I am not going to go through them now but I can accept Amendments 6, 7, 8, 9, 3 and 5.
I think it is worth pointing out that since 2003 it has been stated that any sector in the common agricultural policy facing difficulty or disadvantage will be prioritised in the context of the CAP health check.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 19 June 2008.
