The programmes involved are the action programme for equal opportunities, the MEDIA programme and the action programme against discrimination.
I am sure the House will endorse these decisions. (Applause) Madam President, I can be fairly brief, because I paid all my tributes at the first reading and no longer have so many problems with the other budgets.
With regard to Amendments Nos 34, 38, 35, 36 and 78, the computer has jumbled up the figures.
Report (A5-0380/2000) by Mrs Haug and Mr Ferber, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2001 as modified by the Council (all sections) (13830/2000 - C5-0600/2000 - 1999/2190(BUD)) and on Letter of Amendment No 2/2001 to the 2001 draft general budget (13833/2000 - C5-0653/2000) Section I European Parliament Section II Council Section IV Court of Justice Section V Court of Auditors Section VI Economic and Social Committee Section VII Committee of the Regions Section VIII European Ombudsman (Parliament adopted the resolution) President.
I have spoken to Mr Sterckx about Amendment No 60 and the block that relates to it, which is Nos 52, 62, 57, 38 and 60.
With the agreement of the rapporteur we would like to move my Amendment No 60 to be taken between Nos 52 and 62 if it comes to that.
It is clearly an amendment tabled by myself, along with 31 members, and I therefore want it to carry my name.
the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 218/92 on administrative cooperation in the field of indirect taxation (VAT) (COM(2000) 349 - C5-0298/2000 - 2000/0147(COD)), and II.
Several Members consider that these representatives of the content providers are subsumed under other categories of representatives.
The programme is called eContent.
Madam President, I wonder whether we can sanction a resolution regarding the Nice Summit at all?
Having read what was in the papers this morning in my country, I have to say that not only was the French Presidency mistaken about Poland' s and Spain' s vote weighting, for which the President has, in fact, offered his apologies, but problems have emerged which are both numerous and embarrassing.
I quote: annex 3 of the draft treaty stipulates that the majority threshold, which rises as and when new Member States accede, should constitute 73.4% of the votes once all Member States have joined.
General Budget for 2001 At the second reading of the budget, Parliament has just approved the full reinstatement to the Cohesion Fund budget line of EUR 360 million, which it had placed in reserve on the first reading.
Since it was set up, the Cohesion Fund has had a considerable impact on two areas of great Community interest - the environment and trans-European transport networks; it has been effectively implemented in the Community budget and has had one of the highest implementation rates in the entire Community budget.
The debate at second reading on the 2001 budget gives rise to the same feelings we had last October and therefore leads us again to voting against the budget.
As we pointed out at first reading, aid to the Balkans by no means justifies a revision of the financial perspective, and nor does it mean, spuriously, that the fisheries agreements with Morocco should be challenged, by entering EUR 130 million into a reserve.
The most significant event to have occurred since our previous budgetary debates is, of course, the "mad cow" crisis.
Whilst France must now take satisfaction in the fact that the European Union has finally adopted France' s position in the field of prevention, we remain concerned about the appropriations that these new political choices will require.
The gravity of the situation has led our group to table a number of amendments highlighting the importance of earmarking the necessary funds for standardising screening tests and for compensation for them, as well as for massive aid to the cattle industry, which has been severely affected.
The EUR 60 million for the former and the EUR 360 million earmarked for the latter will not be enough for 2001.
In Edinburgh in 1992, the Heads of State and Government decided that the European Parliament had three official seats: Strasbourg for 12 plenary part-sessions a year, Brussels for committee and group meetings and short plenary part-sessions and Luxembourg as the seat of the Secretariat-General.
The budget will allow the EU to implement its priority activities whilst, at the same time, maintaining budgetary discipline.
The budget for 2001 is largely based on a compromise between Parliament, the Council and the Commission, which we support.
Parliament has succeeded in driving through a number of important prioritisations - including increased efforts in the struggle against unemployment and poverty, a number of important environmental and equality issues, etc.
We have voted against the right' s attacks on the LIFE programme and the European Women' s Lobby.
We have thus found the funds required in order to be able to provide strong support to the reconstruction and democratisation of the Balkans, including now in Serbia.
We Scandinavian Social Democrats have also succeeded in driving through a proposal for increased support to local and regional cooperation in the Baltic region, which now amounts to EUR 16 million.
The conciliation meeting of 23 November enshrined the use of all the sums available under the flexibility instrument, totalling EUR 200 million, for Serbia, and this is to be welcomed, even if we must deplore the fact that Parliament has had to reverse the decision it took at first reading, which favoured MEDA.
The European Union is thereby now conceding, admittedly rather late in the day, the importance of substantial aid to the Republic of Yugoslavia, which is at a low ebb, and of doing so whilst respecting its borders.
The size of the allocation that has been earmarked for Kosovo does not mean that there are not legitimate questions as to the real capacity of this region of Yugoslavia to absorb the EUR 350 million that were initially earmarked to be given to it in 2001.
García-Margallo y Marfil report (A5-0362/2000) Mr President, I voted for the García-Margallo y Marfil report on the taxation of electronic commerce.
I therefore ask you, Mr President, when we will vote on a directive facilitating this type of electronic commerce.
We voted against the Torres Marques report on harmonising VAT in Europe and, incidentally, against the García-Margallo y Marfil report, which deals with the taxation of electronically supplied services.
I voted for the Ferber report, although I have to say that I would prefer there to be greater liberalisation of the postal service.
We voted against the Ferber report.
We are against any kind of seizure by private capital of a public service as essential as the post office, whether the weight/price threshold, beyond which we open up the door to such capital is 350 grams, 150 grams or, even worse, 50 grams.
An end date would send a clear message to the players in the postal market and provide better opportunity for the national monopolies to prepare for deregulation.
Today I voted in favour of the Ferber report on "European postal services" because, given the current balance of power in Europe and within the European Parliament, we obtained as much as we could to prevent the total disappearance of public postal services in Europe!
I am very pleased with this first reading and with the work that has been achieved by our Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, with the commitment of our rapporteur and, above all, with the skill and constancy demonstrated on so many occasions by Brian Simpson, our shadow rapporteur in the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
The liberalisation of postal services is one of the fundamental dossiers connected with the concept of services of general interest and, more generally, with preserving the European Union' s social and territorial cohesion.
But how can we not see this compromise report as a compromise on the postal service itself?
By that time, more than 17 years will have elapsed since this matter was first discussed at EU level.
As with other markets, traditional, national frontiers in the postal sector have now lost their meaning.
We voted against this report because we refuse to accept further liberalisation of postal services in Europe.
This is why we also voted against the amendments proposing to lower the price/weight threshold to 150 or to 50 grams.
The compromise takes account of my amendment to this effect, which means that I can endorse the report with a clear conscience at this first reading.
The 50 and 350 grams weight scales were divided, 150 grams being the dividing line.
That translates into 100 popular grams gained by the Right and 200 less popular grams going to the Left.
The Commission' s proposal regarding postal services embodies an unrestrained desire to liberalise, threatening an essential public service along with the companies that provide it and the workers that perform it.
The liberalisation of postal services on the terms proposed by the Commission is neither appropriate nor consistent, and I therefore voted in favour of the report and all the amendments moved that expressed this position.
Today, postal correspondence is still the means by which part of the Portuguese population chooses to keep its family ties alive.
The fact that we have voted on this report in the December session is extremely important.
This is a codecision process which, as well as highlighting the importance of Parliament' s role, will also strengthen its position at the next meeting of the telecommunications Council still to take place this year, on 22 December.
In my opinion, this should be considered to be a waste of resources: in one sense we are throwing money down the drain, for EUR 12.4 million is to be spent over a period of four years - from 2001 to 2004 - to facilitate the application of Community environment legislation at local level.
Dary report (A5-0374/2000) Mr President, I voted for the report on the common organisation of the market in bananas because, although trade in bananas must certainly be liberalised, pursuant to the Treaty, we must also concern ourselves with the problems of the States making up the European Union.
We have, however, reservations on Amendments Nos 6, 7, 11, 15, 16, 25 and 26, as we do not exclude the possibility of a tariff-only system in the future.
We also have reservations on Amendments Nos 17, 18, 27, 30 and 31, being not convinced that they are WTO compatible.
We abstained on this vote, which is the umpteenth skirmish in the banana war which pits, on the one side, dollar-supported bananas dominated by three huge American capitalist groups and, on the other, bananas, which have until now been protected, from regions dominated by British or French capitalist companies or by a handful of powerful Creole families.
It is our view that those in greatest need of protection from the consequences of the trade war on which the capitalist groups have embarked are the banana industry workers, who are exploited when business is good but who are sacked when the big producers decide to invest in other, more profitable sectors when bananas do not bring in enough profit.
Exactly eight months ago, this House sent a very clear message to the Commission: the adoption of a wholly tariff-based system after a transitional period of six years would inevitably condemn banana producers within the Community and those from the ACP to bankruptcy and misery.
In short, this is a form of globalisation unfettered by any democratic regulation.
Torres Marques report (A5-0366/2000) For reasons of principle as well as for practical reasons, I felt bound to vote against the amendments to the text proposed by the Commission.
In the United States, a perfect example of economic and monetary union, there are considerable differences in taxation between the various states.
In practice, Amendments Nos 2 and 3 will have the effect of harmonising VAT rates upwards.
The maximum rate has not even been mentioned.
Gill report (A5-0390/2000) The Gill report has not met with our support.
In this context, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms forms a framework delineating the content for the sake of consumer protection.
Amendment No 8 reduces these to barriers to industrial development.
In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, Community activities must focus on those areas where activity at Community level offers added value.
The report does not give sufficient consideration to this aspect.
The eContent programme is intended to encourage the development and the use of European digital content in the global networks and to promote linguistic diversity in the information society.
This programme is part of the e-Europe initiative, "an information society for all" by the European Union (EU), launched by the Commission in December 1999.
It will cover a period of five years, from 2001 to 2005.
We must put them in a position where they can compete with the United States, which dominates this sector.
As rapporteur on universal service and the new communication networks, I think it is crucial to guarantee all our citizens access to the new information and communications technologies.
This proposal for a Council decision is in line with the action intended to improve the networks of knowledge in Europe.
It must be emphasised that linguistic minorities, rather than being overwhelmed by the globalisation brought about by the Internet, have discovered that it opens up new cultural and economic horizons.
This report contains many excellent ideas as to how these goals may be brought about for the benefit of all Member States, and I fully support it.
What the text says about the necessary linguistic and cultural customisation is, however, sometimes frustrating: the encouragement to produce programmes on regional languages and on the "ethnic minorities" that are represented in the Union is a decision whose predictable consequences are the gradual erosion of national identities.
In these circumstances, it is in large part the coherence and the unity of the United States that have guaranteed that country its pre-eminent position in this market of the future.
We have already heard vivid examples in this Parliament of separatist Members who would rather speak in English than in the official language of their Member State.
Mr President, I asked my daughter Elisabetta, who, as you know, is the regional representative of the Pensioners' Party for Lombardy - to give me her opinion on the Nice Council and to tell me whether she felt I should vote for the motion.
I therefore voted against this resolution.
And these agreements do not include, for example, the Charter of Fundamental Rights which this Parliament approved.
That is inherent to the problem and does not bear witness to a short-term vision, as Paragraph 5 of the resolution suggests.
The Community method is suited to tackling cross-border issues but is no miracle cure to solve all problems.
They "patched up" the Community machine in order to prolong its lifespan in the face of enlargement.
They may have succeeded in this, at least for the moment, but at the cost of serious problems, such as greater supranationality, less democracy and greater German influence in the decision-making process.
On the contrary, future IGCs must now deliberate on a more solid basis, an agenda consisting of proposals adopted by a minimum number - for example, a third - of national parliaments.
Despite a slight increase in the threshold for qualified majority voting, the scope of which remains to be seen, this extension is bound to mean that the gap will increase further still between the European institutions and national democracies.
With regard to the trade negotiations mentioned earlier, for example, national parliaments will lose their last rights of ratification, and if a country is in a minority in the Council, it will no longer be able to say 'no' if negotiations threaten its interests.
At the same time, we should not be under any illusions about the apparent retention of parity in France and Germany' s votes in the Council: this is a trick of the light, because the new "demographic net" rule - the creation of a blocking minority representing 38% of the population - will automatically favour Germany, which alone will hold almost half of this minority following enlargement to 27 members.
At the same time, the discrepancy between the number of German Members of the European Parliament and those from other countries such as France is increasing even further, which will have certain consequences in the context of the decision-making powers acquired by the European Parliament.
The only way of preventing dangerous conflicts in future is to adhere to the traditional concept, according to which Europe is founded on mutual respect between national communities.
However, we note that the formal opportunities for achieving qualified majority voting have been restricted and that qualified majority voting has been introduced only in a limited number of areas.
Together with the new Treaty of Nice it was decided that preparations should be commenced for the next Intergovernmental Conference.
The debates in Parliament have made this quite clear.
We still have a few months to work on this until the end of 2003 in order to save the European project.
The tone of the resolution is negative.
The text says the Heads of State gave priority to short-term national interests rather than EU interests.
What was agreed was agreed in the best interests of Europe and the Member States.
In other words, what Parliament wants is control over taxation and social security issues.
The Nice Summit properly reflects the interests of the Member States in this area.
Those who see their power strengthened are the large countries, especially Germany, France and the United Kingdom, which, in practice, can wreck any decision by forming a blocking minority.
This situation is exacerbated by the extension of decision making by qualified majority, under which, in certain circumstances, only 14 countries can make decisions on behalf of the 27 or 28, thus, in practice, eliminating the right of veto on policies that are highly important for Portugal, such as the Structural Funds or commercial policy agreements.
In addition, Portugal also loses members in the European Parliament, because, although the 700 barrier will have been passed for a European Union with 27 Member States, the number of Members per state will be reduced, and this will affect certain countries, including Portugal in particular.
The democratic and social leap that Europe needs to make today almost failed to materialise in Nice.
In fact, neither the adoption of a Charter of Fundamental Rights on the cheap, nor the extension of qualified majority voting in areas of lesser importance, nor the on-going liberalisation of public services, nor the increasingly widespread use of enhanced cooperation in the field of defence will persuade the European public that Europe is heading in the right direction.
But could it have been any other way when we see dossiers such as the Tobin tax, tax havens, maritime safety or even the fight against unemployment and job insecurity unable to progress beyond being declarations of intent or virtual projects, which have neither the resources nor the agenda to be implemented?
I was bitterly disappointed by the French Presidency of the Council before and during the negotiations.
The high public profile of his call for more German influence in the Council, in other words for more votes than France, which has over 20 million fewer inhabitants than Germany, totally devalued its substance, making it appear like a bargaining chip in a thinly veiled tactical manoeuvre.
The resolution that was approved in this Parliament does not reflect these positions and concerns of ours, and even sends out an appeal for the current method of Intergovernmental Conferences to be abandoned in future.
In our view, for as long as Europe is what it is, questions of a constitutional nature or of fundamental interest for the States, such as those that were debated in Nice, should not be resolved by any other means; that is, they should require unanimity.
Thus, notwithstanding reservations about the Treaty, I above all oppose the sentiments expressed by the majority of this House, which, unfortunately, has still failed to learn from the facts and instead insists on approaches that will simply lead to more frustration. - (SV) The Treaty of Nice means that the EU will become more supranational and centralised.
García-Margallo y Marfil report (A5-0334/2000) Mr President, this time I did not consult my daughter but I did ask a pensioner who, as usual, came to see me off at the airport when I left for Strasbourg what he thought of the report on fuel taxation.
Not only reduced staffing levels and other cuts, but also government policy have brought the prices down.
Patrie report (A5-0352/2000) Mr President, I voted for the document on the precautionary principle but I do have some reservations.
It goes without saying that citizens must, in any event, be fully informed.
I think that Parliament should also apply this precautionary principle to its explanations of vote.
The basis of my report is a proposed communication from the Commission to the Member States setting out the implementing provisions for the financing by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) of innovative measures for the period 2000-2006, for which guidelines were agreed in Berlin.
Although the letter sent to Parliament by the Commission on 5 September 2000 proposing the guidelines for innovative measures under the ERDF still referred to EUR 400 million, back in May 2000, in its review of the use of the Structural Funds during the period from 1994 to 1999, the Commission had proposed the withdrawal of EUR 160 million from this allocation to cover outstanding liabilities for the period from 1994 to 1999.
The trick is to know which will succeed and flourish but we should also have the strength to know that when something has failed we should not prop it up at public expense and develop a strategy that takes this into account.
It is my belief that an innovative strategy such as conceived in this report and as implemented by entrepreneurs at an individual level will be the key to economic prosperity in this new millennium.
But innovation is the basis of competitiveness and it must exist even where there is no capacity for research, and this objective is therefore important.
Teleworking can also create new job opportunities in sparsely populated areas.
The basic idea behind innovative measures is the creation and utilisation of new operational models.
Tourism is an important means of livelihood in many remote areas as well.
Innovative measures would, for example, help to promote the cooperation of travel companies in marketing and reservation systems.
Regarding the budget, some serious words were said here in the previous speech: EUR 400 million is really just the minimum for financing, and we will have to utilise the additional financial possibilities offered by the flexibility instrument in the second half of the period, as the report states.
Amendments Nos 5 and 7 are appropriate, as the Commission should not use appropriation reserves for unexpected projects, as was the case a few weeks ago.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my remarks today are chiefly addressed to the Commissioner, because, as we know, innovative measures have always been the Commission's main instrument of progress.
However, EU policies in the fields of the single market, employment and cohesion have been considerably more innovative and sophisticated in recent times.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in order to bolster the competitiveness of Europe in the world economy, the Union supports the transition of businesses and regional authorities to operational methods based on knowledge and technological innovation.
Unfortunately, as in the last planning period, expectations will far exceed the available funding framework of EUR 400 million.
It is a good report, based on a good paper from the Commission.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as someone who lives and works in an Objective 1 region, and on an island to boot, I am obviously well qualified to understand the importance of the initiative and appreciate the objectives of the European Union.
However, the facility to increase appropriations through the flexibility instrument provided for in the Interinstitutional Agreement improves things somewhat.
If this does not happen, we shall be unable to avoid the paradoxical situation in which the less well developed countries, having borne the effects of a substantial, dramatic migration, now see their technicians - trained at the great expense of their populations and perfectly able to work in the field of the new economy - forced to emigrate to richer countries with higher employment levels because of the lack of industries and businesses in which they can practice their professions in their own countries.
In this context, the ERDF must also continue to perform its function of supporting the construction of modern infrastructure and the creation of businesses as necessary conditions for the development of the new economy and, indeed, the job creation associated with it.
By earmarking EUR 400 million for this important purpose we are sending out a very weak signal.
I also believe, however, that the division into three priority areas envisaged in the Commission report is somewhat artificial; like the rapporteur, I am inclined to think that we should include more innovative measures in the domains of energy efficiency, propagation of renewable forms of energy and practical implementation of climate protection measures in our catalogue of eligible activities.
I do not know whether it is a direct consequence of this Risi initiative that three ladies signed the European budget today, but I should be delighted if this Christmas present on which we are deciding today could also continue to benefit women in the future.
These people are our partners.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the year 2000 is coming to an end and we are still debating the main guidelines, that is to say, the priorities in terms of innovative actions financed through the European Regional Development Fund.
If the Berlin reform for the 7 years dealt with by Agenda 2000, that is to say for the period 2000-2006, reduced the budgetary contributions for these actions by half in comparison with the previous period and, to that, we add the inevitable slowness with which we adopt decisions at a Community level, as a result of our complex institutional structure, it is not surprising that we are in a situation where we have not even been able to spend the budget laid down for the current year for innovative regional policy measures, and this is an example of political irresponsibility.
It is also a mistake to reduce the budget in a chapter such as this which was being dedicated to pilot experiments, to new ideas in the field of local and urban development - with some more than satisfactory results - which have formed the basis of Community programmes as cherished at local level as URBAN and INTERREG.
If we have still not realised, in this increasingly globalised world, that the progress of any country or region depends on its investment in research and innovation, we are providing our voters with a bad service.
Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to another aspect of the new policy proposed by the Commission.
Now, the local authorities, the municipalities and the mayors of the least-favoured urban areas can no longer go to Brussels to seek solidarity and aid from the European Union.
But I must say that it is not all going to be negative and, in this respect, we are pleased that our proposal to also introduce measures relating to energy efficiency and the diversification of renewable energy sources, as well as measures relating to climatic and environmental protection, has been accepted.
You yourself referred to the gap between the poor regions - between the ten poorest and the ten richest regions - but if you analyse the figures, you will be forced to see that the gaps are even wider in these regions when it comes to simple criteria such as the number of Internet connections.
We have noted these gaps and diagnosed the risk of a digital divide, as it is referred to in the current debate raging in America, which is why, ladies and gentlemen - and I shall perhaps come back to this later - I chose to propose, on the Commission's behalf, that two out of three innovative measures, two major priorities, should be geared to this digital divide, mainly by taking account of the poorest or most remote regions.
As Mr Rack quite rightly said, I have never construed this regional policy and this cohesion policy as some sort of alms to the poorest regions and I never shall.
That is why we selected these three priorities - technological innovation, the information society and regional identity and sustainable development - as our strategic priorities.
Mr Mastorakis and Mr Nogueira have stressed this point.
I should now like to respond in greater detail to the points touched on or raised in the draft report and in your various questions.
I had the honour of serving as Minister of the Environment for my country and I bear this concern in mind as a priority in the measures taken under the Structural Funds.
I would add that the European Commission, as you know, is already supporting energy efficiency through the SAVE programme and through one of the thematic programmes under the fifth framework programme for research for 1998-2002.
And I also apply what I say here about partnerships on innovative measures as a reality check for these partnerships when it comes to the programming documents of the Community Support Frameworks or the Structural Funds in general.
I see these measures as laboratories and I am very interested in their impact and in their future as part of the mainstream within the framework of the Structural Funds.
I fully share your interest in cooperation networks and activities between regions.
I must remind you that most of these measures relate to investments in intangibles and to a limited number of issues and measures.
I also share your wish to take recourse to the package of appropriations decided within the framework of Agenda 2000 in order to implement innovative measures.
I have also taken note of your interest in the opportunities offered by the flexibility instrument.
In this context, the Commission shall examine closely the possibility of taking recourse to the flexibility instrument.
May I take this opportunity to wish you a Happy Christmas and to thank you for the quality of our joint efforts throughout 2000.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
The prices of new ships have plummeted in recent years, reaching an all-time low in 1999 because of this policy that South Korea is pursuing.
One reason for this is the fact that the 1996 framework agreement on trade and cooperation has still not been ratified by all Member States.
The decision taken by the Council and the Commission to negotiate for four months without continuing the payment of aid and then, after 1 May 2001, to reconsider, on the basis of the progress achieved in these negotiations, whether there are grounds for resuming aid payments for a further period will mean that European shipyards will receive virtually no new orders in the first four months of the year 2001, at least not for the shipping categories in which competition is fiercest.
I concur with his observation that we must take account of the third report that the Commission has drawn up on world shipbuilding.
The committee had to vote especially to ensure that this item was on the agenda for debate today.
It is doing this to gain market share to our detriment, but not only to the detriment of the European Union industry.
It seems to me that the Commissioner must show the industry that he is doing all he can in this context to deal with this external threat to our industry.
In the third report there is a list of actions proposed by the Commission but its observations are rather disappointing: to continue with monitoring, to examine industry's complaint, to remain open to eventual proposals, to pursue efforts, to continue to encourage, to continue to work closely with the industry or to examine the possibilities of measures.
In that context, it is important that the Commission reconsiders the view about extending the time period for temporary support or for permitting temporary support for shipbuilding industries in the European Union until a solution is forthcoming in talks with Korea.
That is why we welcomed the Commission's recent efforts, even if I do take issue with the calculation methods used to show very high levels of European aid in chapter 5 of the Council report of 5 December.
Finally, we were interested to note the Council's willingness to consider aid for research and development.
This point is very important to some enterprises, to enterprises which are, in fact, highly innovative.
We are also worried about the sixth framework programme for research and development: the 'marine technology' line in the fifth programme appears to have disappeared in the draft programme.
Finally, as from 18 December, we are, of course, counting on the 'ships arrangement' being examined at the OECD Group 6 meeting.
Those of us who live in a region such as Asturias, which has suffered four significant cases of restructuring - in mining, in steel, in shipbuilding and in weapons manufacturing - believe that cutting these subsidies, even until May to see whether Korea is condemned by the World Trade Organisation, is very dangerous for the sector.
It is true that Europe is suffering from unfair competition because in Korea, above all, very low salaries are paid and workers are forced to endure abysmal working conditions and, under these circumstances, European workers have no way of competing with them.
However, the Commission' s proposal, which includes aid for research and development, the condemnation of what is happening in Korea to the World Trade Organisation - since they are working with prices which are even below cost - and the possibility that there be transitional aid measures until the case is settled, seems to us to be perhaps a rather weak solution, but at least it is a solution.
In any event, it seems to me, Mr President, that if we cut off subsidies and if the unfair Korean competition continues, the European shipbuilding industry will be fatally wounded.
And I do not believe that we are exaggerating because the different workers' groups have been claiming that over recent years thousands and thousands of jobs have been lost as a result of the restructuring of the shipbuilding industry.
I believe that there are various countries such as Spain, Germany, Italy, Greece and Portugal which, within the Council, and despite the final decision, have asked that aid be continued, and we feel that this aid should be continued in one way or another if we do not wish, once again, to lose thousands of jobs in shipbuilding.
Moreover, Article 7 of Regulation No 1540 from 1998 is still in force.
If there is no level playing field in the shipbuilding sector within the European Union, how can we expect to fight competition from Korea and elsewhere?
In recent weeks, the Commission has told us that the system of subsidies, thanks to which our industry is subsisting, must be removed as from January as a result of a supposed improvement in competitiveness.
On the other hand, after more than two years of ferocious unfair competition on the part of Korea, the Commission has decided, after receiving a formal complaint from all our shipbuilders, to take the case to the World Trade Organisation.
As you all know, it will take more than six months to carry out this procedure.
In the meantime, it is intended that what remains of our shipbuilding industry will subsist thanks to a package of aid to research and development, which will enter into force in January, as Commissioner Monti pointed out yesterday afternoon.
It can be deduced from the conclusions of the meeting that the aid received by our industry has not resolved the problem of Korea.
He then said that after 2 December an investigation would perhaps be opened, and that after that investigation we would have to wait and see what happened, etc.
In these shipyards, 4 000 people once worked, and now just a couple of doormen work in each place, and that is what is happening in the European countries.
Meanwhile, the British company Harland and Wolff, from which Alstom pinched the contract, is blaming its government for failing to back it sufficiently.
For my part, I am against all forms of subsidy for private firms and in favour of governments using the money saved to create jobs directly, especially in the public services and, more to the point, without generating private profit.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measures that have been taken and the position adopted by the Commission on the European shipbuilding industry do not, in my opinion, reflect the serious and indeed critical nature of the situation in that industry, and the same applies to the transactions and outcome of the meeting of industry ministers on 5 December.
In short, a generally successful process is now being placed in extreme jeopardy.
And a summary would be that the shipbuilding industry is being threatened from all sides.
Furthermore, we have flags of convenience in the merchant navy, and ships flying Community flags are being built, or are in danger of being built, outside Europe.
It has been said already here; Korea, Japan, or the threat of China are involved.
Of course, the shipbuilding industry also has to achieve the objectives of the European Union, specifically the rationalisation of the industry, an increase in productivity, an improvement in the competitiveness of the existing shipyards and the defence of the environment.
But in order to achieve that, so that the process may consolidate the shipbuilding industry and its jobs and calm the fears of the families which depend on it, aid will still be necessary beyond 31 December 2000, because the market situation is not one of equality, but of unfairness and of dumping.
It is necessary to provide new stimulus in terms of a sufficient quantity of research and development and also to maintain the operating aid in a way that is legally possible.
Our shipyards can survive, but support is necessary and, in the European context, now is the time to appeal to the solidarity and understanding of the countries which do not have shipyards and for which, in many cases, the sea, and its shipbuilding industry, perhaps have less importance.
In reality, there are limited instruments available to the Commission and Member States in order to defend the EU shipbuilding industry.
Discussions in the OECD have made little progress, very little progress, and the possibility of an internationally binding agreement on shipbuilding seems remote.
The IMF is also cautious on the issue of Korean shipbuilding, as it sees itself as dealing only with macroeconomic conditions rather than with sectoral problems.
The Commission is also ready to explore the possibilities of greater use of national support for research and development and it is noted that the general operating aids will expire after 31 December 2000.
This is why the Commission decided on a defensive temporary support mechanism designed to counter the unfair Korean practices.
The mechanisms would apply until the outcome of that WTO procedure is decided.
On the question of research and development in the shipbuilding sector, the Commission concluded that in addition to the substantial Community funding available under research framework programmes which provide EUR 130 m in five years, the possibility of improving the aids allowed for this purpose should be explored.
The Industry Council of 5 December this year discussed at length the shipbuilding issue based on the Commission's third report and its decision of 29 November 2000.
The Council also took note of the Commission's initiative to propose a temporary support mechanism for EU shipbuilding in case no progress is made with Korea by 1 May 2001.
The Council emphasised that such a support mechanism must not distort competition inside the EU.
The debate is closed.
Francisco Cano was 45 years old, married with two daughters and was an electrician by trade.
He was a worker and, like those who accompanied us yesterday when we awarded the Sakharov Prize, he was a private citizen who served the democratic system which the Spanish have chosen.
I am sure that we are all now united in our vigorous and forthright defence of freedom in Europe, but I wish to say that, more than the solidarity of the Members of the European Parliament, we in Spain need their commitment.
The presence of a broken down nuclear submarine in the waters of the Bay of Algeciras has now unfortunately become a diplomatic conflict between a colonial and nuclear military power and a second category Member State, according to the latest classification in Nice, which does not demand its rights and gives in to infantile explanations.
Ladies and gentlemen, your initial jeers, when I condemned this case on 5 July, and your laughter, have simply increased the desire of the Andalusian people to be respected and not to be humiliated with shameful explanations and to be obliged to endure an unnecessary situation of risk.
He even told us jokes about the yellow submarine or about jurisdiction in the area.
Ladies and gentlemen, this situation cannot be allowed to continue.
Europe and its institutions cannot remain on the outside.
Mr President, with regard to the repair of the British submarine Tireless in Gibraltar, we should remember what we want from the Commission.
What the various parliamentary Groups have expressed in their questions is that we want the Commission to inform us about their representations to the Government of the United Kingdom with a view to ensuring compliance with the obligations contained in the legislation in force and, secondly, to inform us about its initiatives on this issue, in accordance with the powers attributed to it, where relevant, by the Euratom Treaty.
However, we have made an effort to achieve dialogue and mutual understanding, which I believe could allow us to broaden this consensus on the basic issues to a majority in this House.
In both, we express our understanding of the natural concern of the local population.
I would modestly like to suggest that they vote for our motion for a resolution.
I would like to stress the warranted importance of the pact against terrorism agreed between the Popular Party and the Socialist Party, and I believe it is important that, from the European Union' s point of view, progress is made in this direction.
In that intervention I also pointed out the lack of seriousness and respect shown by the British authorities in reclassifying the role of the port of Gibraltar, moving it in the best colonial fashion from category Z to X for the purposes of being able to carry out repairs.
The evasive response that I received from the Commission on that occasion forced me to ask a second question, on 21 September, urging the Commission to ask the British Government to remove the Tireless to a British port, and also to monitor this issue.
The reply received from the Commission was disappointing and unsatisfactory.
For all these reasons, I believe the Commission must be aware of what an anomalous situation we are dealing with and that, firstly, it must demand an immediate halt to any repairs taking place in Gibraltar.
Secondly, it must demand that all possible information be given to the population, as laid down in the Euratom Treaty.
I believe that we can reach the conclusion that there is general alarm about this type of atomic submarine in all the countries of the European Union and throughout the whole world and, therefore, I believe we should recommend that this type of nuclear submarine disappear from the map and from the oceans.
Honourable Members have asked a number of questions relating to the presence of the British nuclear submarine HMS Tireless in Gibraltar for repairs to her nuclear reactor.
I know the Commission knows how concerned they are about this issue and I hope that this debate is heard and read elsewhere.
Honourable Members have also asked a question concerning Article 37 of the Euratom Treaty in relation to the presence of the submarine in Gibraltar and, naturally, I have carefully read the terms of the joint motion for a resolution.
Article 37 of Chapter III concerns plans for the disposal of radioactive waste.
The procedure under Article 37 of the Euratom Treaty relates to the submission of plans for the disposal of radioactive waste so as to enable the Commission to determine whether the implementation of such a plan is liable to result in the radioactive contamination of the water, soil or airspace of another Member State.
The Commission has taken the following action entirely in line with its legal competences.
The United Kingdom authorities replied by letter on 14 November and 1 December.
The Commission is analysing this plan.
The British authorities state that Gibpubsafe provides background information and guidance on action to be taken in the event of a nuclear accident in Gibraltar.
Honourable Members also asked if the port of Gibraltar meets the technical conditions needed for the repair of nuclear submarines.
The Euratom Treaty does not enable the Commission to offer any judgement on the United Kingdom's decision in that regard.
With regard to Article 37, then, due to the fact that a submarine is concerned for the first time, further assessment of the general applicability of Article 37 to such cases is being carried out by the Commission's services.
It is clear, however, that Article 37 relates to the disposal of radioactive waste in general.
Speaking personally, I would encourage the British Government to make that reply public.
The last two complaints have only been received in the last few days and have been sent to the Secretary-General for registration.
Thank you, Commissioner, in particular for your opening remarks and the clarity of your response.
The first point I would like to make is that the repairs to the cooling system of this submarine are already under way.
There is one aspect of the Euratom Treaty which is the transport of contaminated waste between Member States of the European Union; but, of course, Gibraltar is part of the United Kingdom and any contaminated waste will go from one part of the United Kingdom to another part of the United Kingdom, without passing through any other Member State in the European Union.
Therefore, the Euratom Treaty does not apply.
The reactor is shut down.
The submarine is entirely safe.
And the independent nuclear authorities have given permission.
And, of course, any repairs will be to the same standards as they are in the United Kingdom and in 40 years of having nuclear submarines the United Kingdom Navy has never had one incident.
There have been meetings of trade unionists, there have been meetings of the public, there have been public statements, there have been meetings with ministers of the Government of Spain and the Government of Gibraltar and they have entered the submarine; and our experts have gone off to Madrid in order to give information.
Calm cooperation is the method which our Union uses.
I count my very dear Spanish colleagues among my best friends in Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not particularly qualified - in fact none of us is - to deal with this question which is, as the Commissioner has said, a technical problem.
The British Government is acting just as the Russian Government did recently when one of its submarines was damaged.
But I must still point out that, however worrying, this affair also has its amusing side and, if nothing else, illustrates the current state of Europe, the Europe of Nice.
It is significant first and foremost, and this is the point I should like to stress, because it illustrates the current state of our so-called united Europe and, from this point of view, sovereignists may even find it amusing.
Well, here is an example of one Member State treating public opinion in another Member State just as it would in any other country in the world, just as if, at the end of the day, there were no affectio societatis fifty years after the start of the European project, just as if European solidarity had made no progress whatsoever.
And we also hear voices being raised, all highly official and all very pro-European voices, taking advantage of the situation to call for nothing less than disarmament of nuclear submarines, just as if Europe should give nuclear monopoly to other powers.
Mr President, I too would like to extend my deepest sympathy to our Spanish colleagues in the face of the latest terrorist murder by ETA.
It is worth bearing in mind that those responsible for the 28 murders in Omagh have still not been brought to justice.
Turning to the problem of HMS Tireless, it seems to me that this is indicative of a more widespread difficulty in the equipment of the British armed forces as a direct result of policies pursued by the Labour government.
The recall of the submarine fleet has robbed the Royal Navy of a quarter of its fighting vessels and left the Trident and carrier forces with much reduced protection.
And, as we have already heard, it has provided those that do not really have the wider, democratically expressed interest of the people of Gibraltar at heart with an opportunity to make mischief.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your reply which contains new and very important information for us.
The situation we are talking about is extremely serious.
There is no way that this situation can be treated as a bilateral affair between two Member States which belong to a political union.
The Commission, in its clear response two months ago and in its reply today, has been responsible enough to recognise this, although it has not been recognised in the Group of the European People' s Party' s motion for a resolution, a fact which, together with other trivialisations of the affair, has prevented us from supporting it.
This specific issue is more serious than all that, since it affects hundreds of thousands of human beings on Community territory, not only Spaniards, but people of all nationalities and British people in particular.
It is the responsibility of those institutions that the citizens, in relation to the European Union, should stop thinking simply in terms of when their agricultural subsidies will arrive or when their Community funding will arrive and start thinking about what degree of safety the Community institutions can offer them.
In any event, I trust that the Commission will not only fulfil its obligations but that it will persuade the two Member States involved to fulfil theirs.
Mr President, my colleagues and I extend our deepest condolences to the family of the victim of the senseless ETA terrorism in Spain.
As one of the six MEPs nominated to represent Gibraltar until direct elections are held in four years time, it has been partly my responsibility to liaise with the Gibraltar authorities and the London Ministry of Defence to establish the truth of the situation regarding the repairs to the nuclear submarine HMS Tireless.
The interests of the people of Gibraltar and southern Spain are identical in this regard.
Repairing a submarine in situ remains by far the safest option available: towing it would not only be dangerous but would, in any event, require considerable repairs to be done beforehand.
The Spanish Government has until now shown considerable maturity in its response to this situation.
Commissioner, please make your replies specific and guarantee safety in the face of the danger to the Andalusians and the whole population, both the safety of the inhabitants of the colony and that of the citizens of Spain.
It is believed in Andalusia that it was a very grave error to take this nuclear submarine there.
Having said this, we must remember that there has been a lot of contradictory information since May when the nuclear submarine Tireless, belonging to the British navy, chose the port of Gibraltar - which flies the British flag - to have repairs carried out on the cooling system of its nuclear reactor, which, according to the British authorities initially, presented no special difficulty or any danger to the inhabitants of the area.
In this event, we must tell our Spanish Socialist Members - with the greatest of respect - that they have allowed party interests to be placed above State interests.
This is demonstrated by the curious agreement which they reached with British Labour Members to take responsibility away from the people who own the submarine, the people who are responsible for its mooring and remaining in Gibraltar and who are responsible for its repair, and who are also in charge of the port in which it is anchored.
Community competence does not require general data to be submitted for the specific repair operation being undertaken.
I assume that if any Member State had any doubts at all about the way the Commission has handled its competence in this matter, it would have let us know.
For its part, the Commission undertakes to keep honourable Members who have raised these important questions with us fully informed of developments in the coming weeks.
That is why we should also grant asylum, for example, to women who are the victims of sexual mutilation or sexual violence and all the men and women who are the victims of tribal or ethnic violence, as in Algeria or Afghanistan.
In 1980, the UNHCR looked after five million refugees.
I would ask the Commission to re-instate this aid to the UNHCR and also to designate the UNHCR as the coordinating body in all its contracts with NGOs.
Mr President, over the 50-year span that has passed since the UNHCR was founded we have seen that, on both sides of the Cold War, a system for aid for refugees is needed more desperately than ever.
The reasons are, to some extent, different to those of half a century ago, but the need for aid is crucial and, furthermore, more globally spread than it was then.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other humanitarian organisations work together, helping refugees to start a new life in a new country or, where possible, to return home.
The UNHCR is currently helping 5 million displaced persons and some 11.5 million refugees.
The UNHCR has always fought for the protection and welfare of refugees and displaced persons.
It has taken part in specific operations when asked to do so by the Secretary-General or another authority of the United Nations, in agreement with the countries concerned.
In the former Yugoslavia and Timor, the UNHCR has decided to protect all displaced persons and provide humanitarian aid for them, irrespective of whether or not they are refugees.
Mr President, I too wish to express my group's appreciation of the valuable work done by the UNHCR, both on the ground and in policy terms.
There is a desperate need for a body that defends the individual right to asylum and actually looks for best practice in terms of treatment for refugees, not the lowest common denominator and policies of deterrence, which some Member States and political parties seem determined to follow.
As others have said, we also need to ensure adequate funding for this organisation.
Our own contributions have fallen in recent times as have those of our Member States and yet, as others have said, the need grows.
Anyone who was at the recent exhibition in the European Parliament and who studied the pictures and the script dealing with the work of the UNHCR in the world at the moment I think would agree that it is one of the saddest exhibitions that we have ever had the misfortune to see in our Parliament.
Mr President, the Commission of course wants to associate itself with the support given by Parliament to the UNHCR for its 50th anniversary.
As one or two speakers have said, it would be a happier world if the vitally important work that the UNHCR does was unnecessary.
The UNHCR is a key partner for the establishment of an asylum policy in Europe.
Against this background, the Commission has regular consultations with UNHCR.
It was the case, for example, when we prepared our proposals on temporary protection in case of mass influx of displaced persons, on asylum procedures and, currently, on reception conditions for asylum seekers.
On 22 November the Commission adopted a communication on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for those granted asylum valid throughout the Union, which is the final aim fixed in Tampere for the common European asylum system.
Our proposals fit into the Tampere political guidance, in particular the need for a full and inclusive implementation of the 1951 Geneva Convention for maintaining the principle of non-refoulement and a balanced approach between the absolute respect for the right to seek asylum and the legitimate aim to control migration.
They also fit into the comprehensive approach to strengthen partnership with countries of origin.
On the same day the Commission adopted a communication on a Community immigration policy which complements our thinking on migration issues.
The Commission entirely shares the importance attached by the European Parliament to addressing the particular circumstances affecting women seeking international protection in the context of preparing a common European asylum system.
The UNHCR is the Commission's main single partner in the humanitarian field.
The Commission has traditionally worked closely with the UNHCR and it is further enhancing our collaboration.
The first of what is meant to be a series of regular, strategic programming meetings with the UNHCR took place in Brussels on 6 December.
These meetings should help the Commission provide the more predictable and transparent funding that UNHCR requests and has long called for, while at the same time assisting UNHCR in rendering a better service to those in need.
The joint debate is closed.
It seems to us important that we are promoting a political amnesty in Yugoslavia for that recuperation I mentioned, but it also seems to us very important that we roundly condemn the recurrence of incursions and terrorist activities on the borders between Serbia, Albania and Kosovo, because that is a worrying reminder of what happened during the Kosovo conflict, where Western powers held responsibilities.
It is therefore important that this condemnation be accompanied by a promotion of democratic and economic consolidation in Yugoslavia, with regard to which the European Union has much to do and much to say.
Mr President, we welcomed the installation, or election, of Vojislav Kostunica as the new President of Yugoslavia.
Sadly, Mr Kostunica missed his opportunity, on becoming President, to free these political prisoners - the Albanians in particular, but the Serbs too.
He let the opportunity slip, but at least the Albanian political prisoners from Kosovo could have been released if he had handed them over to UNMIK in Kosovo.
And the last problem to which I wish to refer relates to the dreadful occurrences at the border between Serbia and Kosovo.
The fact is that we have a confrontation there between two adversaries, neither of whom has any desire for peace.
We were told that Mr Solana was understanding of these demands but it was also pointed out that - and I quote - the fact of the matter is that it is difficult to do business with a regime such as that of Milosevic.
Our compromise resolution is clearly stipulated in Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3.
Mr Solana, Mr Patten, I ask you both to put the Kostunica regime sufficiently under pressure to ensure these demands are met.
Mr President, it is precisely because Serbia has chosen the democratic path that there is reason for the European Parliament to remind everyone of two fundamental requirements that are made of any democratic state governed by law, namely that political freedom must prevail - one must not be able to be imprisoned for one' s political views or for the ethnic group to which one belongs - and that persons suspected of crimes - whether political leaders or common villains - must be put on trial so that their guilt and responsibility can be examined.
Consequently, all political prisoners in Serbia must be freed.
The new political leadership in Serbia must act in such a way, and I would like to point this out, Mr President, so that the former president and dictator Milosevic, together with his partners in crime, can be brought before the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague.
Mr President, the situation in Yugoslavia has still not been rendered safe and stabilised.
Mr President, I would like to comment on two points of the joint draft resolution which, incidentally, receives my unqualified support.
So much has changed since the autumn: the new authorities in Belgrade have moved fast, for example to restore international contacts; they have moved fast to enable the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to take its place at the United Nations and, as well, to take its place in the OSCE.
The European Union has consistently raised the plight of Kosovar Albanians in prison in Serbia.
We have also raised the position of individuals like Flora Brovina and the very brave Serbian journalist Miroslav Filipovic.
I am pleased that there has been some progress.
Brovina and Filipovic have both been freed.
Indeed, I met Miroslav Filipovic when I was in Belgrade in October - we spent part of an evening together.
Contacts have been established.
I raised the issue of Kosovar Albanian prisoners with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia authorities during my visit to Belgrade on 23 October and will continue to raise these issues with the Yugoslav Federal Republic authorities.
I can assure honourable Members that it is an issue which I will take up - not least as a result of this debate - on the next visit I make to Belgrade after the elections on 23 December.
I share honourable Members' concern about the situation in the Presevo valley.
The attacks are attacks on democracy: the new democracy in Serbia and the prospects of democracy in Kosovo.
We are running three schools for democracy projects in the area and we are looking to help with fuel supplies in the area as well.
The joint debate is closed.
Mr President, the third generation agreements between the European Union and the countries of Latin America are characterised by the existence of a democratic clause that is the basis for, and supports, all relations.
This clause was agreed in the Palacio de la Moneda in March 1990, and I am well aware of this because I had the privilege of being there when President Alwyn took over, following the vote which put an end to General Pinochet' s regime.
There is no need to say that the logical consequence of this clause is the affirmation of the principle of separation of powers as an essential element of the democratic system and of the Rule of Law, and that this principle means and implies the independence of the judicial powers in their actions.
However, Mr President, I think that today the best support that the European Union can give to the process of consolidation of democracy in Chile and to the civic maturity demonstrated by the citizens of the country in its transition process, is to have an ambitious agreement for political association, economic coordination and cooperation between the European Union and Chile.
In order to do this, Mr President, and I am particularly addressing the Commission, in my opinion we need to modify the current negotiation directives and overcome a blatant discrimination compared with other geographical areas, which links the conclusion of this agreement with the completion of the negotiations of the new round of the World Trade Organisation.
There are many Chileans, for example, who now live in Europe as a result of the dictatorship of General Pinochet, who came into power by overthrowing a democratic government, who established himself over the dead body of President Allende and who, after a long dictatorship, lost power because the Chilean people were not prepared to continue supporting him.
The Chilean Government guaranteed that in Chile General Pinochet would have a fair trial and General Pinochet has indeed now lost his immunity and the Chilean judicial authorities are initiating proceedings against him.
Here we cannot replace the judicial authority once it has legal power over the case of General Pinochet, and we welcome the fact that the Chilean Government has also decided to allow the judicial authorities to operate.
I think that it is a good opportunity to strengthen our links with the Chilean Government, to enable the Chilean Government to authorise the judicial authority to bring proceedings against General Pinochet and, at the same time, to take advantage of this opportunity to give our support to the Chilean Government.
I recall that in the European Parliament mission to Argentina, former President Alfonsín said to us that sometimes democracies only remember other democracies post mortem, that is, when there is no longer democracy.
Now that we have democracy in Chile, let us help that democratic government and democratic nation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say a few words on the joint resolution, which will, of course, be passed.
Secondly, it would be unacceptable if we failed to call on the Chilean army to stop interfering in the judicial process in Chile.
Some groups have argued that we should not be talking to the Chilean army.
Going on to the subject of Chile, I would like to express the confidence, the approval and the satisfaction, on the part of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, that the resolution contains some important points, such as respect for the power of Chilean justice, for the Government, for allocating responsibility and, above all, being able to provide support from the European Union for the democratic process with real and positive agreements.
Mozambique Mr President, although this Parliament is bringing southern Africa back to our agenda and particularly Mozambique, one of the poorest countries in the world, which, as we know, was devastated exactly a year ago by a huge natural disaster.
The international community must exercise its right of democratic vigilance, not in order to interfere in the internal affairs of an independent country but as a precautionary and preventative political procedure.
This Parliament agrees not to forget any factor that may jeopardise the peace and the democratic future of Mozambique.
With time we all learn something and, in this exercise of political common sense, Parliament forgets nothing but remembers everything, and believes that those responsible in Mozambique will read and understand the essence of this resolution, in the certainty that we remain ready and willing to help them without any paternalism of any kind.
We in this group extend our profound solidarity and sympathy to the people of Mozambique as we did earlier this afternoon to the people in Spain.
It is significant that paragraphs 3 and 4 of the resolution before us read that Parliament condemns any use of violence in political disputes and calls for respect for the rule of law and calls on all the democratic forces in the country to consolidate peace and the democratic process.
These are words that we should bear in our hearts.
I say that in the knowledge that these are foundational beliefs for the parties of the European Free Alliance and for the Greens in this House.
Turkey Mr President, we in the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left would have liked to have approved a resolution on the human rights situation and the situation in the Turkish prisons following this debate.
As we all know, the serious and systematic infringements of human rights in Turkey are continuing.
The oppression of the political left and national minorities such as Kurds is particularly intense, but other national minorities such as Assyrians are also being oppressed.
Mr President, before beginning my speech I would also like to join in condemning the attack that cost the life of someone elected by the people, and of an activist and councillor of the Partido Popular in Catalonia in Spain.
Having said this, I would like to talk very briefly about a delicate situation, because in this debate we can be carried away by our emotions and talk forever about the little respect that there is for human rights in Turkey.
Mr President, every country in Europe, and France in particular, needs to respond to the distress of prisoners by considering how to reform the methods and structures which govern penitentiary administrations so as to show greater respect for the dignity of prisoners, irrespective of the seriousness of their crime.
It would therefore appear to be perfectly logical to call on all countries, especially those who are candidates for membership of the European Union, to support this move.
Having said that, our debate here today was provoked by our reaction to the hunger strike currently taking place in Turkish prisons.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, may I express the solidarity of my Group with all those who are on hunger strike in Turkish prisons.
Tunisia Mr President, allow me to start by welcoming Imen Derwiche and Nourredine Ben Tisha to the public gallery; they are young Tunisian students who were tortured and imprisoned for several months.
The very existence of the oldest human rights league in Africa and the Arab-speaking world, the Tunisian League, is under threat, despite being recognised by President Ben Ali.
Its spokesman, Moncef Marzouki, risks being sentenced to over 10 years in prison at a hearing the day after tomorrow, on 16 December.
Finally, political prisoners have been on hunger strike in prison, some of them for two months.
Some, such as Béchir Habid, are in a critical condition.
One example is Mehdi Zougah, a French-Tunisian citizen, who was arrested at Tunis airport on 11 August.
The Tunisian authorities should pay heed to the concern and outrage being expressed in this Chamber.
They should listen to the representative of the UN Secretary-General for human rights who expressed her acute concern on 7 December, calling for an end to the practice of harassing defenders of human rights.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Tunisia has undertaken, within the framework of its association agreement with the European Union, to respect human rights and democratic principles.
Following numerous violations of human rights in Tunisia, Parliament adopted a resolution on 15 June 2000.
Even if a few passports have been returned, even if President Ben Ali delivered a speech on the freedom of the press and improved prison conditions on the anniversary of his taking power, there has been a marked deterioration in the human rights situation in Tunisia.
The human rights league has been suspended, its premises placed under seal and its president, Moktar Trifi, has been summoned to appear in court, as you have just heard, on 25 December.
The spokesman of the Tunisian National Council for Liberties, Professor Moncef Marzouki, is due to appear in court this week, on 16 December, and risks ten years in prison.
The civil association RAID ATTAC Tunisia, the leaders of which were imprisoned at the beginning of the year, has still not been authorised.
The lawyer acting for many political prisoners, Radhia Nasraoui, cannot visit her clients in prison.
When militants and those in charge of these associations decide to meet in order to celebrate the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, their houses are surrounded by police and anyone trying to enter is harassed in the street by men dressed in civilian clothes.
Finally, we call on the Commission to re-examine the conditions under which the MEDA Democracy programme is being applied because we find it incredible that the Tunisian authorities have retained a right of control.
We in liberal camps are very concerned at this development.
The legal proceedings against Professor Moncef Marzouki and the lawyer, Nejib Hosni, have been mentioned here.
The second problem is actually only part of a pattern of harassment.
It concerns the dissolution of Tunisia' s League for Human Rights.
The young student Béchir Habid has been on hunger strike since 18 October.
The cooperation between the EU and Tunisia is positive.
Mr President, first of all I would like to express my thanks for the solidarity expressed by other colleagues due to the recent assassination by the terrorist group ETA.
My Group, like this Parliament, is particularly sensitive about the human rights situation in Tunisia and in the rest of the world.
This concern is behind the fact that, in recent weeks, I have met twice with the chairman of the Tunisian human rights league.
There have also been considerable improvements in the access and incorporation of women into political, economic and social life, and I also do not think that we should forget the element of stability and moderation that the country represents in the face of fundamentalism.
All this does not mean, of course, that this economic progress should not be followed by more progress in the political sphere and that there should not also be progress in the uncompleted reform process, particularly in terms of rights and fundamental freedoms.
The reforms announced by President Ben Ali in November are precisely in the spirit and the letter of the last resolution adopted by this Parliament, and what is needed now is for them to become a reality.
For all these reasons, Mr President, as well as our irrevocable and undeniable commitment to human rights and to the Tunisian league, I would like us to also be capable, in a balanced manner, without being overly positive or negative, of considering the general situation of the country in an objective manner, and of comparing the situation with what other African countries are experiencing, and in particular, its immediate neighbours, Algeria and Libya, which are not exactly a model of respect for human rights.
I stood in front of the prison in Tunis on 9 April and watched hundreds of policemen breaking up a demonstration of solidarity organised by democrats.
These people are hounded - such as Hamma Hammami, sentenced to 9 years in prison, or Moncef Marzouki who, as you have heard, is due to go on trial the day after tomorrow.
Any meeting, any gathering, such as the national conference organised by the Tunisian National Council for Liberties on 10 December, is effectively banned due to police violence.
The vote by the House on the demanding motion before us will show that, no, we have decided not to throw in the towel.
The call for a meeting of the Association Council on the human rights situation in Tunisia should be followed by real action... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us not get carried away, please.
And yet, here is a country which can lay claim to many spectacular successes during its development - which is perhaps the first human right.
One cannot help but see all this as some sort of strange put-up job and I should like to say to Tunisia that, even if Europe appears to be turning its back on it, France shall continue to treat it as one of its main partners. (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, let me respond briefly to the four important debates which we have just held on human rights issues.
The Commission would like to thank the European Parliament for the initiative taken in proposing various draft resolutions on the Pinochet case and the consolidation of democracy in Chile.
The Government of Chile has very wisely refrained from intervening in the independence of the judiciary.
The Commission is, and always has been, fully committed to respect for democratic principles and fundamental human rights and that is why the Commission has lent substantial and tangible support to the process of transition to democracy in Chile.
Budget line B7-703 - democratisation process in Latin America - was created in 1990 in order to support the transition processes in Chile and also in Central America, and was later extended to all of Latin America.
Our experience in Chile in the field of democracy and human rights has therefore been crucial for later projects in other countries.
As the House knows, the European Union is in the process of negotiating an agreement establishing a political and economic association with Chile.
I went to Santiago myself a few weeks ago just before the third round of negotiations with Chile.
I can already say that the Chilean Government seems in full agreement with this approach to our negotiations.
Both the President and I spoke at the same conference in Chile and, I am pleased to say, made remarkably similar speeches on what should be the main focus of our efforts in following up the Rio Summit before the summit in Madrid which will take stock of the progress that has been made in our important relationship with the countries of Latin America.
The tragic events of last month took by surprise not only the international community but also most of Mozambican society.
These included the discussions with President Chissano on his 16 November visits to President Prodi and Commissioner Nielson followed in Gabarone at the European Union SADC meeting with conversations with the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Public declarations were made after these events deploring the use of violence and supporting measures to bring to justice those found to be responsible for it.
They met the Minister of Foreign Affairs on 8 December and we have been in contact with the presidency both in Europe and in Mozambique to gauge the appropriate level of European Union political initiative.
Several honourable Members referred to the situation of prisoners in Turkey.
The Commission shares the concern expressed about the situation of those Turkish prisoners who are currently on hunger strike.
We welcome the recent decision by the Turkish Minister of Justice to postpone the transfer of prisoners to F-type prisons, which were well described by the honourable Member, for an indefinite period of time and his wish to reach what I understand is called a "social compromise" on this question.
The Commission finally recalls that the improvement of detention conditions in Turkish prisons is addressed in the accession partnership for Turkey which was adopted by the Commission on 8 November and it is a condition therefore for accession.
Finally, honourable Members gave me the opportunity to present last June the Commission's position on relations with Tunisia during the plenary session.
I was able to explain the reasons why the Commission considers it appropriate at this stage to make use of the positive instruments available under the Euro-Mediterranean partnership, namely political dialogue and Community finance, in dealing with human rights in Tunisia.
Responsibility for prisons has been transferred to the Justice Ministry, certain political prisoners have been pardoned and the congress of the Tunisian Human Rights League passed off without incident.
Our heads of mission in Tunis are following the current court case closely and stepping up contacts with the Tunisian authorities on these cases.
On the financial front, and this responds directly to the important point made by the honourable Member and it is an area where we have some experience in other countries, Commission representatives in Tunis are stepping up their efforts to launch very soon two programmes: one in support of journalists and the other in support of non-governmental organisations.
Lastly, I would like to mention the crucial role played by Parliament, which has contributed to raising awareness and intensifying dialogue in these issues through parliamentary visits and through public debates like this one.
I hope this leads to an increasing convergence of positions on human rights with our Tunisian partners.
Côte d' Ivoire The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Côte d'Ivoire has got itself into a vicious circle and the situation is going from bad to worse.
If this policy continues, there will be a bloodbath, just like the bloodbaths we have seen in other countries.
If we wish to safeguard our credibility, we must be firm with Laurent Gbagbo in refusing to sanction this dangerous, uncontrollable slide off course.
They know full well that an ethnic or separatist conflict in Côte d'Ivoire could throw the entire region into a state of unrest.
Mr President, Commissioner, we must not stand by and watch.
Mr President, for months the news from Côte d' Ivoire has been causing justified alarm within European public opinion and the corresponding concern in our Parliament.
That turbulent situation surprised many because it was taking place in a calm and relatively prosperous country, with institutions that functioned reasonably well and with a society living in a satisfactory degree of harmony.
In Côte d' Ivoire the degradation has been dramatic in terms of the economy.
The collapse of cocoa prices, the crushing weight of foreign debt and the increase in fuel prices, among other factors, have led to an internal situation of growing tension, a notable decline in the social climate and an increase in unemployment and poverty.
The political process put together to recover democratic legitimacy did not fulfil the hopes that some had placed in its procedures.
After a more than dubious presidential election, the European Parliament was determined to call for the legislative elections of 10 December to be free, fair and pluralist.
The most serious thing is that, in 32 constituencies, elections did not even take place, which makes the crisis of legitimacy even more obvious.
We therefore need to create the political conditions to put an end to exclusion, to facilitate the participation of the RDR and other political forces in the democratic process and to ensure, at least, in these circumstances, while awaiting the elections in January, that a path can be opened up towards democratic normality.
In order for the elections to really unblock the current situation, we first need to create the conditions for those elections to be held in a climate of civil peace and reconciliation.
That is exactly what has happened also in the Côte d'Ivoire, and in an even grosser way, as I understand it.
We in this Parliament must stand up for the rights of the people of Côte d'Ivoire - and everywhere else - to a fair and properly organised democratic system with a non-partisan judiciary.
We are aware that in this case the European Union has some purchase through Article 96 of the Cotonou Partnership Agreement.
Mr President, we cannot subscribe to this condemnation of the xenophobic and ethnic racist policy of the Côte d' Ivoire administration without, at the same time, condemning the unspeakable policy of the French government authorities, which not only support the Ivorian president and his policies but which are also making diplomatic overtures to various governments on his behalf.
The French state could not care less what Ivorian leaders impose on their own people, provided that they faithfully serve the interests of the major French companies in Côte d' Ivoire which, both during and after colonialism, have always made huge profits by plundering the country and exploiting its working classes.
The democratic process in Côte d'Ivoire is well under way.
The leader of the coup d'état in December 1999 has been beaten in general elections - a remarkable feat which would have been unheard of twenty years ago - by a candidate who may rightly call himself the legitimate president of the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire.
I would add that the third countries taking advantage of this situation to destabilise Côte d'Ivoire - presumably because they cannot control it - will not prevent democracy from making headway in Africa, especially in French-speaking Africa and Côte d'Ivoire, as it did in Senegal at the beginning of the year.
In view of the current situation the Commission intends to propose the opening of consultations on the basis of Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement.
The purpose of these consultations will be to assess the situation in detail with our ACP partners, including Côte d'Ivoire.
These consultations will include a reassessment of the terms of European Union cooperation with Côte d'Ivoire.
We believe that this should be sufficient to cover medical needs related to the violence at the beginning of December.
I want to assure Parliament once again that we will keep it fully involved with the outcome and the progress of the discussions on Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement.
During the debate on the British submarine in Gibraltar you indicated that the Gibraltar Public Safety scheme document would be made available to colleagues of the House.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will be taken in a few minutes.
Mr President, Commissioner, please accept my apologies for the attitude that I have shown during the debate.
Thank you, Mr Bautista Ojeda.
The debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed.
But, according to my information, all the other groups have withdrawn their motions.
Mr Wurtz, I too should like to be as sure as you would like to be, but, in the absence of any written document, I can only be sure they have been withdrawn if each of the political groups formally declares whether or not it is withdrawing its resolution.
Mr President, on behalf of the Greens, we also withdraw our motion for a resolution.
Thank you, Commissioner Patten.
