It takes into account the principles of a risk-based approach to a comprehensive and integrated food and feed chain from farm to fork, including controls within the Community as well as controls on feed and food imported from third countries.
The Council and the majority of the European Parliament are now taking a convergent view on this text, which I am glad to accept in its entirety. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I would like to mention that I have only just received the amendments in my own language – and there are 229 of them.
I would therefore like to ask for more time so that I, and everyone else, can work through them, and to ask you to postpone the vote until tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Mrs&#160;Klass, this is not the right time to make this request, not least because any request of this type will be put to the vote and submitted for decision in plenary.
I wish to thank all those of my fellow MEPs who have contributed their opposition to, and support for, this process.
It has been hard, but it has been extremely constructive.
I am exceptionally fortunate that the inspections now extend to include animal health and welfare.
Another aspect is the transport of animals through Europe, and it is important that this is at least included in the control programme.
Parliament has also contributed the control of labelling while the inspections are under way.
The fact that the whole chain is to be included – right from the field to the shop, dining room and restaurant – is the principle that of course permeates the whole of the food safety legislation.
A consumer group, animal protection group or local media organisation will be able to request the inspection reports and thus be responsible for this function, telling people how things appear behind the scenes.
The funding of duties is a very controversial issue – not between the Commission, the Council and myself but within Parliament.
Not all countries within the EU are exactly alike.
It is important for us in the European Parliament to protect the small producers of unusual products that are the essence of Europe’s cultural heritage in the area of food.
I would appeal to you all firstly to vote today despite all the problems that exist and, secondly, to fall in with my compromise vote list.
Animal welfare is also extremely important.
We have to ensure that consumers can tell from the labelling which products have met those high animal welfare standards in Europe.
Consumers should also be able to see from the labelling which products have not met those high standards.
In broad terms, we must welcome these controls, but we have to be careful that we do not over-regulate. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am speaking this morning on behalf of my colleague Mr Schnellhardt, who unfortunately cannot be with us.
The participation of stakeholders in the food sector in food safety has been extended, responsibility has been clearly defined, and official controls have been shaped on a more scientific basis and clearly structured.
It has to be said, unfortunately, that the treatment given to this regulation in this House is not in line with the usual parliamentary procedures.
Although we welcome the inclusion of animal welfare in this regulation, we are critical of the nature of the provisions relating to it.
The proposal will of course provide a uniform basis for calculating the fees for inspections in Europe, but it does nothing to eliminate the distortion in competition resulting from enormous differences in the level of fees, something that has been criticised for years.
The inadequate reference to national control plans and to the financing of ad hoc controls means that this procedural approach exposes companies to financial risk.
Transparency is an important condition for food safety, and we welcome the compromise reached.
Granting small businesses a discount enables us to accommodate this category of business, which is very important within the food sector, to some degree.
My third comment concerns the proper, fair application of this legislation.
It must not be the case that a cargo is rejected in Rotterdam on food safety grounds yet subsequently enters the EU via a different route.
Fourthly, our group warmly welcomes the assistance that the EU is planning to give to developing countries to help them build capacity in order that they can comply with European food safety rules.
This kills two birds with one stone: the EU increases the safety of imported food products, and developing countries obtain important assistance in taking measures capable of improving their food safety situation and thus their trading position.
We hope that this milestone brings an important piece of work over the past five years to a conclusion, and we look forward to hearing the Commission’s answers. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the compromise that has been reached among four groups ensures that this Regulation on controls can soon be published in the Official Journal and can largely enter into force on 1&#160;January&#160;2006.
It was a great pleasure for my group to take part in the discussions on the compromise, not least on account of the reference to criminal law in Amendment&#160;No&#160;206.
I regret that the Council is not currently taking part in the debate or expressing an opinion on the compromise that we have reached among four groups.
The second is the explicit statement of the need for controls to be carried out without prior warning.
The fifth is the imposition of quality conditions on laboratories.
The sixth is the need for cooperation between national and regional authorities, as the MPA case has taught us.
Finally, since international networks are very often active in this field, international cooperation between control and customs services, and also between authorities, is tremendously important, as is the introduction of liaison bodies.
This particular proposal addresses some clear weaknesses which have been highlighted in the control services.
The Commission initially sought to introduce criminal sanctions, but faced with the Member States' unanimous opposition to this approach, the Commission wisely decided to settle for a statement on the matter.
As regards the issue of scope and whether the proposed regulations should take in all aspects of animal health and welfare, or only those aspects impinging on food safety, I am glad that in the final analysis the Council accepted the wider scope that was urged by Parliament.
The fees issue was also hotly contested.
It seems to me that, pursuant to Article 175 of the Treaty, it would be illegal to impose penalties of the kind that the Commission is proposing.
As regards charges, in the case of this particular proposal, whilst it is true that different charges being levied in different countries is a distortion of the free market, common charges would not reflect the differences in cost of inspections in, for example, Lithuania as opposed to Germany.
We now seem to have a balance where the cost will reflect the actual cost of those inspections, but it is possible that there will be loopholes, particularly in the way that some countries define 'small operators'.
Yes, I support exemptions for small operators, but I can see how some countries that want to subsidise production in certain remote areas would use that definition.
Secondly, on the issue of 'naming and shaming', nobody could be against freedom of information – we are all in favour of transparency and openness – and not to be in favour of it would be to support secrecy.
We need to be careful, for example, to look at the situation in the UK, where if you are prosecuted you appear in the paper, but if minor infringements are discovered, such as a cracked tile in a slaughterhouse or a piece of mouse dirt in a restaurant, this does not appear on the front page of the local newspaper.
In conclusion, whilst I appreciate the good intentions, we need to look at this more carefully to make sure that we do not once again come up against the law of unintended consequences. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are in the presence of the old hands today – that group of Members who have tried to deal with the questions of food safety and hygiene in cooperation with the Commissioner throughout this parliamentary term.
The institutions have come together.
There is a big question mark concerning these ports of entry and recent experience shows that we have to deal with this issue.
Finally, I am particularly glad that we have reached some agreement on the issue of sanctions.
The intensity of controls has also been improved, so that national control reports are now also required.
That remains the weak point in all the Member States.
Because what we need is food controls … &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would also like to congratulate Mrs&#160;Paulsen on her report.
Some very important aspects have been included, as many other people have mentioned.
I am especially pleased with the inclusion of animal welfare.
The Commission regrets that its proposal to introduce penal sanctions is not supported by Council and Parliament.
On the other hand, it notes that this issue has already been submitted to the Court of Justice for determination in another case.
In these circumstances and taking into account the overall political context of this procedure, the Commission is prepared to withdraw Article&#160;55(2) and (3) of this proposal, awaiting the Court's determination of the issue and reserves the right to propose again measures providing for criminal sanctions in this field.
I know from her extensive experience in dealing with food safety issues in this House, that she will be aware that similar sensitive provisions have been included in the hygiene regulation.
Mr Parish raised the question of import controls.
Third countries must give guarantees on compliance with EU law.
There is already a system in respect of veterinary controls, where there is a form that deals with this issue of prior notification.
As he probably knows, animal welfare aspects are not included in the WTO (World Trade Organisation) sanitary and phytosanitary code and there is therefore no international consensus on the organisation of controls in respect of animal welfare rules with our trading partners.
The Commission's proposal is to conclude agreements with third countries on animal welfare.
The Commission has also raised the matter in the OIE in order to bring the matter on to the international agenda.
There was a conference in Paris a couple of weeks ago that I attended, where the OIE has clearly indicated its intention to upgrade the whole question of animal welfare in international trade.
For this reason, the proposal provides for a standard level in the veterinary sector.
With regard to control measures, the proposal will contribute to reaching a harmonised level on import controls.
There are a number of reasons for this and some have been referred to by a number of speakers earlier today.
The fees in several Member States are regulated at local level, which results in different fees within a single, individual Member State.
It is impossible for the Commission to exercise its control powers in view of the complicated methods for auditing national or regional financing systems.
To conclude, I confirm that the Commission accepts a substantial number of the amendments that have been tabled.
The debate is closed.
Counterfeiters and pirates undermine legitimate business and culture as they copy end products that have involved considerable investment.
Counterfeiting and piracy carried out on a commercial scale are nowadays believed to be even more attractive than drug trafficking, and its perpetrators are linked more and more to large-scale organised crime.
This proposed directive is the Community's answer to this threat.
It is not an easy proposal since it touches upon issues which involve many interests, sectors and different ministries in Member States, for instance culture, trade and industry, economy and justice.
There has been some very sensitive, sometimes emotional, lobbying both for and against this directive, and I appreciate the sense of responsibility that Parliament has shown in the face of this pressure.
However, the need for action is clear and not in dispute.
The Commission believes that, with the text agreed by Coreper on 16 February, we have reached the right moment for a positive decision.
The compromise text constitutes an appropriate balance among all interests involved, including rights-holders, commercial users, consumers and intermediaries.
The proposal constitutes a considerable degree of harmonisation and it will provide us with an effective level playing field on sanctions and remedies.
This fulfils the commitments made by both the Commission and the European Parliament in a communication of November 2000, which resulted from consultations carried out in the context of a Green Paper in 1998.
In view of the safeguarding of the necessary balance and effectiveness of this proposal, the Commission supports the text on the table today, as proposed via the compromise amendments jointly tabled by four political groups.
The compromise text is thus the result of joint and very intensive efforts from all three institutions.
Both the Committee on Industry, and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market have given the issues at stake great thought, the fruit of which now lies before us in the form of amendments to be voted in this plenary.
Consequently, the Commission endorses the amendments that go along the lines of the agreed compromise text: Amendments Nos 1 to 52 and 56 to 100.
Amendments Nos 53 to 55 and 103 to 113 deviate from the text and must be rejected.
The Commission feels that these amendments would not contribute to the balance and effectiveness that has been achieved in the compromise and, in particular, would not be in conformity with the horizontal approach.
The directive should apply to infringements of all intellectual property rights.
Being aware of the need to which I have referred, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market adopted on 27 November 2003 the amended report on the respect of intellectual property rights by 28&#160;votes with 3 abstentions.
The definition of commercial purposes excludes acts committed by consumers acting in good faith who do not gain direct or indirect economic or commercial advantage.
And perhaps you are not aware of this obvious fact because I am doubtful whether, in this case, the European Parliament has fulfilled its duties properly.
But sometimes we should ask ourselves whether we also impose this exercise in responsibility on the Council.
I believe it is no mistake to say that the text approved is going to be the laughing stock of commentators and is going to cause many difficulties for the Member States when it comes to incorporating it into their internal law.
The Council’s desire to prevent the European Commission’s initiative from containing, for example, criminal law provisions, has created such confusion between civil sanctions, administrative procedures and administrative sanctions, that I cannot imagine what the Member States are going to do when it comes to applying it.
We are clearly going to approve this text, but with great scepticism.
We are all familiar with fake, cheap Rolex watches, Lacoste shirts, with the cheap imitation Levi Strauss jeans, Louis Vuitton bags, and many other products besides.
Music and films on CD and DVD are being pirated.
It is of course intended to have a deterrent effect on product pirates and counterfeiters.
The directive provides a process-based framework here.
The criminal penalties originally included in the draft have been taken out again – also thanks to the pressure exerted by our rapporteur – and the directive stipulates that sanctions should only be applicable in a fair and proportionate manner.
There are provisions that go beyond these mechanisms in order to prevent young people from being criminalised.
The directive, including the amendments we are to vote on tomorrow and which I hope will be accepted, provides a good, fair compromise between the interests of all the parties involved, and I urge you to support the line taken by the rapporteur. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we all know that counterfeiting and product piracy has reached epidemic proportions.
The UK's Anti-Counterfeiting Group has estimated that as many as 4&#160;000 people lose their jobs as a result of this trade and that the GBP 1.75 billion lost in VAT alone could build four new hospitals a year.
It is a fake, but was sold to consumers on the high street at full price.
There is also a more sinister side to this counterfeiting and piracy.
I would like to congratulate the Irish presidency for having agreed a text which is balanced and proportionate and whose actions are focused on tackling genuine and serious acts of infringement.
Moreover, action can only follow, as a result of a justified and proportionate request by the claimant, on the authority of a competent judge or court and only for intentional infringements on a commercial scale.
The directive reinforces judicial discretion and ensures that remedies are fair, equitable, proportionate and justified.
Nor can it rewrite it or change e-Commerce law, in particular the responsibility of ISPs as defined in Articles 12 to 15 of the e-Commerce directive.
It cannot undermine the right to private copying as provided for in the Copyright directive, and in fact reinforces that right and protects the right of privacy.
Article 23 provides for an assessment of the impact of the directive and Parliament will take that seriously.
The intention is to show that it is applied in a balanced and proportionate way and it should be stressed that the directive must not be used to abuse the right of legitimate competitors to enter the market place, in particular that for generic medicines.
Finally, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her willingness to compromise, and the Irish presidency for its determination in forcing all parties to come to agreement.
We must today take the bold step of voting this law onto the statute book.
We must give judges and courts in the enlarged EU the option of a range of enforcement tools.
It is time for the EU to get tough on counterfeiting and piracy.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market took a rather different view, but, ultimately, I think that this compromise is a start, and indeed I hope that it is adopted.
We finally have recognition of intellectual property rights throughout Europe.
As many have now said, counterfeiting and piracy within Europe are growing hand over fist.
We are not just talking about pirated CDs, as some people think, but about a broad spectrum of products that are being counterfeited.
I have seen toys that contain cadmium.
A large number of ambiguities that lobbyists have been using up to now as arguments for voting against it have been removed from the proposal.
This is my first point on consumers.
Over the last few years, discussions concerning intellectual property and industrial property have highlighted the difficulties relating to borders.
If we take account of the views of industrialists and consumers, should we not also consider artists, especially as they are always referred to in connection with the need to combat piracy?
There are two specific policy areas where reasonable agreement is important.
I therefore urge you to give a large measure of support to these two amendments on patents and the scope of the directive.
There is a good reason why the conciliation has its rules and its methods of proceeding: in order that a large number of MEPS, and Parliament itself, might be involved in the debate and in clarifying the uncertainties in the text that little by little takes shape.
This also means that it is not, then, four or five representatives from political groups that commandeer the procedure to achieve a compromise text a few days from the vote, with orders for MEPs and individual MEPs in the groups to toe the party line and not to touch what four or five MEPs have decided in this early conciliation.
We then notice the implications in connection with this report.
If this were the case, if this were also your intention, then you would, for example, be able to adopt Amendment No&#160;101&#160;–&#160;which we tabled with some other Members&#160;–&#160;which explicitly limits the scope to intentional infringements for commercial gain.
The truth is that, even though criminal sanctions have been removed from the compromise, preventative measures remain that are very dangerous regardless of the outcome of the inquiry and the procedure.
The risk is adopting a system which thus makes it simple, and even partly up to private companies themselves, to search, confiscate goods and take preventive measures that risk putting the market in a situation of uncertainty and instability, where those who are most organised in having lawyers and legal consultations&#160;–&#160;large corporations&#160;–&#160;will best succeed in scaring and blackmailing small and very small businesses and also the end consumer.
Perhaps because the laws on intellectual property are laws that have been superseded to a large extent by digital technology.
In order to achieve framework legislation, I believe that a lot of work will have to be done in this Parliament’s next parliamentary term.
The report is directed solely at crimes committed on a commercial scale and not more generally at infringements of intellectual property rights regardless of how or by whom they are committed.
A lot of attention clearly needs to be given to this point in order to find a point of balance.
I do, however, remember that, from the outset, the objective in terms of protecting copyright was to combat and stop the phenomenon which, alongside counterfeiting and piracy, allows material protected by copyright to be used illegally to the detriment of the work of all content providers who are legitimately building up the value chain for the use of audiovisual products.
Particularly in future, we need to reflect further on the issue of the amount of private use that has increased exponentially thanks to the impetus provided by digital technology via broadband or any other advanced technological platform.
In this area, too, we need to consider the consequences of the new legislation on telecommunications.
In fact, not only does the wording of the proposal for a directive lose sight of some important aims, but it does not even constitute an effective deterrent against infringement because, in the long process in which the various proposals were made, the possibility disappeared of compensating for the two-foldprejudice in the form of loss of profit and loss suffered.
I think that it is really important that the final phrase of Recital 23a is reintroduced as a final paragraph of this article.
In the absence of such regulatory specification, you might think in many countries that if&#160;–&#160;after the person in possession of counterfeit goods in good faith has paid compensation&#160;–&#160;the judge waived the prohibition of the sale, and exclusion from the commercial chain, of these products, they would be authorised for any commercial use.
If we think, for example, about the whole medical field, this becomes totally unacceptable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this morning’s debate creates great confusion, because the positions we are hearing are very different.
The problem is that the current procedure for approving legislation in the European Union, before the adoption of the European Constitution, is a truly elaborate, complicated and difficult procedure.
The recently signed Interinstitutional Agreement intends to eliminate these difficulties, but we know that that is going to be very difficult to achieve in practice.
The situation has worsened over the past three years, and all kinds of product are now found, even current consumer goods.
The positive points in the report include the fact that the Directive is to apply to all infringements ofintellectual property rights.
Member States must also ensure that any serious infringements of intellectual property rights are classified as criminal offences punishable by criminal penalties.
I, therefore, strongly support the idea of introducing a directive of this kind.
I say that without any personal discourtesy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to support my colleagues who have taken a very broad-ranging view of this important proposal.
It is about the future of the European economy and about the ability of any manufacturer who has intellectual property rights, whether protected by patent, copyright or registered design, or indeed by any other form of ownership, over a creative work or design that they have genuinely originated, to be able to protect and sell their products in a legitimate way, reap the profits and create jobs within the European Union.
We are talking about the procedure and timescale because we all know that as from the enlargement of the European Union on 1 May there will be major concerns about the inability of intellectual property owners to enforce their rights across the enlarged European Union.
We are in the real world now, and this is not some theoretical piece of legislation but something that will actually protect jobs in our constituencies.
As we move towards a world in which more and more goods are coming into the European Union from countries, such as China, that are new members of the World Trade Organisation and where intellectual property enforcement is at best very weak, we have to be able to protect ourselves in a legitimate and balanced way.
That is what is at stake, and those of you who are contemplating amending this proposal with the result that it is not in place on 1 May will have to answer to manufacturers in your constituency when a container load of counterfeit goods from China arrives through an accession country on their doorstep in June.
You will have to answer for the impact this will have on local jobs and local manufacturers. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is important that the common position clearly focuses on commercial activity and the work of professional criminals.
The counterfeiting of food products has risen by 75% and that of CDs by 15 000%, which is almost half of all musical recordings.
The different practices and laws that exist in the Member States would make it an especially awkward task.
After all, there is already a directive in force regarding the harmonisation of copyright, and, besides, there is the Directive on e-commerce, which regulates, among other things, the rights and obligations of service providers.
This new Directive on enforcement officially declares people making illegal copies to be thieves, but everyone has known for a long time that pirating of software, CDs and DVDs is a punishable offence.
I can say that I am pleased that the compromise now restricts the scope of the directive to piracy for commercial purposes, as copying for personal use must continue to be permitted.
Nevertheless, I shall be voting against the Directive. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the House finds itself today face to face with a problem of political ethics.
We are voting on a very important report, one that has a wide-ranging impact on economic affairs and on the citizens of Europe.
In fact, creativity, which is one of the main factors of competitiveness in our economic system, is being prevented by counterfeiters because they are affecting the industrial and intellectual property rights.
Often, counterfeiting and piracy also end up affecting consumers, who are forced to purchase goods of a quality inferior to the original.
The directive on the application of industrial and intellectual property rights is therefore an important instrument in combating the phenomenon and must be quickly adopted before the accession of the new countries, where counterfeiting and piracy are particularly widespread.
The text negotiated with the Council, which Parliament should widely agree to, is a balanced compromise that should enable the directive to be adopted in just one reading.
The current European and national legal framework on industrial and intellectual property is being respected.
The compromise rightly provides for the most important provisions of the directive to apply only to commercial practices.
It specifies the administrative and civil sanctions that, directly affecting any illegal economic activity, have direct consequences on prohibiting counterfeiting.
There are two aspects which have been fully debated this morning.
We need to go a little further; I believe that the rapporteur’s proposal and the compromise amendments are balanced, and that we had to ensure that anybody carrying out any act against industrial or intellectual property could be prosecuted, whether that act was for commercial purposes or not.
Nevertheless, many of the aspects which were approved in the committee are included in what we are voting on today, apart from the two points I have referred to: commercial purposes and patents.
Improving the regulatory environment to obtain concrete benefits for operators and citizens is a joint responsibility of the European institutions and the Member States.
The interinstitutional agreement regulates and clarifies all the interinstitutional aspects of the work on better regulation.
Before I turn to the specific issues raised by the present draft resolution, allow me to recall just two of the key initiatives of the Commission's action plan, which have also been integrated into the interinstitutional agreement.
First, the Commission is implementing a framework for integrated impact assessment. 2004 will be the second transitional year during which this framework will be further consolidated and improved, while keeping a balanced assessment of economic, social and environmental impacts.
This programme will be implemented in respect of the legislative procedures and the interinstitutional agreement.
The Commission welcomes the continued interest of the European Parliament in better regulation.
The interinstitutional agreement establishes a framework for 'soft law' instruments that should facilitate their future use while fully safeguarding the competences of all Community institutions.
In fact, the three institutions have, for the first time, established a common definition of co-regulation and self-regulation.
Moreover, the institutions have agreed on general limits and conditions to the use of such instruments, defining the role of each institution in the process and ensuring that the prerogatives of the legislative authority are respected.
The Commission could accept some of the orientations, but only within the limits of the provisions already established in the interinstitutional agreement.
Specifically, the Commission considers that paragraphs 5, 7, 8 and 9 of the draft resolution deviate from the word and spirit of the interinstitutional agreement and the limits and conditions laid down therein concerning co-regulation and self-regulation.
For example, the interinstitutional agreement on 'Better Lawmaking' acknowledges the importance of simplifying Community legislation and commits Parliament and the Council, within six months of its entry into force, to modify their working methods by introducing, for instance, ad hoc structures with the specific task of simplifying legislation.
The Commission believes that this third report goes further than what was achieved in the interinstitutional agreement.
My report is not aimed against the interinstitutional agreement, but rather it intends to strengthen it.
However, by means of the long discussion between Parliament, the Commission and the Council on the issue of improving the negotiation of Community legislation, myself and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which approved the report unanimously, wish to express our concern at a tendency which I would describe as technocratic in the legislative field.
The legislative process is a political one, it is a process of political decision-making.
And the only means – however imperfect – the citizens currently have to express their point of view on the Community's contribution is the European Parliament elections.
If, for example, the European Parliament cannot oppose the technocratic procedures for adopting decisions by means of small groups in the form of self-regulation or co-regulation, I do not know what role it can play.
Mr President, I would like to reassure the Commission by guaranteeing that I, and this Parliament as well I believe, which I imagine will adopt my report without too many difficulties, do not intend to undermine the progress which has been made in terms of simplifying Community legislation, but rather propose strengthening the political elements of the process of adopting legislation, pointing out that legislative delegations must always be subject to the popular will, by means of an institution with full legislative competence.
As we know, the great difficulty is that the current Community legislation is the result of the accumulation of a series of international treaties which have continued to evolve and there will be no solution until a European Constitution clearly defining legislative powers is adopted.
Once clearly defined legislative powers exist, the legislative power will be able to delegate, will be able to transfer duties to technical bodies; but these technical bodies must never replace the popular will expressed by means of direct elections to a legislative institution – the European Parliament, Parliament and the Council, whatever you want to call it – which wishes to adopt those decisions.
It is perhaps in that context we have the opportunity to make one or two remarks, rather than the specific points contained in this relatively short report.
We have not really had enough debate in this Chamber about the whole issue of our role in better lawmaking or improving and simplifying the regulatory climate, as the Commission reminded us.
That is why they want us to do the job better and that is why those who are directly implicated in the process – whether consumers, citizens, or businesses, large and small – want to feel that they have been consulted and they have had their say at the right stage in the process.
One of the crucial elements of doing the job better is improved development of our legislative strategies and early consultation in the process.
We have the interinstitutional agreement which the Commissioner talked about.
However, I should like to ask this question: despite what we have today, can we say that we have a simple action plan with a specific hierarchy of objectives, with a specific timetable, with a proposal for specific measures for each objective and with a clearly defined procedure for measuring objectives?
Here we have to combine the cultures of 15 – and soon 25 – states and, of course, the freedom of proposal from all sides.
We face the phenomenon of an exponential rise in the number of amendments and how they can be coordinated and how they can result in a homogenous and clear text, no one knows.
We therefore also have an endogenous problem which we need to address, and here I am of the opinion that, to date, we have been lacking clear-cut services to take care of the technical aspects of legislation and help developments.
Unfortunately, even today, after so many reports on the implementation of law, a huge delay can be seen in control by the Commission of the method of implementation and the judicial and administrative authorities do not have assimilation mechanisms and have not assimilated Community law.
This debate began before we worked on the interinstitutional agreement and continued afterwards.
The report which we are talking about was, therefore, a prerequisite for, and a consequence of, this interinstitutional agreement, which, had it been followed&#160;–&#160;please confirm this to me, Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen&#160;–&#160;by the European Constitution, we would, I believe, have had a parliamentary term characterised by this strong connection and this desire to take into account the three institutions (Commission, Council and Parliament) around which Europe really revolves: the European Community.
I agree that the interinstitutional agreement is of course not everything: an agreement that prepares for a completely different role for Parliament, it is an agreement that must move forward.
This is why, quite rightly, the rapporteur states that, in improving community legislation, it is necessary to go beyond the interinstitutional agreement.
We must, however, avoid a situation in which instead of starting at 12 noon as scheduled, voting does not start until 12.15 or even 12.20.
The European Union considers the occupation of the territories in question illegal, and that is why we have made such a problem of this matter.
The problem, and the reason I am asking these questions now, is that the Commission and the Council, tired of years of squabbling, are now threatening to go along with current practice.
Hence, I have two questions for the Commission.
The second is: can the Commissioner guarantee that every decision he takes that could have an impact on the spirit, the letter or the practice of the Association Agreement will first be submitted to this Parliament for its opinion? &#160;&#160; – Mr President, yesterday, on International Women’s Day, a group of Palestinian women were received here, at the initiative of my group.
Due to Israel’s customs practices, however, it has thus far been impossible for Member States to prevent these preferential imports or to impose taxes.
Last November, the European Union stressed before the EU-Israel Association Council the importance of resolving the problem of the rules of origin before any amendment of the protocol on these same rules.
It contains fundamental standards and values that demonstrate respect and, in itself, we can support Israel as a democracy.
This makes us jointly responsible for the continuation of the policy of colonisation, one of the greatest obstacles to peace.
This is the crux of the matter, in my opinion.
As the Commission and as guardian of the treaties, you must monitor Member States’ compliance with these obligations.
The Member States’ customs authorities will then be able to collect ordinary import duties for products from settlements without the importers being able to contest this.
The issue is merely that we do not want to be jointly responsible for the problem of settlements, and I ask, therefore, that you submit any solutions to Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, the problem of giving preferential treatment to exports from Israeli settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip has now been with us for nearly 30 years and has been the subject of regular oral and written questions and debates in the European Parliament.
Most recently, in a debate in November 2003 we reaffirmed that a solution finally needed to be found in order to bring Israel's repeated violations of international law to an end.
Because of its practice of labelling products from the occupied territories as ‘Made in Israel’, Israel is not only violating the provisions on the territorial scope of the agreement, notably Article&#160;83, the rules on origin and the provisions on cooperation and mutual assistance between administrative authorities in customs matters, but in doing so it is continuing to display its total contempt for international agreements and for international law.
The problem is, however, now more pressing than ever before.
The European Union is planning to include Israel in the preferential treatment system of pan-European accumulation, which in this case means making corresponding changes to the EC-Israel Association Agreement.
The preferential treatment of export products from the occupied territories is, however, not only illegal and in breach of international law, it also means that the Member States continue to be faced with the thorny problem of controls and of achieving some degree of uniform treatment.
The Commission has quite rightly informed the Israeli authorities that measures must be taken promptly to halt this illegal practice.
This is a very important issue, Commissioner, because it needs to go hand in hand with the amendment of the Association Agreement.
The Commission has explained in detail, for example in replies to various oral questions in May and November 2003, its position on this issue and the actions it has taken.
The EU is taking every opportunity to find a solution to the problem of product imports from the Israeli settlements in question.
Exploratory talks aimed at finding possible solutions have recently been held between the Commission and Israel, but these discussions have yet to lead to a formal proposal by Israel and the Commission therefore has yet to take a position.
However, the Commission will not accept any solution that would mean preferential tariff treatment being granted for products originating from the Israeli settlements and imported under Israeli rules of preferential origin.
As regards the involvement of the European Parliament, I can confirm that the Commission will act in full respect of the framework agreement on relations between the European Parliament and the Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue that we are discussing in connection with this agreement between the European Community and Israel is more than just a technical one.
It is not just about the legal arguments that have been exchanged with the authors of the four questions during this debate; what is really important is the political issue of whether we wish to promote peace at this point or not.
It goes without saying that the occupation of the occupied territories since 1967 is illegal – that is the position of the United Nations.
Resolution No 242 says that Israel should withdraw to its pre-1967 borders.
For example, would immediate withdrawal from the occupied territories really serve the cause of peace?
Any signal that we as the European Union give at this point is crucial.
All this is wrong, and it is a fact that Israel has occupied Palestinian territory since 1967 and that the European institutions, including this Parliament, have repeatedly called on the State of Israel to respect the rules of international law.
As long as there are forces such as those that created the Geneva agreements, we must continue to foster this hope and invest politically in this future possibility.
In fact, since 1995 the EU-Israel partnership has developed within the framework of an association agreement that provides, amongst other things, for preferential treatment of Israeli products on the European market.
Since 1976 Israel has, however, determined the origin of its products without making any distinction between those from its territory and those from the territories occupied in constant and repeated violation of Community law, international law and the Geneva Convention.
In fact, the protocol on the rules of origin is also being modified to allow for, on the one hand, pan-European enlargement and, on the other hand, for an Israeli-Jordanian trade system.
In 2000, the Council reaffirmed the need to respect international law under the Fourth Geneva Convention in trade relations with Israel.
In 2001, Commissioner Patten described the continued exports from the settlements on a preferential basis as violations.
The first is that it seems to me that you said that the Commission cannot accept any agreement that does not provide for this illegal practice to stop; yet, how does the Commission intend to tackle this debate with the Council, given that it seems that some Member States are not of the same opinion?
That constitutes a violation of international law and not a debate on subjects of this nature.
Furthermore, the hard-fought-for settlements that have been brought to the table so often in this discussion about associated products are not helping to put an end to peace, that much is certain.
It is certainly terrorism that prevents the parties from coming to the negotiating table.
So then, let us avoid this. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is quite incredible that the Commission has still not found a solution to the issue of the export from Israel of goods with preferential access and that, knowing how Israel has so far insisted upon its own interpretation of its own area, the Commission wants now, into the bargain, to leave it to Israel to propose a solution enabling the Member States to identify which goods have been produced in the illegal settlements, so that duty can be claimed on them.
I fear that the Commission would have said the same if we had been discussing the situation in Vietnam, and would have done so on the basis of its usual course of action, that is to say one whereby, instead of monitoring rights and the law, it would have monitored and protected relations with Vietnamese power, murderous as this was.
The desire to narrow the focus within the framework of a complex situation that is slipping from our graspis, I believe, an error of method.
Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this parliamentary term, the real problem&#160;–&#160;and I am winding up here&#160;–&#160;is the fact that we continue to forget that the historic reasons that allowed us to make the progress that we have made in Europe to date have their origin in the statement&#160;–&#160;excellently summarised in the Ventotene Manifesto by Altiero Spinelli&#160;–&#160;according to which the self-contained nation state cannot produce democracy, freedom, progress or truth.
I would like to conclude by saying: let us hope, at the end of this parliamentary term, that the federalist ideals and the federalist method will very quickly prevail,with the accession to the European Union of Israel and of a Palestinian state of the kind you want to see: one founded on freedom and not on the abuse of power. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, as the debate has shown, this is a complicated and sensitive subject.
Clearly, serious questions arise about preferential access to the Community market for products originating from the Israeli settlements in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
I agree with the previous speakers: it is important that this take place before the end of the present Commission’s term of office, if possible.
As the previous speaker remarked, this is indeed a measure that is neither for nor against Israel. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are facing an absurdity, a paradox.
With regard to the issue on which this debate is based, achieving correct application of the EC-Israel Association Agreement, I do not mind what is done nor how it is done and I do not mind what law is applied nor how.
But it must be made clear that Israel cannot continue to unilaterally apply the Association Agreement to settlements which must disappear in order for peace to be possible.
To allow this to continue in a unilateral fashion would be another absurdity, an insult, a humiliation which this Parliament at least must combat.
We must remember once again the Commission’s clear statement of 10 May 2001 that exports from Israeli settlements in the West Bank and Gaza, within the framework of preferential treatment, are violations of the commercial agreements between the Community and Israel.
If only for tactical reasons, it would do no harm to remember that on 10 April 2002 this Parliament approved a resolution on the Middle East, paragraph 8 of which calls on the Commission and the Council to suspend the Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement between Israel and the European Community. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is clear that if EU law is to be credible it should be enforced properly.
If the Commission is going to come forward with new plans – as it should – then it should do so before Parliament rises in June to give us time to scrutinise them properly.
The EU prides itself on inserting these human rights clauses into trade agreements.
Therefore it is time to suspend this agreement, because of not only the human rights abuses associated with the settlements but also those associated with the new apartheid wall, which has nothing to do with security and everything to do with an illegal land grab.
If the EU does not suspend this agreement, it is guilty not only of an injustice to the Palestinian people but also of undermining its own laws and legislation. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, quite right, I made a totally ridiculous remark and I would like to correct it immediately.
She continues to portray the war, from which we want to pull out, from a point of view that I do not agree with. &#160;&#160; An example of Italian , elegance and courtesy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I hope to give an example of Dutch common sense.
If we want to have credibility, we should play positively, and if we want to replace or, at least, compensate for the influence of the United States – which many here talk about – over Israel, and if we want Israel to trust in Europe, what we cannot do is always seek to castigate.
The wall that Israel is now erecting is more than a symbol.
The Commission takes every opportunity to reach a satisfactory solution to ensure correct application of Community law and to protect the Community's own resources.
That is why the Commission works in close cooperation with the customs authorities of Member States and maintains a constructive dialogue with the Israeli authorities.
Finally, I want to remind you that EU policy towards Israel lies in partnership and cooperation.
I want to reiterate the statement of the Association Council last November, recalling that in July 2003, at the third Euro-Mediterranean ministerial meeting, ministers endorsed a new protocol on rules of origin which allows the extension of the pan-European accumulation of origin to the Mediterranean countries.
The next stage will be amendment of origin protocols in the current bilateral association agreements in order to insert the changes necessary for the application of diagonal accumulation.
The EU stresses the importance of solving the bilateral issue of rules of origin before the original protocol is amended.
The EU's position is clear. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner&#160;Liikanen.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is the vote.(1) &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the first amended budget for 2004, which is to be voted on shortly, relates to the accession of the new Member States on 1 May this year.
The Committee on Budgets has already approved this budget unanimously and, in principle, Parliament as a whole rubberstamped everything as long ago as December last year.
I should like to point out that the observers in the Committee on Budgets have played a very active and constructive role in drawing up the budget with regard to the new countries, and we as the Committee on Budgets have increased certain payment appropriations.
Some people in the Council always think that Parliament is too generous when it comes to money and has, so to speak, a hole in its pocket.
I should like to draw your attention to the fact that with the enlargement through the accession of ten new countries, the percentage of the gross national income that is spent on the European budget is 0.98%, the lowest percentage since 1990.
If you will be voting ‘yes’ – and I hope that you will do so in large numbers – then nothing will stop us financially from including all new Member States in the European Union on 1 May of this year. &#160;&#160; Mr Mulder, we would never have expected a Dutch rapporteur to have a hole in his pocket!
Mr&#160;President, the minority opinion that was delivered, in accordance with procedure, in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Internal Affairs does not appear in the Matikainen-Kallström report on the suppression of illicit drug trafficking.
Mr President, scarcely less important than passing wise laws is seeing that they are actually implemented and it is, therefore, encouraging to read the Commission's report, which my report addresses.
However, as my report suggests, there is a real problem about the non-compliance with Community law among big states.
The worst example – which is cited in the explanatory statement – concerns the treatment by the Italian State of a group of university lecturers, who, after 14 years, have still not had their rights enforced, despite two resolutions by this House.
I have just received information that, despite the European Commission's decision to ask the European Court of Justice to impose fines of EUR 309&#160;750 a day, the Italian Parliament has just passed legislation which enhances the illegal discrimination against these citizens.
My report does not propose amending legislation on privacy, because there is no problem with the legislation, but with its application.
One example that many of you are familiar with: for a year the European Union and the Member States have allowed the United States security services access to booking terminals for transatlantic flights, with no information, authorisation or control.
I therefore hope that we will unanimously vote for a report condemning these situations.
I would like to say to colleagues that one of the amendments to be voted in relation to the Corbett report proposes a rule that makes it very hard to set up temporary committees.
I know it is very late, but please take into account that this will mean that good work such as that carried out in this Parliament on the issue would not be possible if we were to adopt this amendment. &#160;&#160; There is a separate vote on that amendment.
This is voting time, not a debate! &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we are voting on the Paulsen report today.
It was only this morning that the amendments to this report became available in all languages.
I therefore see no reason for postponing the vote today.
The European Ombudsman has asked the Commission to carry out an investigation for the purpose of clarifying these financial declarations.
I would ask the Commission to reply to the Ombudsman’s enquiry about the same issue. &#160;&#160; Mr MacCormick, you have raised a valid question, which I will bring to the attention of the Bureau, irrespective of what the Commission or other institutions may choose to do. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to point out a linguistic problem with Amendment No 83 before the vote.
The Italian version says‘seizure of the contentious goods’.
I do not feel we should add, in the hasty way with which we have been forced to act by the procedure followed, a further restriction to measures which already appear restrictive enough.
This House has developed an alternative model, but we all know that the Council will disregard it.
I wish to ask the Committee on Budgets, before it approves the funding for this agency, to enter into a further in-depth discussion with the Council.
This Council decision aims to establish a set of information systems that will enable the various European institutions to be kept informed about activities of the fleets of third countries whose practices could be harmful to the maritime interests of Member States, and, most importantly, about the extent to which these fleets may adversely affect the competitiveness of those of Member States taking part in international maritime trade.
These systems must also facilitate the provision and consultation of information at intra-Community level.
More specifically, all natural and legal persons from the Member States covered by Regulation (EC) No 2666/2000 are permitted to take part in tenders organised under the pre-accession Community assistance programmes.
The purpose of this proposal for a Council and Parliament decision is to establish a Community action programme for Commission grants in the field of protecting the Community’s financial interests – the HERCULE Programme.
This programme will ultimately finance specific measures and will cover grants to bodies working in this field.
This report improves the proposal for a decision, and as such deserves our support.
Firstly, the report is in line with the decisions of the budgetary authority agreed at the end of last year, in other words, an action programme for 2004-2006, which will be funded to the tune of some EUR 12 million.
This programme covers, on the one hand, grants allocated to occasional activities, such as study schemes, conferences or training and, on the other, operated grants allocated to bodies working in this field, such as associations created to promote the protection of the Community’s financial interests.
Indeed, the current process of reforming the Commission, and in particular the adoption of the new Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities, requires basic instruments to be adopted for a number of grants that have been financed to date without being covered by a specific basic instrument.
The purpose of this proposal is to constitute a basic instrument of this kind, establishing a Community action programme for the allocation of grants by the Commission in this field.
The aim of this Draft Amending Budget is to establish fixed amounts for the EU of 25.
The key issue is the content of the first budget of an EU enlarged to include countries in which average incomes per head are substantially lower than the current EU average; a budget with payment spending raised to the level of inflation; the lowest budget, in real terms, since 1987; a budget that is not only incapable of contributing towards economic and social cohesion, but also institutionalises discrimination towards the new Member States; a budget that sets a bad example of Parliament’s role as a budgetary authority, as, year after year, it accepts cuts and redeployments, which, in spite of worthy protests, tally with the objectives of the ‘Charter of the six’.
It is characterised by political aims that are dominated by the obsession with competitiveness, and in which social issues are replaced by military and security issues.
This clearly illustrates the need to fund forest fire prevention measures that will preserve the EU’s rich and extensive forest heritage, particularly in southern Member States and the Mediterranean fringe, which are affected by such fires every year.
Appropriate measures are also required, however, at Community level.
The new forest protection programme, Forest Focus, which was approved last year and which runs until 2006, includes measures for combating forest pollution.
It should not be forgotten that, in various resolutions, Parliament has asked for increased funds for the forest protection programme and for fire prevention measures to be included.
We therefore regret that, when the reference amounts for the programme were being adapted, the opportunity was not taken to consider the needs of enlargement, in order to adjust aims and increase appropriations.
At the conciliation meeting of 24&#160;November, the Council and Parliament reached an agreement to increase reference amounts by EUR 2.58 million, only around EUR 30 million short of Parliament’s original proposals.
Many of these programmes adopted under codecision had become underfinanced for the fifteen, and we should have taken the opportunity to make some general corrections to the programmes and, in some cases, to the actual aims themselves.
We refer to complementary programmes to the actions of Member States in fields such as the sixth research and development programme, the framework programme in favour of culture, Forest Focus for the protection of forests, Life III, public health, youth, education, including Socrates, and many others.
In Portugal alone, more than two million people – over 20% of the population – live close to the poverty line.
While nothing is done to alleviate severe income inequality and major unemployment, which affects over 14 million people, the risks of poverty and social exclusion will increase, and will increase still further with enlargement to include ten countries in which the average income is lower than the Community average.
It is, therefore, regrettable that the Community programme of measures to combat and prevent exclusion receives just EUR 75 million in funding for the 2002-2006 period, in other words, an average of EUR 15 million per year for the current 15 Member States.
By revising the financial perspectives for 2000-2006 to take account of enlargement, Parliament and the Council must – at the end of the budgetary process for 2004 and in line with the process of codecision – revise the reference amounts for programmes adopted under codecision, within the maximum limits of the aforementioned adaptation and revision of the financial perspectives.
I feel that the extra amount proposed – EUR 2.58 million, on top of the original budget of EUR 26.7 million – meets funding needs arising from the current enlargement process, for this vital package of programmes adopted under codecision and financed under Heading 3 of the financial perspectives (internal policies).
That aim is nothing other than to step up cooperation between EU customs administrations in combating trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances by making it possible, in particularly urgent circumstances, for an official vessel of a Member State to take action on the high seas against a vessel flying the flag of another Member State, where there is good reason to believe the vessel is being used for illegal drug trafficking, without having obtained prior authorisation from that Member State.
It is important to pay special attention to the situation of the victims of this type of crime.
Overall, the proposed amendments are aimed at improving the situation of the victims.
Instead, comprehensive victim protection must ensure a permanent residence permit, thus granting full access to medical and social support without preconditions.
The Commission proposes various actions designed to improve the monitoring of the application of Community law.
The communication details what is covered by the prevention carried out in close and reciprocal cooperation between the Commission and the Member States; it then describes the conditions of effective management of monitoring and of how infringements are dealt with, which will become even more significant after enlargement; finally, it looks into the possibility of gradually changing the culture of monitoring, by introducing the dimension of preventing such behaviour.
Appropriate monitoring effectively depends on information that is both qualitative – concerning the practices adopted in actually applying the law – and quantitative, reporting on numbers of directives whose transposition or effective application is delayed by reference to established deadlines, or otherwise deficient.
It is important to underline, as regards this measure, the importance of close and reciprocal cooperation between the Commission and the Member States.
A joint programme has been adopted, which is intended to improve cooperation between Member States in the areas of evaluating chemical risks, alerts, intervention, the storage of means of intervention and in the field of research.
I feel that the adoption of budgetary and legal initiatives must be based on a clear risk analysis demonstrating a genuine probability of terrorist attacks in the EU.
The report aims to improve preparedness and response to biological and chemical agent attacks.
Citizens will be safe from terrorist attacks of any type, if such attacks could be neutralised in time. &#160;&#160; .
The report before us poses such a vast array of questions that it would be impossible to cover everything in this short explanation of vote.
Nonetheless, while I do not agree with the thrust of some premises and proposals contained therein, the report deserves praise for the criticisms it makes of the current repression of rights and of safeguards of privacy and the protection of personal data – as a consequence of measures adopted in certain countries under the pretext of the ‘fight against terrorism’ – which are undermining fundamental rights and freedoms.
The report also criticises the attitude of the Commission and of some Member States ‘to connive at this violation of the law and the principle of legality’.
The report begins with an alarming picture of the situation in various parts of the EU in terms of aspects such as prison overcrowding, the increase in the prison population, the increase in the number of detainees awaiting definitive sentencing, drug addiction and rising suicide rates.
The report makes various general recommendations, which I welcome.
It is essential to strengthen measures to prevent violence between fellow prisoners and prevent suicide.
I am, naturally, in favour of the fundamental rights of prisoners and I am aware of problems such as overcrowding, the rates of death, suicide and ill-treatment and the inadequate nature of prison facilities, which force us to consider the need to take certain measures in this area.
It does, however, contain two points that we should like to see amended, so that the second phase of the Daphne Programme (2004-2008), which is already some months behind schedule, may get under way.
The second point is the establishment of a support centre for NGOs, so that they may be able to improve their projects, set up links with other partners and enjoy the benefits of the Daphne acquis.
We must implore the Commission to maintain the balance of its proposal with regard to victims and attackers, and to ensure that these are not placed on the same level.
We also agree with the amendments tabled by the rapporteur to ensure that new Member States can also benefit from this programme, not least through the creation of a support centre aimed at helping NGOs to plan their projects and establish links, especially those taking part for the first time.
It is essential, however, that governments in Member States pay particular attention to this problem and do not leave the violence prevention campaign solely to the NGOs.
Indeed, a recent programme on a French television channel criticised the fact that no awareness-raising campaign against violence has been launched on that channel.
The fact that the Council has given its support to this programme and has taken on board some of this Parliament's strengthening amendments (including the increase in budget) is to be welcomed.
I support the Women's Rights Committee's text and trust that the plenary will accept a well balanced report which should ensure that the new Member States can fully benefit and that their specific needs will be taken into consideration. &#160;&#160; . – On the day after the day devoted to women’s rights, I am pleased to see that the European&#160;Parliament is also taking this issue to heart.
The report on combating violence against children, young people and women is no exception.
Violence against women cannot be eliminated without addressing the factors that contribute, directly or indirectly, to women being in a submissive position.
It also violates Article 198 of the EC Treaty, according to which, ‘save as otherwise provided in this Treaty, the European Parliament shall act by an absolute majority of the votes cast’.
The Dimitrakopoulos report attempts to rectify this irregularity by reintroducing the requirement of the outcome of the vote to be a ‘majority of the votes cast’ vote at the level of the European Parliament regulation.
As we can see, Parliament is assigned ‘a new task, which is different from the “traditional” tasks’, in which ‘Parliament exercises “external” powers’, in other words, monitoring ‘European political parties’.
It puts in place the ‘Statute and financing of European political parties’, which sets out – and this is crucial – a certain model of the European political party, and establishes procedures for access to financing, for which discriminatory conditions must be fulfilled.
I should also like to point out that the original aim of this entire process was to bypass the Court of Auditors’ criticism of the financing by certain groups in Parliament of their respective ‘European parties’.
Firstly, this new system will allow the funding for such parties to be withheld not on objective criteria but on criteria based on teleology and political purpose.
If so, I call on it to counter all threats to political pluralism. &#160;&#160; – The report before us contains the first measures on the application of the Regulation governing the statute and financing of political parties at European level, adopted in June&#160;2003.
Rights are being abolished, such as the right of free expression and to establish political parties.
While excessive powers are granted to the more easily controlled Bureau of the European Parliament, the sole right reserved for the European Parliament itself is to decide ‘by a majority of the votes cast’ (not even an absolute majority of its members) if a party does or does not observe the principles of the EU; in other words, if it fits into the mould of big business in the ΕU and its system.
It is precisely because the Bureau is the body with the competence to take such decisions that I voted against this report.
Not every political group represented in Parliament sits on the Bureau, yet all political groups must take part in such politically charged decisions as creating political organisations that are eligible for Community funds.
Otherwise, the transparency of these decisions is compromised.
The Bureau will be responsible for most of the tasks relating to the operation of the funding system, since it is the body responsible for financial and administrative matters concerning Members and the internal organisation of Parliament.
It is for the citizens of a Member State to decide whether or not they will choose to fund national political parties or independent representatives.
The criteria for EU funding only of pan-European political parties exclude and therefore discriminate against smaller national parties and independents.
It is also extremely worrying that the decision on whether or not a party will share in EU funding will be taken by an institution of the European Union.
This hardly supports the fundamental principles of democracy and subsidiarity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I said earlier that this was largely a tidying-up exercise, but drew attention to the fact that Rule 180(8) would now apply to all Rules of Procedure.
This means that in the new Rules to be published in time for the new Parliament – indeed, presumably in time for the enlarged Parliament in May – the figures in our Rules will automatically be adjusted to suit the expanded size of Parliament.
For instance, the figure of 32 Members needed to table a motion or an amendment will rise proportionately.
After the vote in committee, we were faced with a result that made implementation of the regulation impossible.
The rapporteur agreed this text with four of the groups in Parliament and presented it to this House in what I see as a very undignified manner, with new versions of the English text being presented day after day over the last week.
This House has had no opportunity whatsoever to adopt a position on this text in committee; instead, the text was immediately presented to the House with adoption today by a non-qualified majority vote.
The Council would just have to present a text, four Members of this House would nod it through, and the whole House would vote for it, because it would not be possible to address its actual content.
It cannot amount to a dictatorship by a handful of people in the groups, who explain overnight at a group meeting what is in the text, without anyone knowing exactly what is actually being voted on.
However, she could also have achieved that by talking to me.
I hope you will take this point on board and reject any such procedure in future. &#160;&#160; Today's vote, which was a first reading, required only a simple majority.
A heady climate of permissiveness has been created in the wake of the abolition of internal borders and the gradual liberalisation of trade, which has, in turn, led to a lack of investment in essential technical resources (such as reference laboratories and research centres) and human resources (such as professional training).
This regulation forms part of the same approach as other regulations in the White Paper on food safety, which establishes a series of common aims in the field of food safety and common EU-level sanctions.
Monitoring and inspection have played a crucial role in this response.
The objective is increased safety, both for consumers and for producers, and this report is a further step forward in the field of food safety, specifically in food and animal feed.
These measures will bring significant benefits to consumers. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, on my own and Mrs&#160;Boogerd-Quaak’s behalf, I would state that we voted against the Fourtou report in the final vote.
Certainly, it is important that measures be taken to combat piracy, but the regulations as amended go much further.
For example, the group had extremely few opportunities to discuss this matter before we faced having to make a final decision.
There is also justification for observing that more than 50 leading experts on intellectual property law in Europe appealed to Parliament to look more carefully at the matter, something we have not, however, done.
The legal basis can also be questioned, since the procedure is now at issue.
Implementing the regulation in this way amounts to discrimination against the smaller party groupings in this House, which although they are active at European level nevertheless are not represented in any group.
We all know that parties and their organisations are dependent on financial contributions.
I think Parliament has made a very serious mistake today. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr&#160;Turmes.
It has been important to us to ensure protection for citizens and their rights and, at the same time, to combat growing trademark counterfeiting, pirate copying and the infringement of intellectual property rights.
Moreover, the directive ensures further harmonisation of national legal regulations on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and helps ensure that the legislation is complied with.
The compromise means that the proposal is limited to circumstances of a major commercial character.
It excludes offences by consumers who have acted in good faith and strengthens people’s right to carry out private copying in accordance with the Copyright Directive.
Finally, we consider it important to have the proposal adopted before enlargement.
Adoption following enlargement could mean that future legislation would only be adopted in several years’ time, which could lead to increased illegal activity. &#160;&#160; We have chosen to vote against the compromise on the harmonisation of the Member States’ legislation on intellectual property rights, mainly because of the amendments to Article&#160;9 that have been tabled.
If the proposals for amending Article&#160;9 are adopted, this will lead to conflict with Swedish legal tradition, especially the principle of the free sifting of evidence.
While we steadfastly oppose the misappropriation and commercialisation of human knowledge and of what is part of human heritage, we acknowledge the difficulty of striking a balance between legitimate property rights and the social and collective benefits of the item concerned.
Whereas mechanisms to protect these rights are unable to stop trade and abuse, they must not be so lax as to allow, or even encourage, pirating and counterfeiting.
As such, in the name of spurious liberalisation, it can have a devastating economic, social and cultural impact, as well as a detrimental effect on health.
It is therefore right to establish special legal measures to combat this scourge.
The purpose of this proposal is to strengthen Community requirements regarding the restriction of new heavy vehicles’ polluting emissions (positive-ignition engines fuelled with natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas).
This therefore constitutes a further important means of promoting the sustainable development that the EU champions.
Given the mishaps and delays that have affected this process and the ‘speed’ with which we are trying to push through amendments to the Commission’s proposals, there is no chance of establishing a framework in which operators and professionals in the sector are forced to comply with rules and to be subject to the relevant inspections.
The rules have not been clarified and feasibility checks, especially of certain monitoring methods, have not been carried out.
We must launch an awareness-raising campaign, as soon as possible, in collaboration with these professionals. &#160;&#160; We voted against Amendment No&#160;1, designed to limit the applicability of the Framework Decision so that, where the drugs trade is concerned, it applies only to serious and/or international crime.
We support the Council decision as a whole and believe that this addition would limit the scope of the Framework Decision and, therefore, clearly entail a deterioration in the Council’s document.
The Council of Ministers is, furthermore, unanimous on this issue.
Lastly, in our opinion, it is out of the question for the Agency to have exclusive powers on issues such as the removal of third country nationals illegally residing in a Member State and the establishment of a European Corps of Border Guards.
The United Kingdom and Ireland made the right decision in refusing to accept the Schengen on the control of external borders.
In 2001, the Commission adopted an EU-level approach to combating trafficking, in view of its transnational nature.
The final agreement laid down substantial amendments to the Commission’s original proposal, such as the establishment of new sanctions that tally more closely with those set out in the UN Conventions on this issue, in contrast to the limited definition that the Commission had put forward.
It deserves to be repeated that there is a link between the number of people who try drugs and the number of people who are in danger of getting hooked on their misuse.
The wrong signals are still being sent out to the young people of Europe when anyone can buy five grams of cannabis at a so-called coffee shop.
We must not be satisfied with this Framework Decision, but must continue to strive for a drugs-free Europe.
The main objections, both in the European Parliament and in the Council, came from the Netherlands, where the consumption and sale of small quantities of soft drugs are permitted.
It is, therefore, understandable that the Oostlander report should have confined itself to proposing that the Council framework decision should be accepted in the version presented, without any amendments, because this text received unanimous approval after a year of negotiations.
After years of discussion in Council, an agreement was concluded last November on the minimum provisions applicable in the Community-level fight against drugs, and this agreement has been submitted once again for the consideration of the European Parliament.
This means that, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, although Member States use the framework decision to sanction personal consumption, they are under no obligation to do so.
Illegal drug-related activities will be punished by criminal penalties of at least one to three years’ imprisonment and incentives, aid or attempts to commit one of these infringements will also be punished.
The von Boetticher report on the subject calls for a qualified judgment, however.
On the other hand, however, it sets the new system not in an intergovernmental framework but in a Community one, guided by the Commission and under the political control of the European Parliament, thus opening the way to extensions of supranational competences in the future.
It must in fact be read in parallel with the draft European Constitution, which shows the mentality that prevails in Brussels: Article 3(166) charges the Union with ‘the gradual introduction of an integrated management system for external borders’, that is a supranational system with a European border police.
Whilst containing some contradictions, as a result of its supranational perspective – the report endorses the Commission’s role in this agency – at the same time, it rightly states that monitoring national borders should remain a sovereign Member State responsibility.
One of the report’s more positive aspects is to criticise the idea of giving this agency the task of expelling immigrants.
I accept that there must be cooperation between national bodies, in order to combat networks that exploit immigrants and traffic in human beings and to combat organised crime and money-laundering.
Nevertheless, given the intergovernmental nature of border control and in light of the experience that each of the Member States has acquired in performing this task, I believe that each Member State should be represented on the Agency’s Management Board to ensure that it can benefit from the skills and knowledge acquired ‘on the ground’ by each country at its own borders.
On the one hand, this is a result of the Community legal system itself – and of the current division of powers – but, on the other, today offers better safeguards for the experience acquired by each Member State in performing these tasks (whether at air, sea or land borders or at all three).
It therefore appears to make sense that the Management Board should be composed of one Member from each Member State, assisted by two representatives of the Commission.
Consequently, I voted against the report. &#160;&#160; It must be possible for both women and men to combine family life and working life.
We do not, however, think that issues concerning the ways in which welfare is to be organised should be decided at EU level.
We have therefore voted against wordings that require special forms of tax relief or the use of what are termed vouchers or that in other ways regulate welfare policy in detail.
We are, in principle, able to support quite a few of the proposals presented in the report.
It will serve as a benchmark for family policies in the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; I have actively supported the fact that, in paragraph 3, the European Parliament comes out in favour of the Christian Democratic idea ‘that family policy should create preconditions to enable parents to spend more time with their children’.
The PPE-DE Group believes that the concept of the family is based upon children’s right to their mothers and fathers and upon parents’ responsibility for their children.
I therefore voted in favour of the report as a whole (there having been 424 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 37 abstentions). &#160;&#160; .
There are 12 million working women and on average they earn 20% less than men.
They are in fact victims of inequality, first of all in access to work: their unemployment rate is two points higher than for men and 80% of French adults earning less than the index-linked guaranteed minimum wage (SMIC) are women.
Today, single-parent families account on average for 14% of all families with children and 90% of single parents are women.
For women who are disabled, it argues for the Directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation to be transposed and for access to be provided to education, training, employment and occupational training in an ordinary environment.
The report also calls for these women to be helped to become more independent and for their participation in political life and in decision-making to be promoted.
As regards migrant women, the report draws attention to incorporating the equality dimension into policies, programmes and actions designed to combat racism, discrimination and social exclusion.
It calls on the Member States to ensure the effective application of the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and specifically states that migrant women should be able to participate in political life and in the decision-making process.
Where Roma women are concerned, the report draws the attention of the Commission and of the governments involved to the need to ensure the effective application of policies implemented at Community and national level that are likely to improve Roma women’s economic, social and political situation.
This last aspect is the most important one, due to enlargement.
The remainder of the report basically consists of rehashing earlier proposals and decisions.
We observe how other Swedish parties have abandoned that pledge and are ready to transfer these issues to EU level.
We share the Swedish view of the right to abortion but, out of respect for third countries, we have voted against those parts of the Junker report that demand free abortion.
We are therefore entirely justified in expecting to find in the report some relevant considerations of economic growth, migration, urbanisation policy or even the environment, all of which were issues raised and highlighted by the Cairo conference.
Globally, one woman dies each minute from pregnancy-related causes, about 200&#160;000 maternal deaths per year result from the lack or the failure of contraceptive services, at least 75&#160;million of the 175 million pregnancies each year are unwanted, and rape and other forms of sexual violence are increasing, including in Europe.
These, and a whole host of other facts contained in the report, clearly point to a need for increased action and assistance to be given by developed countries to combating poverty and encouraging economic growth, with a corresponding increase in educational opportunities, particularly lacking in some countries, for women and girls.
Two aspects of the text warrant some criticism; firstly, in order to reduce the number of births or to improve the sanitary conditions of these births, it fails to present and does even less to promote any alternative solution to the use of mass contraception, which is seen as a basic right.
Secondly, the report even includes abortion in a number of measures to be funded, to which the EU is asked to contribute, without bothering to find out what the policies in at least some Member States in this field are.
The report is even more timely, we believe, for two reasons.
The first is that, having just returned from the 7th Joint ACP-EU Parliamentary Assembly, we felt it was particularly significant that the report approved in that forum on poverty-related diseases should have included a recital on terminations of unwanted pregnancies and the need for these to take place in safe conditions.
Secondly, because as a Portuguese citizen, these reports on this issue, chime with a very lively debate currently taking place in Portugal, in which a right-wing majority is obstructing debate and serious and humane decisions, using arguments and means that are truly disgraceful, not to say criminal.
I am sorry that Parliament has not adopted our proposals, which were intended to clarify the concept of ‘sexual and reproductive health’, our guidelines in this field, or our concerns to prevent sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV/Aids and to guarantee the safe conditions that women need for pregnancy, childbirth and postnatal care, in other words, to protect the health of mothers and babies during and after pregnancy.
Lastly, as I also said in the debate, I must distance myself from a biased report that ignores many of the main aims of the Cairo International Conference: economic growth, town planning, the environment, employment, holding fathers jointly responsible for women’s sexual health and education as a whole, in addition to education focusing specifically on sexual and reproductive health.
I voted against. &#160;&#160; Together with the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I have voted against the report as a whole.
The report was, however, adopted (by 287 votes in favour, 196 votes against and 13 abstentions).
We want population, aid and development policy to combine the fight for democracy and human rights with respect for each country’s democratically decided legislation, in this case within the area of family and health policy.
Amendments Nos&#160;21 and 30, which I supported, were also designed to promote greater respect for other countries’ legislation.
These were nonetheless voted down (in the case of Amendment No&#160;20 by 281 votes, with 207 votes in favour and 18 abstentions) on the basis of the majority view in Parliament that, in its aid efforts, the EU and the UN should not respect but, on the contrary, counter and actively undermine national legislation in a developing country that wishes to protect the unborn child’s right to life, including in its first weeks.
Recital A says: ‘whereas the quality and comprehensibility of Community legislation have a direct impact on the welfare and prosperity of Community citizens and businesses’, while we read in paragraph 6: ‘stresses Parliament’s right to call on the Commission to submit a draft legislative act in connection with the latter’s consideration of self-regulation practices’.
The opposition to any attempt to use the aim of improving the quality of legislation to make changes to legislative procedures and the balance of powers between the institutions is proof of this.
The same applies to Parliament’s request to monitor the appropriate choice and use of the legal instrument proposed by the Commission.
The rapporteur believes that there is a need to go further than the Interinstitutional Agreement ‘European Governance: Better lawmaking’, because the aspirations of the European Parliament have not all been realised.
Furthermore, this third report was adopted unanimously in committee.
Nevertheless, this report removes the flexibility and closeness that the interinstitutional agreement seeks to achieve, by assuming the means required to put these measures into practice.
The a priori and a posteriori controls that it seeks to add do not warrant my support and I consequently abstained. &#160;&#160; That concludes the explanations of vote. &#160;&#160; The Minutes of yesterday's sitting have been distributed.
It is therefore a special honour for me to be rapporteur for this report with a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the Guantánamo detainees’ right to a fair trial.
It has been prepared in order to emphasise that, even in a just cause, there are some quite fundamental rules that have to be obeyed, namely respect for the individual person’s rights, as laid down in the UN Convention on Human Rights and in the Geneva Conventions.
In this case, it is, as has already been pointed out, particularly a question of the right to a fair trial and to treatment in accordance with international law.
Since January 2002, approximately 660 people from 38 different countries have been held prisoner at the American naval base in Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.
The detainees are in a legal vacuum.
On its own initiative, the American Supreme Court has decided to investigate whether American jurisdiction should also apply to the Guantánamo naval base, and a response is awaited by no later than June of this year.
The detainees were not part of a regular army when they were taken prisoner.
Instead, the detainees are regarded by the American authorities as illegal combatants who do not come within known legal systems and who can be detained for an unspecified period without being tried or given access to lawyers.
It is important to emphasise in this connection that the report applies not only to the European prisoners, but to all the prisoners and to their individual rights as human beings.
The EU and the United States have always been allies.
We therefore call upon the United States fully to comply with the obligations it has itself assumed in relation to international law and international humanitarian law.
The report recommends to the Council that the issue of the conditions under which the Guantánamo detainees are being held be addressed at the summit that is to take place between the EU and the United States in June 2004.
We want a common action plan for the fight against terrorism to be devised – an action plan that combines resolve and action against terrorism with full respect for international humanitarian standards.
It touches on an issue which is central to our concerns in the European Union, namely the protection of fundamental human rights.
No-one in this Chamber doubts the vital importance of the fight against international terrorism, nor will or should any of us ever forget the horrible tragedy which we saw on our television screens when those planes crashed into the twin towers in New York on 11 September 2001.
But we all understand the essential need to combat this evil in a way which strengthens the cause of freedom and human rights.
The United States, as the honourable Member pointed out, detained several hundred men during and after the fighting in Afghanistan and some have been detained for as long as two years or slightly more.
Some of them are nationals of our Member States but wherever they came from they need to be treated fairly and humanely, as the report says.
The European Union has been a staunch and committed member of the international coalition against terrorism.
The forthcoming session of the Commission on Human Rights will provide a further opportunity to tackle the issue of human rights and terrorism, and to build on the endorsement by the Third Committee of the proposal that the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights should examine the protection of human rights when fighting terrorism.
I need to make it clear – and I do so without in any way suggesting a lack of interest in this problem which rightly is of considerable concern to many Members of the House – that the European Commission does not have competence in a number of the areas which are raised in this report.
In the absence of a common position on this question, it is for individual Member States to make diplomatic representation on behalf of their nationals.
However, I am sure that the Council will take note of this report and of the strong feelings of many honourable Members on this subject.
There are many more questions which are raised by this case and are touched on in the report.
I want to make this clear: to ask these questions is not to question for one moment our strong partnership with our friends and partners in the United States in the fight against terrorism – terrorism which has a global reach.
But one of our most potent weapons against this evil is our unshakeable commitment to the principle of freedom under the law.
That is why I welcome the fact that the honourable Member has raised this subject in his report in such a careful and measured way and I am glad to have had the opportunity to respond to him today.
It raises the sort of issues which I have had to tackle before in other circumstances, for example in reorganising the police and security services in Northern Ireland and basing that reorganisation on the fundamental proposition that the forces of law and order are there to protect and maintain human rights and should have no truck with the undermining of human rights.
We all stand four-square in the fight against the evil of terrorism and the lethal combination of terrorism and technology.
The Bush administration has argued that the Geneva Conventions are obsolete when it comes to dealing with terrorists and has chosen to apply neither these conventional laws of war nor the criminal law in which human rights norms should apply, that is the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights or the US Constitution.
More than two years after the United States transported some 660 foreign detainees to Guantanamo Bay in the framework of the fight against the Taliban and Al-Qaeda, there is, unfortunately, still uncertainty: uncertainty about the charge, uncertainty about the duration of the detention, uncertainty about the possible judicial process, uncertainty about legal aid and uncertainty about contacts with the country of origin.
This situation cannot, and should not, be sustained.
I appreciate that the Convention of Geneva of 1949 is no longer fully adequate to accommodate new threats such as terrorism.
Even the worst terrorist is entitled to a fair trial.
That is a basic principle underpinned by international law.
I would mention by way of example both the principle and the need to properly safeguard the administration of justice, as well as, among others, such important treaties as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, and the Convention of Geneva, to which the rapporteur has already made reference.
Finally, I urge the Council to continue to bring the case of the Guantanamo detainees to the attention of the authorities of the United States.
This case is deserving of this, and more. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Guantanamo Bay should send a message to all citizens who are concerned about human rights in the world.
In this American concentration camp on Cuban territory, international law and American law have been outlawed to almost universal indifference.
As the victim of the 11 September attacks, the United States was perfectly within its rights to arrest, charge and try everyone presumed to have been involved in those attacks.
The resolution on which we shall be voting tomorrow is addressed to the Council and calls on it to adopt a common position on this serious violation of the fundamental principles of law.
As Commissioner Patten very rightly pointed out, such a common position is very sorely lacking.
But that call will doubtless remain a dead letter so long as the absurd method of unanimous voting continues, allowing Europe’s voice on foreign policy and human rights to be silenced by just one dissenting vote. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to congratulate Great Britain which will today welcome home five of the British citizens imprisoned at the naval base in Guantánamo Bay.
The Swedish detainee, Mehdi Ghezali, is also still there, with no immediate prospect of being released.
That is how the situation has looked for more than two years.
Here we are today, more than two years later, and this is as far as we have got.
Like so many of these detainees, Mehdi Ghezali is young.
Commissioner Patten said that we must have a good relationship with the United States.
Of course we remember 11 September, but I also remember the pictures that, in spite of everything, have come out of the base at Guantánamo Bay, showing young people sitting handcuffed in cages.
This is a very important initiative and this is an opportune time for it to be brought forward.
The existence of internment-without-trial camps in Guantanamo Bay has to unacceptable to anyone in a civilised society.
Any prisoners captured during the invasion of Afghanistan should have been treated according to international law and, at the very least, should have been classified as prisoners of war.
The Irish presidency should be doing everything in its power to ensure that these people are not denied their basic human rights for a minute longer.
As Commissioner Patten said, it is up to the Council to raise this matter with the United States, and the EU Council has failed abysmally to do so on any occasion.
The Irish presidency is also letting down the Irish public, which views this matter as an absolute scandal. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I find it strange that the European Parliament should be so busy with these efforts on behalf of enemies of democracy.
Only by crushing their networks can freedom and democracy be developed in the world.
The detainees at the Guantánamo naval base are not soldiers in an organised army.
It is unfitting that we, who are not waging war in Afghanistan and who have not ourselves been exposed to genuine terrorist attacks in our countries, should think we should tell the United States what to do.
I wish to recommend to Parliament that it vote against the report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, September 11, the attacks on the twin towers in New York, opened up a new chapter in the concept of war – namely, an asymmetric, large-scale attack by a well-organised and well-resourced, fanatic, international, Islamist grouping affiliated to al-Qa'ida, with no respect for the traditional rules and conduct of war as we know them and very difficult to formally classify under the Third and Fourth Geneva Protocols of 1949.
The rest – including the EU citizens involved – are undoubtedly dangerous or a source of ongoing useful intelligence and should either be tried for war crimes, if appropriate, at standards compatible with international norms or held in humane conditions as illegal combatants for the duration of the war, with Red Cross and consular access, until Mr Osama bin Laden is captured and formally surrenders his terrorist network and their declared war on the West.
Furthermore, historically, citizens of any country – and the UK in particular – who in times of war went abroad and fought against their own armed forces or their allies were potentially indictable for treason, historically a capital offence and even today a very serious offence.
If charges had been made, then they would have the right and the opportunity to defend themselves, but no charges have been made.
The two previous speakers would seem to accept the opposite.
The calls made in this House are not anti-American.
They are not, and it was on this basis that the Supreme Court petitioners called for the releases of detainees that we have seen recently.
Mr Camre, I cannot agree with you.
We must never forget that 11 September altered the American psyche forever.
Hence the actions that have been taken.
This House has therefore chosen a noble route: not to condemn, nor to cast out those who have been detained – perhaps in horrific circumstances – but to ask quite simply that the rule of national or international law be upheld and fully respected.
Fortunately, regarding the cases of Mounir El-Motassadeq and Abdelghani Mzoud, the courts in both the United States of America and just recently in Germany have stood up for the most fundamental human rights principles of all, one of which is the right to a fair trial.
It is right and proper to condemn and continue to condemn the atrocity of 11&#160;September 2001 and all other atrocities engineered by terrorists, whether in the United States or in Europe, in Spain, Ireland or indeed in Israel or the Palestinian territories.
If we attempt to undermine the terrorists by using means which themselves destroy freedom, we undermine the very foundations of our own society.
If we go down the route of denying basic human rights and basic democratic rights to those we suspect of terror, then we are giving them a victory and we are shaping a society which in the long run will not be in the best interests of the people of this world who want to live in a sustainable peace.
I would appeal to the Irish presidency to put this matter on the agenda of the EU-US summit in June this year. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one of the interesting things in the discussion on Guantanamo Bay concerns language, not least the new definitions of war that we begin to hear, which have no legal basis in any international jurisdiction.
We have seen the United Kingdom derogate from Articles of the European Convention on Human Rights in order to legitimise the internment in Belmarsh of UK residents.
It is important to respect the rule of international humanitarian law, even when it is inconvenient for governments. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was surprised to hear a few minutes ago that Guantanamo Bay was a centre for English language teaching.
That is quite extraordinary because the holding of the prisoners in Guantanamo Bay runs contrary to human rights.
Without the prior assistance of an independent lawyer, we can say that there is an obvious risk of negotiation to reach an agreement and doing so in order to get the charges reduced.
The European Parliament’s position must therefore be intransigent against terrorism, but also intransigent on respect for international law.
We must all therefore denounce this legal black hole in which the detainees find themselves.
The amendments proposed address some of the key points in our relations with the Western Balkan countries.
The Stabilisation and Association Process has now been strengthened and supplemented by several elements that have been implemented in the course of the ongoing enlargement process.
Like the Accession Partnerships for candidate countries, the European Partnerships establish short- and medium-term priorities that those countries are required to comply with in order to move closer to the European Union.
In accordance with progress achieved, the European Partnerships will increasingly be steered towards adoption of the .
The texts of the individual European Partnerships will be transmitted to the European Parliament, and, exactly as in the case of the Accession Partnerships, the European Parliament will be kept appropriately informed about the progress made by the countries concerned.
The Commission agrees with Parliament's proposal that a passage on the consultation of the national governments should be added to the regulation.
In the context of the mechanisms established under the Stabilisation and Association Process for this purpose, we have regular contacts with these countries.
The question is only when and under what conditions.
What is – and that is at the same time the central question in my report – the added value of introducing a new instrument, namely the European Partnerships, at this present time?
We in the European Union – you know this better than we do – are involved in an extremely complicated process of concluding Stabilisation and Association Agreements with all the countries of the region, or at least, that is the goal towards which we are working.
There are still major problems in three of the five countries, and there is still a great deal of work left to be done.
Now all of a sudden, in the middle of that process, along comes a new instrument, the European Partnerships.
Your colleague, Commissioner Patten, has repeatedly told this House that, as far as he is concerned, it is no trouble to spend the money that he now has at his disposal, and that he would like to receive more money from Parliament in order to help those countries.
The new instruments should not impose yet another set of new conditions.
We have subjected EU assistance to those countries to very strict conditions as it is: the return home of refugees, the fight against corruption and cooperation with the Tribunal in The Hague.
The new instruments should not involve any new conditions.
The negotiation of the Stabilisation and Association Process, together with financial assistance such as the CARDS programme and the annual progress review, assists progress towards the frequently mentioned objective of the ultimate accession of these countries to the European Union.
Commissioner, the Commission and the Council could demonstrate how serious they are about this much-vaunted partnership by taking Croatia as an example.
Cooperation is good in all areas.
Our common foreign policy in South Eastern Europe is currently being put to the test, and a rigorous one at that.
I hope that Commissioner Verheugen will push for that, as I am assuming that he will play a key role in the new Commission – he certainly deserves to – and I assume that he will also have a corresponding influence in ensuring that the European Partnerships become an instrument based on clear criteria.
The Council, the Commission and Parliament must work together to make our voice more widely heard.
The issue is that the Thessaloniki Council asked whether we could not draw a few conclusions from the successful progress of the enlargement process with a view to bringing the countries of the Western Balkans closer to the European Union more effectively.
The question was a simple one: are there lessons that we have learnt, are there instruments that have been successful in that process, and which we could apply here as well, subject to any necessary adjustments?
These correspond to the Stabilisation and Association Agreements with the Western Balkan countries.
The corresponding instrument in the Stabilisation and Association Process will be the European Partnerships, because we could not very well talk about ‘Accession Partnerships’.
The great advantage of this instrument is that it is very flexible, very exact, easy to monitor, and that progress can be assessed very precisely.
It is the Commission's intention to prepare these partnerships following exactly the same pattern as for the Accession Partnerships.
That involves describing in precise terms what is to happen in the first year, as a short-term priority in other words, in all areas – political governance, economic governance, adoption of the – and then medium-term priorities, for which we will give ourselves two or three years, and lastly the long-term priorities.
The big advantage of all this is that it can be checked and fine-tuned at any time, and that the other instruments at our disposal can then be adjusted to meet the objectives of these partnerships, for example the technical assistance instrument that we intend to use in future.
I can tell you from my own experience of the enlargement process that this instrument will be helpful, that it is a very manageable instrument, and one with which we had very good experience during enlargement.
For that reason I can indeed give this instrument my wholehearted support. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner Verheugen. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner Verheugen has won me over.
The debate is closed.
I would like that to be different for new programmes in the future, so that we have a bit more time available for more precise elucidation of the individual positions and more opportunities for discussion.
What this is primarily about is supporting youth groups, something that must be of particular concern to us if we want to build up confidence in Europe or in the European Union, for then it is young people who best understand Europe and who are least likely to have problems when it comes to abandoning their prejudices.
There are various ways in which this can be done: one central office is the Youth Forum, which maintains contacts in the various countries and does many difficult, necessary and useful things alongside young people, enabling them to live in democratic association within Europe and beyond it.
It will, no doubt, be very difficult in practical terms to have them running until 2008.
After 1 May, there will be more young people for us to reach.
Those youth organisations whose aim is to advance international dialogue among young people and to present information on relevant topics to as large a young public as possible are also conduits for the European Union’s views.
Whilst we have to take their interests into account, they also themselves have to make their own contribution and thereby further reflect the whole range of European policy to their fullest extent.
The future of the European Union is in the hands of young people, and we should not forget that. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, today’s debate on these three much-needed programmes finds us seeking a common legal base for the areas of culture, education and youth.
We have had a concertation procedure – I am grateful for the very fine support we got from the Committee on Budgets in that – and now we have some fairly substantial financial resources at our disposal.
As far as my own area is concerned, I can tell you that EUR&#160;77 million for the action programme for educational institutions is not a trifling amount, but, again, we could do with more.
Within all three of these areas there are institutions and associations that are, putting it in the broadest possible terms, educational and cultural ambassadors for Europe and which promote awareness of Europe’s common cultural heritage.
For years, often with the help of this House, all these organisations have been doing their work.
The Council, having absolutely no interest in such things, does not, but the problem is that we have the impossible task of defending these things on the ground.
Let me just say, with reference to this, that this Financial Regulation and the Commission have now – to take just one example – wrecked the network of Europe Houses that has existed for 50 years.
I also want to point out that in respect of neither 2003 nor 2004 has the Commission been able to pay to this network the sums of money that this House allocated to it.
My second point is that we expect more from the soul of Europe, and so future budgets need to take more account of education and culture.
The third, Commissioner, has to do with the new generation of educational and cultural programmes that you want to speak about today.
Everything we do must focus on the public, and let me once again stress that they must not be used as a justification for bureaucratic machinery. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, it comes as a relief that the subject of our debate is the common position with regard to financing European cultural organisations and networks.
I wish to sincerely thank all those whose cooperation in conciliation led to our success at the end of last year.
Terence Wynn, the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, and many others helped enormously.
With the compromise arrived at in conciliation, financing will now be based on a period of three years.
During the first two years there will be compliance with the decision made by the Committee on Budgets last autumn regarding beneficiaries, which is to say earmarking; the third year will see a switch over to open application.
The legal basis now coming into existence will also permit the financing of the work of the European Bureau of Lesser-Used Languages and the Mercator network, as well as concentration camp sites as historical memorials.
The programme’s total budget is EUR 19 million.
When the Commission proposal was being discussed it was evident, for example in the view of all the institutions’ legal services, that the earlier procedure, in which Parliament mentions organisations to receive grants by name, does not accord with the new Financial Regulation.
I myself am also in favour of the open application method as a matter of principle.
I believe that cultural networks have an important contribution to make to the success of European enlargement.
They are not only important heralds of the diversity of our common European cultural heritage and civilisation but also creators of new ideas.
I believe that now that we are finalising a legal basis for funding for three years we can get off to a good start by making sure of the survival of European-wide cultural networks.
I am very pleased that the importance of European cultural and educational cooperation is being highlighted in the Commission proposal as a new financial framework in the building of Europe’s future.
This new Financial Regulation now provides a clear legal framework for the subsidies we give to a large number of leading European organisations in the fields of culture, youth and education.
The changes that have been made led the Commission to present proposals for a new legal base in spring 2003.
Those proposals concerned in particular the fields of culture, youth and education.
They sought to ensure a smooth transition between the old system and the new, and we have tried to ensure the necessary continuity while being irreproachable in terms of the proper use of public funds.
For want of a legal base, we have in fact been in a legal vacuum since 1 January 2004 with regard to organisations whose know-how and creativeness are well known, organisations which the citizens need if they are really to be able to operate in a European way.
The part played by those bodies is irreplaceable: they help to make Europe loved and to give Europe a soul, as some Members have so rightly said.
We have therefore all shown common sense in finding solutions that will enable us to put an end to uncertainty.
I believe everything is now in place to close this file and I would like to point out that the Presidency has sent three letters to the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport informing him that the Council is open to reaching an agreement at second reading on the basis of the common positions so amended.
So far as culture is concerned, the five amendments seeking to make the text compatible with the Financial Regulation and to take account of budget conciliation also meet with the Commission’s agreement.
So far as youth is concerned, the proposed amendment introducing a transitional clause into the legal base in order to extend the period of eligibility to 1 January 2004 to take account of expenditure made during the period of legal vacuum also has the Commission’s agreement.
The Commission therefore fully approves Parliament’s amendments, Mr President.
Thanks to you, ladies, we will be able to continue our very important work with European organisations that bring the Europe of citizenship to life. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, having listened to Commissioner Reding briefly, I am lost for words because it seems to me that this subject is very important.
However that may be, if I am speaking on my own behalf and not as a Member of the European Parliament, if I am speaking as a former history teacher, I recognise that while money is indeed important for education there is something even more important.
This report by rapporteurs Pack, Prets and Iivari is very important and I pay tribute to their work.
The end of the story would be that the generations that come after us should perhaps be able to achieve something that goes beyond what our regional and national systems can give.
From our point of view as Members of Parliament, members of an EU institution, there is room for culture and education at European level.
I hope that this report will be well received by the Council of Ministers and that teachers and pupils will thus be able to expand their minds a little.
Culture and education are neither regional nor national nor European, they are all three at once. &#160;&#160; Mr President, should I now speak in English to further confuse the interpreters?
If I may now speak on the area in which I have been heavily involved, with the White Paper on Youth, the new youth programme and the old one, I have to say that, as a result of their increasing contacts through the recent consultation processes, youth organisations and the European Youth Forum have had their expectations raised very high.
I believe that young people are very satisfied with the good legal basis for financially supporting over 80 youth organisations.
Compared with other policy areas – cultural policy, say, or education – the youth programme is so poorly endowed that we end up allocating less than one per cent of the overall EU Budget to this area, and that, in the long term, ladies and gentlemen, is no longer acceptable.
This explains the cooperation with the CIS, and the programme’s importance in terms of peaceful political development in the Mediterranean is not to be underestimated either.
With regard to the elections on 10-13 June, too, I can only say that we have to persuade young people that Europe is the right place in which to take their political ideas further.
Today, then, is a good day for us to adopt these three programmes, after which we can have a bit more clout in the Budget negotiations and, where forthcoming youth programmes are concerned, look further into the future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the legal package before us aims at creating a legal basis for certain cultural, educational and youth action programmes.
The purpose of these is to provide institutions and organisations in this area with financial support.
The European Parliament’s budget has been used, in accordance with the A-30 lines, to support certain institutions, and NGOs that function on a voluntary basis in particular, which have promoted European activity and strengthened European identity.
This detail received attention when the Financial Regulation was being reviewed, with appropriations earmarked in the budget headings finally being cut or cancelled.
The legal package now under discussion will create a legal basis for grants to organisations active in the fields of education, culture and youth work.
Perhaps we would differ to a certain extent in that I have always thought the parliamentary procedure for supporting activities is very open and transparent.
Let me just make three key points.
The activities of organisations such as the European Youth Orchestra, 'Swinging Europe', the European Forum for the Arts and Heritage – I could carry on – all help people to understand not just culture but also the cultural dimension of Europe and, through that, the European Union itself.
It is also restricted by its own terms, and many organisations that need help at a European level and have been turning to Parliament will now be able to use this new legal base.
Nearly 50% of our money goes on agriculture – I make it less than 0.5% on culture.
But culture is an important wealth creator: 17% of UK GDP comes from the creative industries.
Finally, we have to ensure that organisations that receive funding support get the information in good time, so that money is spent efficiently as well as effectively. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am especially glad that these programmes will guarantee the financial stability of organisations such as Youth Forum, Jeunesse, the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages and Mercator information and documentation centres amongst many others.
Youth Forum and Jeunesse fulfil an important role in empowering and engaging young people in civil society, which is so important.
Likewise the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages and Mercator have both played, and will continue to play, an important role in safeguarding and promoting minority languages in the European Union.
Their presence and work is especially needed now that 10 new countries will join the Union and further enhance the number of existing minority languages.
It is crucial that the speakers of these languages enjoy the same rights and possibilities that have been available to everyone else.
Nevertheless I regret that in the case of youth NGOs the principle of degressivity remains in the common position, which will mean that the reduction of their funds from the third year onwards will make things rather difficult for them.
Guaranteeing a regular budget for these NGOs would be the best way to support their activities and increase their effectiveness in future.
I very much hope that these excellent reports will be endorsed by a substantial majority in Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, like the previous speakers, I believe it is essential to have a legal basis which provides us with a stable budget for European youth, culture and education programmes.
I have often said in this House, and I will not tire of doing so, and today I am going to say it again, that the future of Europe lies in its youth.
And the future of Europe is going to depend very much on the education received by these young people.
I would therefore ask that, when we have finished the battle over the legal basis, amongst all of us we begin the battle to increase the budgets for youth, culture and education until they receive the sums they truly deserve, because that will benefit all of us. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mrs Zabell.
The debate is closed.
The two communications adopted today affect all Europeans, from their schooling to their lives as citizens.
Europe has a soul.
Europe is men and women in their cultural diversity, which is our Union’s true wealth.
The new programmes are trying to listen to them; they are designed to respond to their aspirations and help them to create a genuine European citizenship.
In a Union which is expected to have nearly 500 million people in 2007, strengthening the sense of cultural belonging and of being a citizen of a community of extraordinary diversity will necessarily require mobilising all the tools and programmes at our disposal.
Mr President, these programmes will be our future because their main thrust is to help young people to realise their European aspirations both in the field of education and in the vast field of citizenship.
I know that these programmes come up to a lot of expectations.
I can also tell you in all honesty that the timetable will be tight because we will need 2006 to put these programmes in place and ensure a smooth transition between today’s programmes and tomorrow’s.
We have, however, managed to reduce the number of legal bases from 13 to six and the number of budget lines from 26 to seven.
A revision of the Financial Regulation is also planned in 2005 and I very much hope that, in the interests of greater transparency, greater efficiency and less bureaucracy, we shall succeed in particular in making these programmes easier for the citizens to use.
All these programmes are European programmes which emphasise European added value and were therefore created and conceived at European level.
However, their implementation will be decentralised to national agencies closer to the citizens.
I can tell you that there is a tremendous capacity for absorption in this respect because even today our budget execution is virtually 100%.
The applications we are receiving for projects connected with education and culture in the broad sense are at least 50% more than we are able to grant.
As I believe President Prodi said in this Chamber, the Commission thinks that education and citizenship are very strong aspects of future European policy.
There will therefore be just one integrated programme, a programme whose aim will be to ensure that languages, new technologies and, very importantly, the dissemination of the results of our work, which are considered transversal elements, cover all aspects of education.
We want at least 10% of primary school pupils to benefit from real or virtual mobility projects: today’s figure is only 1.5% a year.
We want a threefold increase in the number of Erasmus students: the present number is 120&#160;000 students a year.
We want genuine mobility in adult education: the present figure is, I am almost ashamed to say, 2&#160;000 people, and we would like to increase that to at least 50&#160;000 people a year.
I am speaking here of mobility within the European Union, because there is also, of course, the world outside the European Union.
There are our new neighbours, whom we shall have to bring into our way of making Europe.
To this end, Mr President, we want to develop Tempus and make it into Tempus Plus, which will no longer concentrate solely on the university level, but will also provide aid tailored to the needs and capacities of each country, aid for all areas of education policy, including schooling and vocational education and training.
Another aspect which will be of interest to the honourable Members who were speaking of finance only a few minutes ago, Mr President, is the integration of institutions like Bruges, Florence and Maastricht into our programmes so that the legal base is regulated once and for all.
It will cover three fields: youth, culture and media.
By extending this service not only to individuals but also to groups, we would like to make voluntarism among youth a really strong and visible policy with the intention of extending it even beyond Europe.
We want to make a kind of ‘Youth of the World’ programme, to contribute to the development of mutual understanding through an open-minded approach to the world and active engagement of young people.
I am thinking of the countries of the enlarged Europe, of strengthening cooperation with the candidate countries, with the Balkan countries and the EFTA countries, and also with other third countries.
The second field is culture.
We are not changing that, but we are going to give the Member States the possibility of continuing that investment and continuing public aid for the cinema.
You know that European films do not travel well, despite all our efforts.
There is always the problem that people will go and see a national film in the country where it is made, but then the difficulties start when it crosses the border.
We must therefore do all that we can to change the situation, not only to expand the market for films, but also for reasons of cultural diversity which I do not need to explain.
It is a structure, but I think that structure shows that the Commission is taking very seriously Europe’s most precious asset, Europe’s greatest wealth: the citizens and their cultural diversity. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I have three questions to put to you.
Firstly, I would like to know if the extension of the Tempus programme to Tempus Plus is a response to the question raised in Thessaloniki as to whether the educational programmes were being extended to the countries of the Balkans.
Since you want to increase and extend everything – Leonardo, for example, from 45&#160;000 participants to 150&#160;000, 10% primary schoolchildren rather than 1.5%, a leap from 2&#160;000 to 50&#160;000 in adult education, and more of the same besides – how much can we expect in the Budget?
In fact, in this period of gloom after the intergovernmental conference, this House does not often shake with enthusiasm.
My second question concerns languages.
In this way, Europe would become multilingual and not dependent on our jargon that is similar to English.
My third question concerns the cinema.
My fourth question is a point of application.
I would remind you that Erasmus aimed to include 10% of students in the programme.
Our agenda simply describes this as a debate on the education and cultural programmes.
We, I think, must ensure – and you, in your proposal, must specify – that the youth programmes must be properly funded, that the informal system of education will continue to be valued as it needs to be in the future, and will be able to be extended in order to prepare people for active citizenship.
If all these things – youth, culture, audiovisuals, media, and films – end up in a single package, my fear is that young people will end up paying the bill and losing out.
As a result, it will be possible to ask all the questions that I can currently read in the faces of those around me then.
There seems to be a fear that the various elements in the Socrates programme will be done away with.
We need more if we are to be able to invest in the , in the citizens, in our young people, and the fact that the Commission’s budget for the future is an enlarged one means that it has made more funds available for education and for citizenship.
I have quite deliberately sought not to get involved in this debate, believing as I do that it is very important – including in political terms – to clarify what we want for Europe, where we want to take it, and what we need in order to achieve that end.
Languages, Mr&#160;President, are included, as a common theme, in all our education programmes as well as in our programmes for citizenship.
Clearly, Europe cannot be built without linguistic diversity.
If, in the name of the European Union, we do not want to invest in the production of films, then we must give Member States the possibility of doing so.
The Commission is prepared to conduct an in-depth investigation of the alleged abuse of a dominant position in the European Union’s fish production as and when evidence of such abuse is produced.
As I have said, I am prepared to examine the available information in depth and, if need be, to set in motion other investigations into this matter. &#160;&#160; I warmly thank Commissioner Fischler for that very direct answer.
The fact is that I am also responsible for the international side of agricultural matters.
I am quite happy, though, to take up your suggestion and, the next time we have one of our bilateral and trilateral meetings – as I can assure you we do – we will certainly see to it that the information will be made available at an appropriately early stage to all those who may have some responsibility for this. &#160;&#160; As the author is not present, Question No 28 lapses.
The draft instrument is in its final stages of internal consultation within the Commission.
The draft framework decision covers five basic rights: access to legal advice; access to free interpretation and translation, ensuring that persons who are not able to understand or follow the proceedings receive specific attention; the right of foreign detained persons to communicate with their consular authorities; and written notification of their rights.
As regards the right to silence, the Commission has asked the Law Society of England and Wales to carry out a study on gathering and handling of evidence, including how the right to silence is interpreted in all the Member States and in the acceding countries.
Police immunity is not within the competence of the European Union, since the maintenance of law and order and the safeguarding of internal security are explicitly excluded from the ambit of the Treaty on European Union. &#160;&#160; Thank you for the reply, Commissioner, which sounds encouraging.
Take the example of the arrest warrant, which all the Member States have ratified but only eight have transposed into national law.
It is going to be very difficult to get this proposal through, but you have the backing of our committee.
There is a problem of mutual recognition versus standardisation.
We think that mutual recognition, which is the cornerstone of judicial penal cooperation, requires mutual confidence among Member States.
To a certain extent, to create that climate of mutual confidence, we need a minimum degree of harmonisation or at least approximation of penal law, including procedural guarantees.
We think that we should go further at European level and be more specific about how to use the procedural guarantees already laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights.
It will not be easy, but I am determined to follow that path. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, you will forgive me for finding the situation unsatisfactory, as I am sure you do too.
The most important of these will be the coordination of the joint deployment of the control services in the Member States.
We expect a study to be produced in September on the operational aspects of this agency, and its results will be discussed by the Council when making its decision.
Furthermore, I believe that you should promote an open dialogue with the sector before defining the Agency’s regulations and I believe that this institution could provide the much-needed link between those working in the industry and the scientific institutions.
Although we will be making a proposal for this without delay, this proposal must then make its way through the legislative process. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my question is a specific one: as has been said, it is clear that it was the Council that decided that this agency should be created in Spain, that this decision was approved and that the democratically-elected Spanish Prime Minister, Mr Aznar, accepted that it had to be located in the city of Vigo.
I have pointed out that the Commission – which is acting very quickly here – will this month submit the proposal for the legal basis, after which both the Fisheries Council and Parliament will have to state their positions and take a decision.
As things stand at present, we can expect an opinion from Parliament only after the Parliamentary elections, which means that the Council, too, will be able to come to a decision no earlier than towards the end of this year.
Only after this decision has been taken will it be possible to start the recruitment procedures and look for staff, which process will take up a certain amount of time next year.
Article 5 of this Regulation, which governs the conditions under which fish may be caught in the waters around the Azores, Madeira and the Canary Islands, states that the Member States can reserve to local vessels the catching of fish within 110 miles of the coast.
That has been the case ever since 14 November 2003, when this legal provision entered into force.
On 3 February this year, we submitted to the Council a proposal for a regulation on this subject.
The Commission is also engaged in an ongoing dialogue with the Member States concerned with the intention of ensuring that any friction in the implementation of the new rules is minimised as far as possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am sure this is an oversight, Commissioner, but you did not refer to Article&#160;15 of this Regulation, which is very specific as regards revoking the system that currently preserves Azorean waters.
The Council, the only legal authority to have delivered an opinion on the matter to date, as stated in the Minutes of the Council meeting of 19 February, has stated unequivocally that this date must be respected.
What we have decided, in principle, is that, on the one hand, a new boundary of 100 nautical miles has been laid down, whilst, on the other, the fisheries protection zone has been extended to cover more species of fish, instead of protecting only tuna fishing as was formerly the case.
Turning to the question itself, the general principle underlying last June’s reform of the common agricultural policy was that the funds per country would have to relate to the average aid granted in the course of the reference period.
Reviewing the national quotas at the present time would also be contrary to the thinking that prompted us to introduce them in 1998 and it therefore follows that the Member States are responsible for keeping increases in production under control.
As you are no doubt aware, Spain has a 43% share of the overall maximum, between its share of the number of olive trees cultivated – 39% – and its share in the area under olive groves, which was 44% in 1998.
Looked at from that angle, what we are debating is very definitely a fair offer. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, you know that the basis used for this reform contains out-of-date quotas with regard to Spain.
You know that, in this regard, Spain is a specific case and that the studies carried out and all the surveys demonstrate that in reality Spanish production is greater than has traditionally been recognised.
Bearing in mind that, in reality, the new reform of the CAP represents a settlement of the previous stage – and when it is settled, it is done in accordance with the calculation of the ‘real realities’, and not the out-of-date realities – and bearing in mind that throughout this stage we are now settling, Spain has been penalised in comparative terms – and this can clearly be demonstrated – with a disparity with its real production and, Commissioner, reminding you also that the Spanish olive growers received you always in the great hope that you would appreciate their reality and potential in terms of health and environmental defence, I would ask you: will you not consider the possibility of our real production being reflected in the national budget?
Further to that, Mrs Izquierdo Rojo, I also have to tell you that what you seek will ultimately add up to over a hundred million euros, no more and no less, being spent additionally on support for the Spanish sector to the exclusion of all others.
The fact is that they simply are not there. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the 1998 review created serious problems in both Spain and Greece, especially with the 419 000 tonne quota, when it was a known fact, on the basis of the data from the directorates of agriculture, that production in Greece totalled 600 000 tonnes and more.
The quota of 419 000 tonnes created serious problems for small olive producers.
If you compare that with the number of trees that you have, which make up only 20% of the overall total, and with the surface in hectares, which amounts to only 18.8% of that in the EU, there would actually be justification for transferring part of your guaranteed amount to Spain, rather than in the direction in which you have called for it to go. &#160;&#160; Tonight, as the Commissioner has pointed out and as you know, there is an important debate on agriculture and you will have the opportunity to exchange points of view.
Thirdly, the appellation must be traditionally used within the territory of the third country in question.
The fifth condition is that the official language of the third country must be English, which it is in the case of South Africa, Australia and the USA.
Where English is not the official language of the country in question, its use must be provided for in legislation and English must have been used for this traditional appellation for at least 25 years without interruption.
As English is not the official language in such third countries as Argentina, Chile or Brazil, and the laws of these countries contain no such provision, these countries cannot use the traditional appellations on the EC market.
In order to be allowed to use a traditional appellation in the EC, a third country must submit a dossier to the Commission, which will permit its use only if the various conditions I have enumerated are complied with.
You have just said, however, that these appellations can now be used by third countries provided that they fulfil a raft of criteria, a set of requirements that you have just listed for us.
You even appear to believe that these requirements will protect us from adulteration, counterfeit and fraud.
This will open the floodgates for serious damage in future to a very large demarcated region, the first in the world, the Port Wines region, which alone accounts for one-fifth of Portugal’s agricultural exports.
On the other hand, though, we have to comply with certain rules; if we do not, we run the risk of being taken to the WTO and, if we lose the case, then this system of protection is in ruins.
I do believe that the rules we have put in place are in any event sufficient to guarantee adequate protection.
The new provisions do nothing to alter the risk of counterfeiting; it is always there, as the use of these prestigious names is always an attractive option.
I would also remind you, though, that the ‘Everything But Arms’ initiative is the part of the EC’s general preference system that envisages the complete liberalisation of sugar imports from the least developed countries by 2009.
Until then, the sugar trade would normally continue on the same basis as trade in other agricultural produce.
The least developed countries’reference to flexibility in terms of quantity and negotiated quantitative restrictions could raise questions about compatibility with WTO rules if they were to be seen as a sort of voluntary limitation of exports.
As you will be able to gather from what I have said, we really will not, in our deliberations, lose sight of the situation of the least developed countries, and will be taking it very seriously.
On 3 March, representatives and ministers from the least developed countries presented a new initiative in relation to our rules on the duty-free preferential access of their sugar to the Community market, and I discussed it with them.
We will examine this proposal with great care, as we do all contributions to our preparations for the reform of the common market organisation for sugar.
As we work on these proposals in preparation for their presentation this summer, we will take due account of all contributions received. &#160;&#160; I am grateful for that answer, Commissioner.
In particular, I am glad that you have been listening to the representations of the least-developed countries and that all options remain on the table.
I should like you to comment more specifically on their argument that the fall in price that is integral to two of the Commission's three options would 'make the EBA initiative meaningless for sugar.
The Commission seems to prefer maintaining free access for the LDCs into a market with a price that is too low for them to compete, over that of negotiating with the LDCs an orderly market that achieves a price that allows them to compete and create development'.
The result of all that is that, in the European Union, production will not decrease in the same way in every Member State; on the contrary, the simple fact of the matter will be that, in some of them, sugar production will quite simply no longer pay and so they will stop growing sugar beet.
We have said all along that we intend to present them before the summer and that is still our intention.
The only thing that could create problems is something I have not previously mentioned, namely that the EU is facing a panel in Geneva over the so-called C-quotas issue, and we need to know what can be expected from it.
The link between human health and the quality of our environment is indeed a top priority and we need to understand this link better in order to assess the effectiveness of existing policies and ensure that we address the problem adequately.
In a global sense the links between environment and health are addressed in the communication on a European environmental and health strategy adopted by the Commission last year.
In this communication we announced the establishment of a European environment and health monitoring and response system to link information on health effects, exposure to environmental contamination and the emissions responsible for contamination.
The environment and health strategy is therefore being developed for an enlarged Union, fully involving the new Member States from the outset.
The Commission will now work on presenting an action plan setting out the programme for a first phase, focusing on selected priority diseases and pollutants at the Ministerial Conference on Environment and Health in Budapest on 23-25 June.
We are also following the epidemiological work being carried out in the scientific community, and in particular working with the World Health Organisation and other experts to understand the results of research and promote further action.
For example, under the quality of life and management of living resources programme, which is part of the Fifth Framework Programme for Research, a specific key action on environment and health provided support for 16 multidisciplinary multinational research projects devoted to air pollution.
Such studies foster the development of protective measures and feed into the process of regulating pollutant emissions by revealing the causal links between pollutants and health effects and providing tools for measuring exposure and effects.
The Commission's Joint Research Centre is also contributing to increasing our understanding of the link between environment and health in various ways.
As far as air pollution is concerned, the framework for doing this will be the thematic strategy on air pollution, due to be adopted next year, which is currently in preparation through the Commission's Clean Air for Europe programme – 'CAFE'.
This programme includes a very broad survey on the health effects of air pollution, the expected evolution of air quality between now and 2020, the effectiveness of existing policy and the potential for taking further cost-effective measures to reduce emissions. &#160;&#160; I wanted to thank Commissioner Wallström for her reply.
Even so, it must be stated that the situation is very serious both in the European Union&#160;–&#160;the future enlarged Europe&#160;–&#160;and at world level.
Let us also remember that it was difficult to accept this link between health and environment, and that has often been an excuse for doing nothing.
I have to admit that it is also one of the most difficult issues of all, because it cuts through the divisions we normally see, in both the Commission and the Member States, into different subject areas and spheres of responsibility.
It is necessary to work across all frontiers in order to link cause with effect, and that is not easy.
Clearly, we must also tackle this issue together with the new Member States.
Several of the conferences we have had in order to prepare our action plan have taken place in the new Member States.
There has to be a sound scientific base for any of the actions or measures we propose.
In 2001, following a complaint filed in August 2000, the Commission initiated an infringement procedure pursuant to Article&#160;226 of the EC Treaty.
This procedure, based upon obligations under Directive&#160;79/409/EEC on the protection of wild birds and Directive&#160;92/43/EEC on the protection of natural habitats and wild fauna and flora, reached the stage of reasoned opinion – the last step before bringing the case before the European Court of Justice – in April 2003.
In their answer to the above-mentioned reasoned opinion issued by the Commission, the Spanish authorities undertook to examine alternatives for the remaining part of the project – Puerto de Tarna to Velilla – and confirmed in February 2004 that the necessary studies to comply with the requirements of Article&#160;6(3) of Directive 92/43/EEC will start soon.
The Spanish authorities explain that the necessary nature assessments will not be ready for ten months and that the resulting modified project will be subject to a full impact assessment procedure, in compliance with the provisions of Directive 85/337/EEC on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment.
The authorities submitted to the Commission, as supplementary information, a complete set of documents and studies concerning the original project and its likely effects on natural values.
With regard to the last part of your question, the Commission would welcome and encourage a fruitful dialogue between the interested parties in order to reach an agreed solution, but it cannot interfere in the constitutional competences of the various administrations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the population is concerned about the Spanish Government’s lack of transparency and also about the lack of reliable information from this Commission, which says one thing and then reforms and does another.
That means that it would, in any case, be a new project and that the old procedure may have to be discontinued.
In that case, should the Commission consider that the new project does not comply with European Community law, a new procedure would be initiated afresh.
The Spanish authorities provided information on these developments in February 2004.
The details of the infringements are in these cases no longer part of a potential judicial process, wherefore they are not in need of confidential treatment.
I would like to mention that, as far as possible, the Commission strives to be transparent with regard to its infringement procedures.
When it comes to public access to the actual texts of letters of formal notice and reasoned opinions, certain rules agreed by the Council and Parliament need to be respected.
These are set out in Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents.
Indeed, the Court has held in the Petrie judgment that, in the investigation of infringements, sincere cooperation and a climate of mutual confidence between the Commission and the Member State concerned are required in order to allow both parties to engage in a process of negotiation in the search for a settlement of a dispute.
The safeguarding of this objective justifies refusing access to detailed arguments and representations.
That is why the Commission itself usually cannot give public access to its letters of formal notice and reasoned opinions when the infringement procedure is ongoing.
This can be the case in particular where the infringement has been resolved, the infringement procedure has been closed and there is no longer any likelihood that an investigation would be undermined. &#160;&#160; I take it from the Commissioner's response that basically, if letters of formal notice have been sent out and no subsequent legal action has been taken, citizens in Ireland who want copies of letters sent to the Irish Government can in fact get them.
If the Commission is taking legal action against Member States it would seem that the interests or the protection of Member States are given priority by the Commission and that we basically end up with a situation where citizens throughout the European Union are going to be accusing the Commission of being extremely secretive and protecting the interests of the Member States.
In relation to access to documents, you are making an extremely restrictive interpretation of the regulation.
The rules in question have also been agreed so that we have decision-making processes through which we can solve problems, and which allow us to deal with cases in a dignified way for both parties.
Many of the details are exchanged between the Commission and the Member State, but there is a fear that if these were in the public domain they could be used or misused in such a way that would undermine the whole procedure.
In general, I agree that we should strive for maximum transparency in these processes.
The Commission also tries, when opening an infringement case, to disclose or give the reasons why it has opened that case against a Member State.
We do not want to disclose all the details of a case, but rather to give the public an idea of what it is about. &#160;&#160; I must admit I still fail to see how disclosure can really undermine the cases here, but my supplementary is about which Member States actually continue to give out the information on such letters of formal notice and which do not.
The Commission can support the general recommendations and conclusions of this World Health Organization report on climate change and human health because, for instance, it focuses on the precautionary principle and the principle of sustainable development.
The largest benefits of climate policies for human health can be expected from the reduction in the concentrations of ozone and particles.
Additional health benefits can be gained by reducing urban concentrations of NO2 and SO2.
Thus, emissions-control strategies that simultaneously address air pollutants and greenhouse gases lead to a more efficient use of resources at all scales, also addressing human health concerns.
The World Health Organization report confirms earlier statements that there are still many knowledge gaps involving likely future patterns of exposure to climatic environmental changes and the vulnerability and adaptability of physical, ecological and social systems as regards such climate change.
Therefore, we need better information to establish further the links between the pollutants and health effects, with a view to improving our climate change and health policies.
The action plan on which we are presently working as a follow-up to the environment and health strategy is designed to integrate this information.
Within the activities of scientific support to policies of the Sixth Framework Programme, research is also funded on the physical and chemical processes of air pollutants, in particular on particulate matter at the urban to regional scales, in view of their impact on human health.
Under the last Research Framework Programme, the cCASHh project – Climate Change and Adaptation Strategies for Human Health in Europe – was funded to assess the health impacts of climate change. &#160;&#160; I wish to thank Commissioner Wallström for her detailed, informative reply and to assure her that I am aware of the serious concern with which she has always treated this matter.
This issue is one of major international concern, but I know that it could not be in better hands that those of the Commissioner. &#160;&#160; I would remind the honourable Members that we must ask questions as Members of Parliament.
The objective of these regulations is to protect species of wild fauna and flora and to guarantee their conservation by regulating trade therein.
To begin with, import permits are required for any species listed in Annex A of the Council regulation and these include all species listed on Appendix 1 of CITES - (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora), such as leopard, cheetah and elephant, and a number of other popular trophy species such as brown bear, lynx and wolf.
Before granting these permits the authorities in the relevant Member State must obtain scientific advice that the management of the trophy hunt in the country concerned is based on sound biological data, that harvest levels are sustainable and that illegal activities are under control.
Trophy hunting of these species must generate significant and tangible conservation benefits for the species and for the local people who share the area with or suffer as a result of the species concerned.
Trophy hunting programmes that meet this criterion can play a vital role in conserving rare species, especially in developing countries and in encouraging local communities to value them as a resource that needs protection from other more damaging uses.
I am aware that in a number of countries, including Namibia, South Africa, Botswana and Tanzania, carefully managed trophy hunting provides a major contribution to their relatively successful conservation efforts.
While many people find the concept of hunting trophies distasteful under any circumstances, the Commission considers that a general ban on the import on any CITES-listed species would not be in the best interest of species conservation and the sustainable use of resources.
However, in cases where the criteria for accepting hunting trophies are not met, the Commission has always taken, and will continue to take, the appropriate measures to suspend such trade. &#160;&#160; I am alarmed to hear the Commissioner's conclusions because it certainly does not seem that the trophy hunting to which I referred is being done with the aim of conservation at all.
It is also true that, done in the proper way, this can be a very important area of conservation in some of the countries concerned.
Those countries may get something out of this that means they will be better able to manage these resources and wild animals – we also have some good examples of that.
It is therefore incredibly important to follow matters up and ensure that this happens, so that no hunting takes place that infringes the existing directives designed to protect wild birds, animals and various other creatures. &#160;&#160; As the time allocated to Question Time is at an end, Questions Nos 45 to 66 will be answered in writing (4).
Even though we have made considerable progress in reducing concentrations of some pollutants, such as sulphur dioxide or lead, other pollutants continue to pose a threat.
This programme focuses especially on some of the most widespread problems, such as particulate matter and ground-level ozone.
We are also looking at other types of pollution, which also have important consequences for human health.
They are, in fact, the last in the list of pollutants mentioned in the Air Quality Framework Directive of 1996 as requiring specific action.
Three daughter directives have been adopted so far, pursuant to that directive, covering all the other pollutants on the list.
The directive being discussed today thus forms the last in a series of legislation provided for under the framework directive.
For the heavy metals we have decided not to propose any limits or target value, since the main problems occur in the immediate vicinity of certain industrial installations, and levels that can be easily achieved elsewhere would not be achievable in these areas without taking disproportionate measures, even leading to shutting down the installations.
These installations are covered by the IPPC Directive and best available techniques will therefore have to be applied to reduce emissions by 2007.
By ensuring adequate monitoring of concentrations near these sources and making results available to the public, this directive will help to ensure that the operators of these installations take the necessary measures to keep emissions as low as possible.
For polyaromatic hydrocarbons the problem is not limited to such a small number of sources, so we have proposed a target value obliging Member States to take all necessary measures to reach the required level, as long as they do not entail excessive costs.
I am aware that there is a wish to go further than we have in setting binding limit values for some of these pollutants and I fully sympathise with the desire to protect human health that this reflects.
In any case, by ensuring a high level of monitoring in the worst affected areas and setting a target value for polyaromatic hydrocarbons where the sources are more widespread, the directive as proposed will make an important contribution to reducing this type of pollution, raising public awareness and making Europe's air safer to breathe. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are dealing with here is the fourth daughter directive to the Air Quality Framework Directive, which already has three adopted daughters, the first on sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter and lead, the second on benzene and carbon monoxide and the third on ozone.
In the first two cases, limit values were sought and were duly enshrined in the directives.
The so-called mother directive, in other words the overarching framework legislation, also calls for limit values in respect of arsenic, cadmium, nickel, mercury and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons.
In the case of ozone, the framework directive only provides for a target value, and the third daughter directive set the target accordingly.
In the present discussion on this fourth daughter directive, there are three positions: the Commission has adopted the position that monitoring is enough and sets a proposed target value for benzopyrenes.
The Commission, then, has already deliberated on this point.
These limits did not come from me, because I was pretty poor at chemistry in my schooldays, but from experts from the Commission, international experts and a committee of people with a sound scientific grounding.
In short, these limit values are feasible from the Commission’s point of view, which, in this case, we have endorsed.
There are very many indications from industry too that these target and limit values can be achieved.
We also voted in the Committee on the Environment for the omission of the original requirement for a time limit for industrial areas where these values are difficult to achieve.
In other words, we were very responsive to the needs of industry, telling them that, where damage had been done to their environment in the past, where there was a history of pollution, they were not actually expected to achieve the targets within a very short period.
The third position is that of the Council, with which we have already conducted preliminary negotiations and maintained contacts and dialogue.
In the view of the Council, or a potential majority of the Council, target values are also conceivable.
The line of argument adopted in the Commission document, namely that it is all a matter of cost-benefit analysis, of weighing the cost of filters or technical measures against potential savings from a reduction in the number of people dying from cancer, is, to my mind, extremely cynical.
The second step, namely an assessment of the secondary benefits in terms of a lower incidence of disease, has not been taken at all, because such benefits are difficult to quantify.
We have postponed tomorrow’s vote with the intention of trying to reach an agreement with the Council before the end of the present legislative term.
The study itself says that, for arsenic, some plants might be able to comply but some could not and that 'a more detailed analysis of the reasons why compliance by the other plants will be impossible seems to be justified'.
Arriving at a point where cost-benefit analyses are on our agenda is not a sign of obstructionism, it is a sign that Parliament is at long last moving from seeing itself as a pressure group for the environment and evolving into a responsible part of the legislative process.
But with the Kronberger report as it is, we clearly have a long way to go.
As I said, the position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is, quite evidently, a negotiating position too.
The aim, though, is to make it clear what direction we intend to take in this area of our policy on air quality.
Anything else is contrary to the precautionary principle that we have propagated time and again in all other cases and is contrary to our repeated pledges to protect human health.
What is wanted – and this message will be heard from politicians in the forthcoming election campaign too – is a set of clear and binding targets for local and regional authorities, targets designed solely to improve the quality of people’s lives. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner Wallström, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it has been known for many years that what are termed heavy metals and PAH (polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons) are, to a greater or lesser degree, harmful to the environment and to public health.
These studies cost a lot of money and leave us politicians with as much uncertainty.
The Commission has opted only to monitor pollution.
As the other daughter directives include binding limit values, I fail to understand why this was not done in this case.
He is currently negotiating with the Council about an agreement at first reading.
This is a noble pursuit, in my view.
I am expressly pleading in favour of realistic limit values.
The exact amount is unknown because the obligations for measuring emissions are very basic.
Binding limit values should therefore also be introduced for the benefit of various sectors in industry, as well as the obligation to measure emission levels.
I hope that we can reach agreement with the Council on this matter. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Air Quality Framework Directive of 1996 provides the basis for the act now under discussion and three earlier ones.
The framework directive lists the air pollutants for which limit values, target values and, where necessary, alert thresholds must be laid down.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy accepted 60 amendments to the Commission’s proposal and in this way it, as well as other issues, were brought more in line with the three earlier directives on the quality of ambient air.
It is the human body, however, that is most defenceless against these smallest particles.
The risk to health is obvious.
The experts in different areas in these working groups should formulate opinions on individual pollutants, based on current knowledge, and so present data that proposals for directives can be based on.
As the package of four directives on ambient air quality is now being finalised, the working groups should be given the task of dealing with the problems relating to small particles with the aim of establishing common methods and assessment criteria in the Member States.
If you look at mercury and arsenic, for example, there may be a case for trying to set emission values in this sector, but certainly not in others.
Nickel is one of the most important elements used in the production of stainless steel.
The most common type of stainless steel contains 18% of nickel, but it can contain up to 30%.
In reality, the vast amounts of dust in the production area contain only a very small amount of nickel and the emissions from steel plants are relatively small.
This is a real problem in my country.
The town of Coevorden near the German border has made the decision to incinerate virtually all the old railway sleepers in Europe, thus releasing the arsenic from them into the ambient air.
However, in the longer term, limit values definitely have to be introduced on the basis of one extra cancer case in one million cases.
That would be the way forward towards a possible compromise. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I think this is such an important directive that there is very good reason here to speak passionately about this subject.
It is one, as has already been said here many times, that concerns carcinogenic heavy metals and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH), quite small amounts of many of which damage the genotype of cells.
The objective is to prevent and reduce the harmful effects of air pollutants on human health and the environment.
It has also already been said here that this directive differs from the earlier daughter directives in that this one does not propose binding limit values.
In reality, limit values would have to be accompanied either by exemptions for certain areas or by provisions allowing Member States to apply for derogations in cases where the limit values cannot be met.
Similarly, there is little point in setting long-term objectives without having a clear idea of how such objectives can be met.
For these reasons, the Commission cannot, at this stage, accept any of the amendments that seek to introduce binding limit values.
Although this concept is usually linked with the limit values, the concept has some advantages, even in the absence of limit values, since it provides a flexible regime where the degree of monitoring requirements depends on the level of observed concentrations.
As I said earlier, I am glad that the decision has been taken to postpone the vote to allow time to explore further alternative possibilities.
I very much hope that, as a result, we will be able to move quickly towards an agreement on this important subject. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mrs Wallström.
As you know, the vote has been deferred to a later sitting.
The aims have remained the same: we want to make these sectors more competitive and sustainable, to simplify administration, to create a more WTO-compatible system and to promote rural development.
With regard to the budgetary effects, the Council decided that the Commission was to present a proposal with no net budgetary impact.
Our proposals fulfil all these aims and conditions.
As with the previous reforms, however, the prerequisite for the payment of the full amounts is that farmers meet the requirements of cross-compliance and good farming practice.
Provision is also made in these proposals for a transfer of resources to rural development.
The radical restructuring of the sectors under discussion also enables us finally to abolish some elements of previous market-organisation regimes that have now become obsolete, such as the export refunds for olive oil.
With two and a half million producers, olive oil commands a prominent position in Mediterranean agriculture.
Cotton plays a key role in some parts of Greece and Spain.
I believe that the proposals on the table in their entirety respond to the needs of the Community, and for this reason I am opposed to the divergences from the original text that the Daul report proposes.
It gives farmers the freedom and flexibility to farm their land as they see fit and to take advantage of market opportunities, and at the same time it takes account of environmental and social concerns.
Let me also point out that it is important for us to take the requisite decisions, since unless a decision is made on this package, including tobacco, we run the risk of being unable to provide any financial support at all to tobacco-growers next year, because the existing arrangement expires at the end of this year.
I am certainly pleased that your remarks about association with an unhealthy lifestyle did not extend to hops. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that I will limit myself to a general issue since we have rapporteurs for each product who will, therefore, each elaborate on a particular issue.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development reached a compromise agreement on 19&#160;February 2004 within the framework of the project on the reform of the common agricultural policy for tobacco, olive oil, cotton and hops.
The Commission and the Council have the ambitious goal of reaching an overall agreement very quickly.
As Commissioner Fischler said, we must not have a legal vacuum, especially in the tobacco sector.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considered that the principle of decoupling aid, as proposed by the Commission, can only apply if several external elements are also taken into consideration, particularly the fluctuation and development of international agricultural prices as well as the very marked contrast between internal and external prices.
The agricultural policy for Mediterranean products must move towards supporting the work of small farmers and family farming and protecting the number of jobs – hundreds of thousands of them – in rural areas.
Any plan for reform must present all the possible alternatives to guarantee the future for farmers and affected regions, and must take into account the social importance as well as the different production situations in the Member States.
On the contrary, the principle of partial decoupling should allow for more equal remuneration for all farmers and for all production by applying the principle of multifunctionality.
The European agricultural model must be supported.
Europe needs its farmers and needs to support the population in its rural areas.
As you know, the aim of the European Commission, which it stated explicitly, is to end the production of tobacco in Europe.
This is the first case of forced elimination of a product with historic roots in our continent and which, moreover, is not experiencing a market failure.
The consumption of tobacco products would not fall and there would be no beneficial effect on the fight against smoking which we all support.
There would be no beneficial effect on Member States’ tax takings, which in the European Union total between EUR 15 and 65 million a year just in terms of final consumption taxes on tobacco products.
There would be a significant worsening of the European Union’s trade balance following increased imports and reduced exports, with a deficit of more than EUR 800 million a year, equivalent to current Community spending on aid for tobacco producers.
Other consequences would be: the closure of hundreds of European companies involved in the primary processing industry and ancillary activitieswhose existence depends on local availability of the agricultural raw material, with a consequent massive decrease in the taxes paid by the companies and their employees and an even more severe deficit in terms of social security contributions; vast rural areas of the poorest regions of Europe would turn to desert, considering that 80% of European tobacco is grown in Objective 1 areas; there would be a general impoverishment of local systems where the production and processing of tobacco is highly concentrated, which in many cases forms the backbone on which a complex economic and social system is grounded and which currently provides the populations with dignified living conditions.
For the reasons and arguments briefly set out so far, clearly approval of the Commission proposal would, apart from anything else, run counter to the aims of the CAP laid down by Article 33 of the Treaty, which deliberately is not cited as the legal basis of the proposed reform.
I would conclude with an appeal to all my fellow MEPs, in particular those Members from the central and northern European regions since, as we know, tobacco is only produced in certain very specific areas of southern Europe.
Indeed, we intend to maintain the income of able olive producers until 2013 and safeguard the environmental and socio-economic value of olive growing, but we go further than the Commission proposal in strengthening the aspects of food quality and safety, combating fraud, transparency of labelling and new specific support for young persons who need incentives to enter the olive-growing sector.
With regard to the aid system, in our view, the extreme variability of socio-economic and environmental conditions suggests that we should make the decoupled percentage flexible, starting from a minimum of 60% in any case.
To simplify things and to obtain much more considerable resources than those provided for in the Commission’s proposal, with reference to improving quality, we propose combining aid for olive groves and aid for quality in one single measure and entrusting its management to producers’ organisations, since the fragmentation of our olive farms would not allow an appropriate relationship with the market.
We also believe that the Member States should, as with all the other products, have the power to postpone the entry into force of the reform until December 2005 or 2006.
It is particularly important to have appropriate rules that guarantee an adequate income on the global market for the whole of the Mediterranean olive sector, putting the conflictual rivalry between the Mediterranean countries, as advocated at the recent conference of Euro-Mediterranean agriculture ministers held in Venice on 27 November 2003.
Parliament is once again calling for a more satisfactory oil classification system, the prohibition of blends of olive oil and other oils or fats, compulsory indication on labels of the origin of olives – with origin being determined on the basis of the tree and the place of harvesting, and not the place of pressing and processing – and greater transparency in the inward-processing arrangements, in order to ensure that this mechanism cannot be used to brand and sell oils imported from non-Community countries as Community oils.
Nevertheless, I do not support other amendments which have already been rejected by our committee when put to the vote.
It follows a logic which is, not just in my opinion, incompatible with the committee’s vote – and I am surprised to see it in the text before us – just as there is conflicting logic between this amendment and the products of most of the Member States.
I trust that in the final vote we will be able to demonstrate the overall consistency of this opinion and thereby make Parliament’s credibility evident in its negotiations with the Council and the Commission. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed an exceptional occurrence to discuss hops in the middle of a group of Mediterranean products, and this is probably the reason why it was originally down for discussion at a different time.
Last year’s report from the Commission also laid particular emphasis on that point.
The aims and measures of the existing regime, however, namely hop production based on quality and response to market demand, coupled with a comprehensive proof-of-origin system, were ultimately made achievable primarily by vigorous producer groups.
My second point concerns the inclusion in the system of grubbed-up areas, which have helped to stabilise the market, and I emphasise that very strongly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, my personal opinions on the reports which we will be voting on tomorrow differ in certain cases, as does my personal judgment of the mid-term reform of the common agricultural policy.
Health reasons, among others, have been cited, ignoring the fact that dismantling the production of tobacco in Europe will not contribute in the slightest to combating smoking.
On the contrary, the lack of European production would be immediately replaced by more imports from the rest of the world.
Therefore, we used plenty of common sense in committee to maintain a common organisation of the market in tobacco capable of providing long-term prospects for development of the sector; we sought to achieve stability of the budget for the producers and to achieve equal treatment of all the categories of producers in a new common organisation of the market consistent with the need for stability in the agriculture sector and with the continued production of tobacco in Europe, including for strategic reasons.
With regard to the olive oil industry, on the other hand, the reform proposed by the Commission can be broadly endorsed.
In fact, although I do not agree with the decoupling system, as you well know, I think that this principle is acceptable for permanent tree-based cultivation such as olive growing, provided that it helps eliminate a significant amount of red tape regarding the support system and above all, enables us to apply measures concerning quality, traceability, conversion and promotion in order to encourage further development in quality terms.
We also used our common sense with regard to the olive oil system; we have secured long-term financial support for farmers; we worked on the right to historical payment with reference to the average of payments paid to an individual producer as production aid during the reference period, and above all, we have introduced and pushed for financial intervention in support of quality products, traceability, market monitoring, the promotion and strengthening of producers’ organisations and specific environmental measures.
I believe that the proposal which Parliament and the Commission will put forward on olive oil will be highly beneficial for this sector and I hope, Commissioner, that you will accept the suggestions which Parliament’s Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has provided on the tobacco sector. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I will not repeat myself over tobacco, but I find it difficult to believe that Commissioner Fischler thinks that the Commission’s proposal on tobacco is dictated by health reasons.
It is difficult to think this, and not to think instead that 500&#160;000 jobs are being put in jeopardy in Europe.
If there really were a link between the prevalence of smoking and the reduction or elimination of tobacco production, I would be the first in this Chamber to support the Commission’s proposal.
By adopting the proposal we would only be harming the citizens of the Union and the tobacco producers without making a real contribution to the fight against smoking.
I would therefore call on the Commission to take into account this position, put forward by many quarters in this Chamber, both by political parties and by individual MEPs.
With regard to the proposal on olive oil, however, I can say that the approach of the Commission’s proposal is fairly acceptable.
The need for transparency, attention to the quality, environmental and social value of this product are considered in the Commission’s proposal and have been re-examined further in the opinion issued by Parliament’s Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
The choice to make the decoupling percentage flexible, the possibility that the national States will have, I hope, to modify these percentages, is a positive process of osmosis between the rigid rules of the Commission and the choices of the Member States, an intelligent decision which will allow the national governments to adopt the most appropriate options for the regions.
The question of combating the mixing of oils remains unchanged and well-founded, in order to guarantee transparency and consumer protection, the fight against fraud, the scaling down of inward processing and the attainment of labelling which states and really enhances the place of production and not of processing.
I would just call on Commissioner Fischler to see that, following the vote in the Council, with Parliament’s opinion, the regulations which are adopted are consistent with the decisions, something which unfortunately we have not seen in the past. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, on Saturday, the day before Cancún's failure, the alliance of African countries and countries with the lowest incomes called it a day.
They felt completely ignored, particularly by the United States, which supports the cotton farmers in South Carolina with no less than EUR 3.5 billion, whereas Europe supports its cotton sector with only EUR 800 million.
In the same way that AIDS medicines symbolise the break-through in Doha, cotton symbolises the failure in Cancún.
Cotton aid in Europe forms part of agricultural policy that involves high subsidies for cereal, meat and milk.
Previously, we Social Democrats have tried to start by decoupling production support by 50% and shifting towards rural policy, nature conservation and animal welfare, in other words, shifting from quantity to quality.
The Commission is now tabling a modest proposal to decouple by 60% and to channel a good chunk of those subsidies to rural development in the area concerned, but the majority in the European Parliament is hiding behind the US and behind uncertainty as to the outcome, and so pleads in favour of 20% decoupling.
I can understand my Spanish fellow MEPs if they do not only want to deal with cotton, but also with cereal, meat and milk, but I regret that we are not acting more boldly and demonstrating that we have learnt the lesson of Cancún.
I hope that by doing so, we are sending a clear message to the Commission.
I would urge the Commission to persevere. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we are currently engaged in pursuing interim reform of the CAP.
This proposal means abandoning a policy that had proved successful.
The current COM for olive oil has resulted in substantial improvements in terms of quality and consumer safety.
Even if the agencies survived, what instruments would they have at their disposal to guarantee the quality of the oil?
On one occasion in committee I blew my top and made it clear that decoupling is actually a means of ensuring that the money remains with the farmers, especially in the case of tobacco.
However, we must be aware that, in view of the fact that cotton prices cover only a third of production costs and tobacco prices cover only about half the cost of production, there is naturally a great danger that the absence of any compulsion to grow these products in order to qualify for the premium will result in other crops being grown instead.
The main characteristic that distinguishes these products from the agricultural produce of northern Europe may well be that the production and processing of these Mediterranean crops involve more seasonal workers, who might lose their jobs in the event of a switch to other crops.
The vital requirement, then, is to promote rural development and to rely on other products with a positive knock-on effect in terms of employment.
There is a need to persuade industry of the need to start paying decent prices at long last for agricultural products, which are, in some cases, only a minor ingredient of its end products.
I must therefore say that I endorse the Commission’s proposals in principle and shall vote accordingly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in line with the basic principles for reforming the CAP, which was approved last June, common rules have been established for systems of direct aid for farmers.
I shall focus, however, on the consequences of this proposal for Portugal.
As regards olive oil, the Commission appears to be unaware of the planting of 30&#160;000 hectares of new olive groves with the right to production aid that the Council authorised in 1998.
In fact, Portugal has drawn up a programme for planting these 30&#160;000 hectares, which will take place from 2000 to 2006, and its implementation will run as set out in the programme.
This proposal for a revision that the Commission has submitted, however, has destroyed this programme along with the expectations created for producers.
As regards tobacco, the Commission proposal to totally decouple aid will cause farmers to swiftly abandon this crop in Portugal.
This abandoning of production will have extremely damaging effects not only on employment in farming but also on the processing industry.
Mr President, we are once again faced with a Commission proposal that fails to take account either of the specific characteristics of Portuguese farming and indeed of other regional forms of farming, or of the risks that farmers will desert farming altogether or of the unemployment-related social problems that go hand in hand with this process.
This is once again unfairly penalising the income of our farmers and we cannot ... &#160;&#160; – Mr President, decoupling support from production is said to give European agriculture a head start in the WTO negotiations, or so Commissioner Fischler always maintains.
European agricultural policy has meanwhile been adapted, but the effects within the World Trade Organisation are still not visible.
I am therefore on my guard when the Commission justifies the decoupling of cotton premiums by using the argument that the World Trade Organisation insists on it.
After all, the European Union accounts for not even 3% of the world's cotton production, while the European Union imports 48% of its cotton requirements duty-free.
This reform must focus on improving the quality and, where possible, maintaining employment in this sector.
Agricultural subsidies, however, should not be used as a kind of structural fund.
It is important for the financial impact of reform to be closely monitored and to intervene in good time, where necessary.
The summit of Gothenburg's decision to reduce the support for tobacco production was the right one.
Unlike cotton, tobacco is not simply an agricultural product.
In my view, decoupling, alternative crops and modulation for the benefit of rural development cannot be introduced quickly enough in this sector. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Fischler, the proposal for the reform of the COM in tobacco presented by the European Commission is based on a mistaken assumption.
The Commission intends to make the total abolition of public aid to European tobacco producers a key element in the anti-smoking campaign.
Furthermore, as the FAO – which specialises in the subject – has emphasised, a public policy that seeks to reduce excessive consumption of tobacco must focus on behaviour rather than on the product, on demand rather than on supply.
It follows that undertaking, as the Commission is doing, to make European production disappear at a time when the European consumer market remains a very important and growing one, is like offering the whole of this market on a plate to our competitors, to non-European tobacco producers.
European producers specialise primarily in varieties that are fairly neutral in terms of aroma, but with a very low level of alkaloid.
I am thinking, for example, about Virginie de Vendée from Poitou-Charentes, in the Loire Atlantique.
Let us take care to ensure that the disappearance of production does not entail, in this sector as in many others, delocalisation and transformation.
It is a case, however, of very localised production, in often sensitive regions where it is not always possible to replace production.
Now, the reform as it has been proposed can only end in the complete abandon of the tobacco growing in all production areas and therefore leads to unemployment there.
The illusory reference to the second pillar proposed by the Commission has clearly and fortunately been rejected.
Maximum recoupling, major subsidiarity left to Member States to apply the regulation according to the situation in individual countries and reliance on groups of producers, is a real alternative, that the Committee on Agriculture is proposing in order to maintain cultivation in Europe whilst the consumer market is there.
In response to a number of questions in Parliament and even today, the European&#160;Commission has admitted that 23% of the olive trees in Spain would cease to receive Community aid.
The Commission feels that this deficit can be dealt with by drawing on the national reserve of rights to aid to be set up following the reform of the CAP agreed in September&#160;2003.
I shall therefore be voting in favour of this compromise and I feel the Commission should accept it.
As regards the Commission, I think measures should be taken to ensure the Spanish financial statement does not suffer because actual production was not represented accurately.
Consequently, aid should not be restricted solely to aid for production.
These are bad proposals, both because they uphold the discrimination against specifically Mediterranean produce, which has always received poor treatment at the hands of the CAP, and also because they provide an incentive for farmers to abandon production, by decoupling aid and by failing to increase the appropriations and mechanisms to regulate the market, which would enable us to remedy any potential injustices in the distribution of aid amongst countries, amongst forms of production and amongst producers.
As a matter of fact, the stated objective of last July’s CAP reform is to make budgetary savings, more specifically of EUR&#160;113&#160;million in annual savings by 2013, and also to ensure the liberalisation of farming in the WTO negotiations.
I am talking about olive and tobacco farming for example, and these are often the main source of income in these regions.
It is unacceptable that no account is taken of the social and environmental consequences, particularly in mountainous regions and in other least-favoured areas, as is the case in Portugal, where very few alternatives to these crops of olive oil, tobacco and cotton exist and where the production of fruits, vegetables and wines is experiencing serious difficulties.
It is unacceptable that the Commission takes no account of the specific characteristics of Portugal’s situation, or even of the 1998 decision approving the planting of 30&#160;000 new hectares of olive groves with the right to aid for modernising the sector.
It is unacceptable that refunds for olive oil used in preserves should be brought to an end and national monitoring agencies closed down, insisting on a policy that undermines the quality of oil, by not banning the blending of olive oil with other vegetable oils and by allowing misleading labelling for products that are not genuinely oil.
Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not succeed in encouraging these people to stay on the land, there will be a heavy price to pay for our failure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, adoption of the report tomorrow can constitute a clear, positive signal with regard to the partial decoupling method, a solution which would avoid dismantling, in an extremely short space of time, the production of tobacco in Europe, thereby safeguarding 500&#160;000 jobs of which 135&#160;000 are in Italy alone.
Adoption of this text would also enable a new stage of negotiations to get underway in the Council and with regard to the Commission, so that the demands of the producers in this sector can be met in full.
First of all, it would be desirable to reconsider the conditions of eligibility for decoupled aid by calculating it, apart from on the basis of the three-yearly historical average, also on the basis of further quotas which the producer has obtained since 1 January 2001.
A further million jobs are directly linked to the sector.
We are now dealing with cotton, tobacco, hops, and olive oil which are all products with regional sensitivities.
The Commission proposals are something of a step backwards from the reforms of last year with the exception of hops.
I fully understand the difficulties in these sectors and respect the work of the rapporteurs but in the longer term the rural economies which are affected by decoupling are best helped by development measures which can be targeted more directly and effectively.
This is the approach for different products which is being applied in parts of my own region.
I also wanted to point out to the Commissioner that not only is there a problem concerning the depressed areas of the Mediterranean, a problem regarding monoculture where it is difficult to recover and convert the land, but also and above all a problem of social cohesion, in addition to the problem of ancillary activities and consequently the loss of thousands of jobs which endangers precisely the social stability of this reality.
Therefore, while the issue of agriculture – in particular the CAP issue – also must be considered from a political viewpoint – just as we want Europe to do with respect to all the decisive issues for its development – it must be said that we have to make an effort, Commissioner, more of an effort to salvage something with regard to Mediterranean crops, since too much is done in favour of mainland agriculture, for France and Germany.
Unfortunately, the report by the European Parliament, apart from a few improvements to the letter, has also been drafted entirely in the spirit of the Commission proposal, which should hardly even constitute the basis for debate in the European Parliament.
The gradual decoupling of subsidies from agricultural production and their conversion to Community charity completely subjugates small- and medium-sized farmers to the interests of big business and the food industry multinationals, which will also make full use of the WTO agreements to buy agricultural products at knock-down prices.
It is crystal clear that small- and medium-sized farmers will receive far less money in compensation for the abolition of basic crops such as tobacco, cotton and oil.
All this relates to products in most of which the European Union has an acute deficit and which it imports in massive quantities.
All this is happening without any social, development or environmental criteria, with complete indifference to the painful consequences which it will have not only for the agricultural sector, but also for the economy connected to it in areas with acute social and economic problems.
For us, these proposals do not admit of any amendment or embellishment.
That is why, if they are not withdrawn, they will come up against the fighting ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, I join my fellow Members in their criticisms of the Commission’s proposal for tobacco, but I will also try to explain why I am rejecting it with regard to the reasons set out in its favour.
To give a comparison with other crops, durum wheat costs EUR&#160;21.4 and corn costs EUR&#160;12.8.
The fight against cancer really is an untenable reason.
Indeed, the possible elimination of European tobacco in order to contribute to the fight against cancer is totally irrelevant.
On the other hand, the Commission has been more sensible with regard to olive oil.
The proposal it has tabled in this regard is undoubtedly acceptable, especially if it is perfected by maintaining the commitment to give the Member States broad leeway to decide the extent of decoupling, which in any case is already acceptable as the 60/40 ratio determined by the committee.
That is so, but they are considerably less ambitious in their scope, even in the Commission's proposals.
We are talking about the poorest regions, in some cases, of some of the poorer countries in the EU.
However, we are also aware of the social consequences and have misgivings that the Commission has not sufficiently borne those consequences in mind.
That is absolutely clear and as a member of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, it is something I have to emphasise while supporting the overall PSE position. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the reports under discussion concern extending agricultural reform to olive, cotton and tobacco production.
The key issue is the same as with the other reforms: the de-coupling of support and production.
The de-coupling of support and production will probably appeal in particular to those opposed to tobacco cultivation.
In this way the EU would be vigorously supporting the abandonment of its cultivation and a switch to some other form of production or set-aside measures.
The reform will be very difficult to apply in practice as farms vary in different parts of the EU, as do the conditions of their management.
Let me deal, in the light of the debate, with the tabled amendments, beginning with the multisectoral amendments and decoupling.
Amendments Nos 1, 5, 10, 11, 45, 81 and 83 call for an increase in production-linked aid for cotton-growers to 80%, and Amendment No 44 links aid to an obligation relating to the cotton harvest.
I regret that I must reject all of these amendments, because they are inconsistent with the aim of significantly loosening the link between production volumes and aid.
Amendments Nos 26, 63, 67, 68 and 85, which relate to tobacco, call for 70% of aid to tobacco producers to remain linked to production.
Some amendments also call for an option to postpone the reforms in respect of olive oil, cotton and tobacco – these are Amendments Nos 7, 8, 24, 43, 74, 76, 77, 79 and 80.
The Commission, however, wishes to press ahead with the reform of these sectors as quickly as possible, so it cannot agree to these amendments.
One such example is the proposal in Amendment No 58 that Member States be given the option of regionalising their national ceilings, which can certainly be considered.
I also believe that the suggestions made in Amendment No 84 are interesting.
This amendment seeks to extend the reference period for individual holdings in order to ascertain the amount of the single payment and eligibility for aid in cases where the olive groves had not yet started producing during the reference period.
This must not, however, lead to an increase in the total amount of support paid to olive-growers by each Member State.
Lastly, I am also prepared to consider an adjustment to the Council’s Annex IV with a view to ensuring that olive groves are cultivated in accordance with good farming and environmental practice.
I am also in favour of quality improvements and support for young olive-growers, but I have serious doubts about the proposals contained in Amendments Nos 16, 21, 22, 52, 56, 60 and 61.
Finally, I can also accept Amendment No 20 and parts of Amendments Nos 17, 54, 55, 58 and 84 in the Daul report.
Now a few remarks on the Lavarra report.
In connection with proposals made in the Lavarra report, I should like to emphasise that the Commission has certain instruments which enable it to intervene if the market situation so demands, particularly with regard to imports.
Some of the amendments proposed in this report relate to the automatic activation of the system of aid for private storage.
Such a mechanism, however, would be contrary to the rationale and purpose of this system, which is supposed to enable us to cope with crises, and so I cannot endorse this type of amendment.
I do, however, agree with the idea that we should promote the quality of olive oil.
Moreover, Community grants for quality programmes can be funded from the support programmes for rural areas.
And so to cotton.
I agree that the current support regime for cotton is a highly specific scheme and that it is based in part on Acts of Accession.
For this reason, I cannot consent to these amendments.
Amendments Nos 9, 37 and 70 are targeted against the transfer of funds to rural development.
For this reason, I cannot accept these amendments either.
As far as producer associations are concerned, I believe that exclusion of the processing industry, with its own particular interests, is certainly not the best way to develop a quality policy for cotton.
Accordingly, although I cannot accept the relevant amendments, I am prepared to give producer organisations a sufficiently active role in shaping the future of the cotton sector.
I regret that I must reject all the remaining amendments in the Daul report that relate to cotton.
I must remind the House that even the extension of the premium scheme for the years 2002 to 2004 was only possible because the Commission undertook to reform the sector.
The difference is not that farmers are no longer receiving support but that they are no longer compelled to grow tobacco.
I might remind you that it was said at the Gothenburg Summit, in the context of discussions on sustainable development, that only healthy products are to be supported in the framework of Community policies.
Amendment No 66 proposes a buy-back programme.
This transfer will enable the Member States to take appropriate measures to facilitate the redevelopment of tobacco-growing regions as part of the programmes for the development of rural areas.
Amendments Nos 27 and 38 propose that monies generated by modulation be used to fund specific measures taken by the Member States in areas where tobacco production accounts for at least 20% of the gross marketable output of industrial crops.
The Commission is convinced that there is no need for specific measures of this type, because the funds generated by modulation will be available to all sectors in the form of additional support for rural-development measures.
The Commission can approve Amendment No 62 but must reject all the other amendments relating to tobacco.
The Daul report is consistent with the main principles of the proposal with regard to hops.
Under the first part of Amendment No 42 and Amendments Nos 82 and 86, farmers who have discontinued hop production and have received grubbing-up aid during the reference period would still be entitled to the direct payment.
In the calculation of the reference amount, in other words, no account would be taken of the grubbing-up aid.
Accordingly, the Commission is unable to endorse these amendments.
Amendments Nos 35 and 36 and the second part of Amendment No 42 relate to support for the activities of producer organisations.
It will naturally be possible to form producer organisations in the future, and the Commission believes there must therefore be an appropriate means of ensuring that these organisations have access to funding. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner Fischler.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.(1) The Commission can accept the following amendments wholly or partly and subject to rewording: 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 20, 21 (1st part), 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 33, 35, 38, 40, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 48, 49, 50, 51 (1st part), 52, 55, 56, 57, 58, 60, 62 (1st and 3rd part), 63, 65, 66, 68 (2nd part), 70 (1st part), 71, 75 and 79.
On the other hand it notes that this issue has already been submitted to the Court of Justice for determination (in another case).
In these circumstances and taking into account the overall political context of this procedure, the Commission is prepared to withdraw Article 55(2) and (3) of this current proposal awaiting the Court's determination of this issue and reserves the right to propose again measures providing for criminal sanctions in this field.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 4, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 21 (2nd part), 22, 30, 34, 37, 39, 41, 47, 51 (2nd part), 53, 54, 59, 61, 62 (2nd part), 64, 67, 68 (1st part), 69, 70 (2nd part), 72, 73, 74, 77 or 78.
