Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote - (CS) I welcome the proposal to create a global alliance on climate change between the European Union, the least developed countries and the small, developing island states.
Adapting to climate change can be said to require costs of USD 80 billion because the key of course would be to halt deforestation in the tropical rainforests.
The alliance should not replace humanitarian assistance but help to minimise the extent of the expected catastrophes by providing support through innovative programmes, through strengthening administrative structures at national and local levels and also through educating the inhabitants of threatened island states. - (PL) Madam President, I voted against, as I believe that the whole concept of drastic limitation of carbon dioxide emissions as proposed by the Commission, the European Parliament and the European Council is fundamentally wrong and does not have an appropriate legal basis.
If, however, the policy were only implemented in Europe, it would be a totally unnecessary waste of EUR 500 billion.
It is for these reasons that I am strongly in favour of the new concept contained in the document on the Erasmus Mundus programme. (NL) Mr President, I have voted against Mrs De Sarnez's report, because it is unacceptable to me that the programme should be extended without any fundamental changes being made to the discrimination against European students compared to their non-European counterparts who wish to make use of grants.
A non-European student receives an annual grant of EUR 21 000, while European students who wish to study outside of the European Union via Erasmus Mundus can only count on EUR 3 100.
Distrust can only be eased by full disclosure.
In the case of genetically modified micro-organisms, too, the goal should be to render the involvement of the European Parliament compulsory in health and environmental safety matters.
I am pleased that my proposals for amendments to this effect, backed unanimously by the Committee on the Environment, have now also been adopted by the European Parliament. (IT) Madam President, I feel I must explain more clearly why I disagree and consider it unjust that the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Gebhardt report should be declared defunct because of the vote taken on an entirely different matter.
It is one thing to say that one can choose the law of any country in the world, provided that it does not breach human rights; it is quite another to say that one can choose from among the laws of the Member States of the European Union.
I do approve, however - and I hope that as the debate on this regulation proceeds my argument will be accepted - of the efforts to create a European legal area, with European harmonisation.
I and the Conservative delegation to Parliament voted against this Gebhardt report.
Written explanations of vote I have voted in favour of the report by Mrs Niebler on the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion on behalf of the European Community of the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation between the European Community and the Government of New Zealand, which is the only non-European industrialised country with which the European Community has not yet drawn up an agreement on science and technology.
Currently, cooperation between the Community and New Zealand is based on an informal agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the Commission and the Government of New Zealand, which was signed and entered into force on 17 May 1991.
in writing. - (SV) The Swedish Conservatives support the Commission's proposal to establish a special programme to help poor developing countries to prepare themselves for, and to adapt to, the consequences of climate change.
We are also in favour of the main content of Parliament's report on the Commission's proposal and have therefore chosen to vote in favour of the report.
However, we are opposed to the request to increase the budget from the current EUR 60 million to EUR 2 billion in 2010 to fund the Global Climate Change Alliance.
in writing. - (PT) Regulation (EC) No 639/2004 provides for a number of derogations from the entry/exit regime established under Article 13 of Regulation (EC) No 2371/2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy.
However, the belated adoption of the Commission legal instrument enabling the Member States concerned to allocate state aid as well as limited shipyard capacity have made it impossible to meet the deadline relating to the entry into the fleet of fishing vessels benefiting from state aid for renovation up to 31 December 2008, as specified in Regulation (EC) No 639/2004.
In its report, the European Parliament, specifically its Committee on Fisheries, defended the extension of deadlines for state aid for the renewal and registration of vessels, both in relation to the Regulation currently in force and in relation to the proposal presented by the European Commission, according to which the deadline should be extended only by one year, in other words until 31 December 2009.
in writing. - (SK) During the period 19 - 27 July I visited New Zealand as a member of an 11-strong delegation from the European Parliament.
Our meetings with the students of the European Institute at the university in Auckland and at Canterbury University in Christchurch were very inspiring.
We talked about the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Community in the area of research, technological development and demonstration activities and about the opportunities for cooperation between the EU and New Zealand in the areas of science and research.
It is for this reason, within the framework of the consultation process, that I support the signing of the Science and Technology Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and the government of New Zealand, and I therefore voted in favour of the report of the rapporteur Angelika Niebler.
New Zealand is one of the least polluted countries in the world, a fact of which it is justly proud.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted in favour of Mrs Niebler's report on the conclusion of the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation between the European Community and the Government of New Zealand.
As we see from the proposal for a Council decision, New Zealand is the only non-European industrialised country with which the Community has not yet drawn up a formal agreement on science and technology.
I believe that this will enable the Community to take full advantage of the potential of cooperation with New Zealand on the basis of principles of effective protection of intellectual property and fair division of intellectual property rights.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the report on the opinion concerning the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of a Memorandum of Cooperation between the International Civil Aviation Authority and the European Community regarding security audits/inspections and related matters - C6-0320/2008 -.
It is particularly important to bear in mind that implementation of the memorandum negotiated will facilitate better use of the always limited resources in the area of monitoring and of compliance with regulations.
Therefore, in accordance with the aims of the Community civil aviation policy, the Memorandum of Cooperation will strengthen the relationship between the Community and ICAO and allow for better use of the limited resources of Member States in the field of compliance monitoring.
I therefore voted in favour of the Costa report.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the legislative resolution approving the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council relating to insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles, and the enforcement of the obligation to insure against such liability, and this on the basis of the report by my British fellow Member, Mrs Wallis.
In this particular case, we are codifying a variety of directives dating from 1972, 1983, 1990, 2000 and 2005, together with texts amending these.
I consider that the policy of consolidating Community law should be one of the European Commission's priorities.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the legislative resolution approving the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning simple pressure vessels, and this on the basis of the report by my British fellow Member, Mrs Wallis.
This is a commendable wish, but I am sorry that, in view of the development and the complexity of the texts, the Commission has not revised its position dating from the 1 April 1987 and consisting of instructing its services to go ahead and codify all legislative acts no later than after their tenth modification while, at the same time, emphasising that this is a minimum rule and that, in the interests of clarity and proper understanding of Community legislation, the services were to make efforts to codify the texts for which they were responsible at still shorter intervals.
In this particular case, we are codifying a variety of directives dating from 1987, 1990 and 1993, together with texts amending them.
I consider that the policy of consolidating Community law should be one of the European Commission's priorities and that the current situation is not in order, particularly in relation to the Member States and Europeans.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the legislative resolution approving the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the supplementary protection certificate for medicinal products, and this on the basis of the report by my British fellow Member, Mrs Wallis.
I am sorry that, in view of the development and the complexity of the texts, the Commission has not revised its position dating from the 1 April 1987 and consisting of instructing its services to go ahead and codify all legislative acts no later than after their tenth modification while, at the same time, emphasising that this was a minimum rule and that, in the interests of clarity and proper understanding of Community legislation, the services were to make efforts to codify the texts for which they were responsible at still shorter intervals.
In this particular case, we are consolidating the Council regulation of 1992 and the four texts that modified it in, respectively, 1994, 2003, 2005 and 2006.
I am sorry that, in view of the development and the complexity of the texts, the Commission has not revised its position dating from 1 April 1987 and consisting of instructing its services to go ahead and codify all legislative acts no later than after their tenth modification while, at the same time, emphasising that this was a minimum rule and that the services were to make efforts to codify the texts for which they were responsible at still shorter intervals.
In this particular case, we are consolidating the Council regulation of 1993 and the three texts that modified it in, respectively, 2000, 2002 and 2005.
I am sorry that, in view of the development and the complexity of the texts, the Commission has not revised its position dating from the 1 April 1987 and consisting of instructing its services to go ahead and codify all legislative acts no later than after their tenth modification while, at the same time, emphasising that this was a minimum rule and that the services were to make efforts to codify the texts for which they were responsible at still shorter intervals.
In this particular case, we are consolidating the Council regulation of 1987 and the five texts that modified it in, respectively, 1990, 1992, 1994, 2003 and 2004.
I consider that the policy of consolidating Community law should be one of the European Commission's priorities and that the current situation is not in order, particularly in relation to the Member States and Europeans.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the legislative resolution approving, subject to amendments, the proposal for a Council regulation amending the regulation of 2000 applying the decision relating to the system of the Communities' own resources, and this on the basis of the report by my excellent French colleague, former minister Mr Lamassoure.
In accordance with the interinstitutional agreement of the 17 May 2006 relating to budgetary discipline and sound financial management, I support the fact that Parliament is duly involved with all the phases of the analysis.
The European Union is not a State and cannot in any circumstances take it upon itself to levy tax.
I agree with the grounds on which it is based and I share the view expressed by the rapporteur when he acknowledged that the Commission's latest decision, claiming to update the implementing regulation on own resources in line with the Council decision of 7 June 2007, would, in its current wording, further complicate the procedure, providing for continual exceptions and special conditions for certain Member States.
in writing. - (FR) On the basis of the report by my Belgian fellow Member, Mr Deprez, I voted in favour of the legislative resolution modifying the proposal for a Council framework decision on the European Evidence Warrant for the purpose of obtaining objects, documents and data for use in proceedings in criminal matters.
Like a large number of my fellow Members, I welcome the proposal for a Council framework decision that provides for applying the principle of mutual recognition to a European Warrant for the purpose of obtaining objects, documents and data for use in proceedings in criminal matters.
This European Warrant, hereafter referred to as the European Evidence Warrant, will facilitate faster and more efficient legal cooperation in criminal matters and will replace the current system of mutual legal aid in this area, and this in accordance with the conclusions of the European Council.
This principle forms the basis of judicial cooperation, the ultimate aim of which is to provide faster, effective judicial assistance for all Member States.
I would like to point out that in order to guarantee a coherent European legal area and to ensure that judicial cooperation on criminal matters produces the desired effects, the legislative framework should be implemented by all Member States and the instruments should simplify assistance among the various national judicial authorities, without forgetting, of course, the protection of personal data.
The European Evidence Warrant provides for automatic recognition of court decisions handed down in another Member State.
This is quite problematic, as it entails far-reaching amendments to criminal proceedings in the Member States.
This could be achieved through bodies such as Eurojust and the European Police College.
The fisheries policy pursued by the EU is not, and has never been, based on well thought-out, joint decisions.
The proposed amendments are far too feeble to have any real significance.
As the MEP for the region in question, I am not yet - I could be with more evidence - convinced of the need to go so far, so fast.
in writing. - (PT) The aim of this report is to 'polish up' the European strategy for preserving cod stocks.
Express reference to the RACs and Member States in the legislation will give a clear indication that the EU institutions are serious about involving these stakeholders in future development of fisheries management systems.
in writing. - (SV) The status of cod is extremely serious and requires immediate and forceful action.
However, the Commission's proposals are inadequate and have shortcomings in many areas.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 423/2004 as regards the recovery of cod stocks and amending Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93.
in writing. - I welcome this effort to address the problems related to the 2004 Cod Recovery Plan which has clearly proven to be ineffective.
The most important point made in this proposal relates to reducing discards.
in writing. - (FR) On the basis of the report by my Finnish fellow member, Mr Virrankoski, I voted in favour of a resolution designed to approve, without amendment, the Draft amending Budget No 7/2008 of the EU, relating to the use of the European Union's Solidarity Fund to the tune of EUR 12.8 million by way of commitment and payment appropriations.
The sum of EUR 12.8 million by way of commitment and payment appropriations will thus be mobilised under the Solidarity Fund for France, and this via a 2008 amending budget adopted in parallel.
I support the decision to allocate aid from the Solidarity Fund to France for Martinique and Guadeloupe, which were hit by Hurricane Dean in August 2007.
in writing. - (SV) France has submitted an application to mobilise the Fund as a consequence of 'Hurricane Dean', which affected Martinique and Guadeloupe in August 2007.
It is unreasonable to think that the EU should intervene and jointly finance projects that a rich Member State should be able to cope with themselves.
We have therefore chosen to vote against the report as a whole.
in writing. - (PT) The Commission proposes to mobilise the European Solidarity Fund in favour of France.
During 2008 a global amount of EUR 260 411 197 has been mobilised in favour of the United Kingdom (EUR 162 387 985), Greece (EUR 89 769 009) and Slovenia (EUR 8 254 203).
The Commission proposes to mobilise the EU Solidarity Fund for a total amount of EUR 12 780 000, to be allocated from appropriations not used in the Cohesion Fund.
These proposals also aimed to acknowledge the specific nature of natural disasters in the Mediterranean region, such as drought and fire, within this Fund.
in writing. - (DE) The effects of natural disasters are varied and generally devastating.
In my opinion, more attention should be given to this area, which is why I am abstaining from the vote on this report.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted in favour of Mr Böge's report on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund, requested by France, to provide for the emergency situation caused by Hurricane Dean in Martinique and Guadeloupe in August 2007.
I agree with the rapporteur and share the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development that, in this case, the use of the fund is entirely in line with the provisions of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006.
in writing. - (FR) On the basis of the report by Mr Böge, I voted in favour of the resolution approving the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the mobilisation, within the framework of the European Union's general budget for 2008, of the sum of EUR 10.8 million by way of commitment and payment appropriations under the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund with a view to aiding the automobile sector in Spain and the textiles sector in Lithuania.
It has requested a contribution of EUR 10 471 778 to cover part of the cost of assistance measures which amount to nearly EUR 20.94 million.
Given that the Fund exists precisely in order to provide additional support for workers who find themselves threatened by the new competitive conditions and by commercial practices in today's world of business, I think that in this case the request for mobilisation of the fund can be approved without question.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the draft resolution which prevents the introduction of passenger screening as a means of tightening civil aviation security.
In view of this, the European Data Protection Supervisor should formulate and issue a point of view so that any measures targeted at passenger security are implemented in compliance with the regulations governing personal data.
The European Union's structural funds support planned changes and their management in the framework of such actions as lifelong learning on a long-term basis.
The European Union should pay particular attention to this Fund.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the resolution following the Commission communication on building a Global Climate Change Alliance between the European Union and poor developing countries most vulnerable to climate change, and this on the basis of the own-initiative report by my Swedish colleague, Mr Wijkman.
Climate change is therefore in danger of further delaying achievement of the millennium development objectives (MDOs) in a large number of these countries, and I welcome the Global Climate Change Alliance (GCCA) that the European Commission proposes should be set up between the EU and poor developing countries most vulnerable to climate change, in particular the LDCs and the SIDSs and ACP (African, Caribbean and Pacific) countries.
As a member of the Committee on Development I am particularly sensitive to this decision, which has the potential to be combined with the international negotiations on climate change in Poznań in 2008 and Copenhagen in 2009.
in writing. - (LT) Developing countries have contributed least to climate change, but stand to suffer the most from its consequences and will be least able to deal with them.
The industrialised nations are historically responsible for climate change and have a moral duty to contribute to the efforts of the developing countries to adapt to the consequences of climate change.
However, the EUR 60 million allocated to the Global Climate Change Alliance is wholly insufficient and therefore it is important for the Commission to set out long-term funding and allocate at least EUR 2 billion until 2010, and EUR 5 billion until 2020.
The budget of EUR 60 million provided for by the European Commission is not enough.
The long-term funding objective should be one of at least EUR 2 billion between now and 2010 and of EUR 5 billion to EUR 10 billion between now and 2020.
in writing. - (EL) The EU is exaggerating the current dangers from climate change caused by the irresponsible exploitation of natural resources by big business, not in order to push forward substantial measures to deal with it, but to frighten people, to improve its position in the competition with other imperialists and to find a solution in terms of the over-accumulation of capital by securing even bigger profits for the monopolies.
The EP report on building a climate change alliance between the EU and developing countries is open interventionism in the internal affairs of these countries with regard to the organisation of their economy, society and administrative mechanisms, and offers scant financial reward to the plutocracy of these countries or threatens military intervention under its preventive policy to address security threats and climate-related conflicts, thereby endorsing the Solana report on these topics.
However, fighting poverty and initiating efforts to tackle environmental problems at a global level should be carried out within the framework of the UN.
After careful consideration, the June List has therefore chosen to vote against the report.
However, the approach favoured, with the EU at the helm, is one of joint responsibility of all countries.
In addition to other aspects, the text adopted by the EP not only contains contradictions but also completely ignores these central issues.
However, whatever approach is taken - or approaches, given that there must be multiple answers - we must acknowledge that some countries are less able to react.
The subject of climate change has been on the agenda for many years: much has been done, but it is not yet enough.
The aim is to step up action on climate change outside of the EU.
We therefore need to promote political dialogue between the EU and developing countries in order to encourage the incorporation of factors connected with climate change into plans for reducing poverty at local and national level.
The cost of climate change could well be as high as EUR 80 billion.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the report 'Building a Global Climate Change Alliance between the European Union and poor developing countries' as these countries are the most vulnerable to climate change.
The 2007 review of the EU Action Plan on Climate Change and Development mentioned above shows that the progress on mainstreaming climate change into the European Union's development policies has been insufficient and far too slow.
Even though the EU has set itself the target of becoming a leader in the fight against climate change, the EU budget does not reflect the priority given to these policies.
in writing. - (PL) The protection of the natural environment should undoubtedly be a priority for each Member State and for the Community as a whole.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the resolution on governance and partnership at national and regional levels and a basis for projects in the sphere of regional policy, put forward on the basis of the own-initiative report by my French fellow Member, Jean Marie Beaupuy.
in writing. - (RO) I would like to welcome the initiative on compiling a report on the subject of good local and regional governance, as well as the importance of the notion of partnership between the four or more levels of power: local, regional, national and European.
The 'integrated approach' to European legislation praised by the reporter, which consists of taking this level into account in all European policies with a territorial, economic and social impact, contributes to this development.
However, it is important to remember that it is as a result of institutional competition that the best forms of governance are tested and distinguished from those forms that are less suitable.
in writing. - (PT) Obviously there is no question about our support for the essential participation of local and regional authorities or other public authorities, social and economic organisations and the general public in the definition of objectives and programmes and in the implementation and control of the use of Community structural funds within each Member State, given that we have always argued for this.
However, we cannot allow other objectives to be pursued under cover of this legitimate aspiration, such as, for example, the merger within the 'future cohesion policy for the period after 2013' of the various Community funds (European Regional Development Fund, European Social Fund, Cohesion Fund and European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development).
This proposal could jeopardise what should be the central objective of the Community budget, in other words its function to redistribute wealth among the 'cohesion' countries and the 'wealthy' countries, particularly since it would eliminate funds which are only intended for the former (in addition to jeopardising Community funding of 'common policies' such as agriculture and fisheries).
In order to legitimise the decision-making process and counterbalance any political influence as part of the public consultations during the preparatory phase of the operational programmes, it is extremely important for local and regional authorities as well as civil society to be involved.
in writing. - (DA) The Danish Members of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament have voted in favour of the own-initiative report on better regulation, but wish to emphasise that removal of administrative burdens can be a very political process.
in writing. - (PT) If we have to discuss the need for 'better lawmaking' before debating the content of European legislation, then we should be considering how much of this legislation is actually needed.
Although I am convinced that the EU is frequently the correct arena in which to act, it should also be noted that the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental and is often pushed aside in the name of false efficiency and an unnecessary result.
in writing. - (FR) The Commission has just published its 24th annual report on its control of application of Community law by the Member States.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted in favour of Mrs Geringer de Oedenberg's report on monitoring the application of Community law.
In addition, I am convinced that there should be greater cooperation between the European Parliament and national parliaments, in order to promote and indeed to add force to the application of Community law at national, regional and local levels.
I also approve of the inclusion in the text of the issue of the management of the Structural Funds: Member States need to be reminded that if they wish to benefit from the Funds within the 2007-2013 financial framework then they must adapt their legislation to comply with European law, above all with regard to environmental protection, in such a way as appropriately to foster economic and social development at regional level.
During today's sitting of Parliament I voted in favour of the annual report of the Committee on Legal Affairs on monitoring the application of Community law in 2006.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the resolution on a strategy on future implementation of the institutional aspects of the regulatory agencies, and I did so on the basis of the report drawn up at the initiative of my excellent colleague and friend, the former Greek Minister, Mr Papastamkos.
It is regrettable that the efforts deployed by Parliament and the Commission with a view to establishing legally constraining oversight of the European regulatory agencies have produced no significant result.
The variety of these agencies in terms of structure and function at a European and national level raises questions regarding regulation, good management and the closeness of institutions in the sense of centralisation and decentralisation.
The application of parliamentary control to the structure and activities of regulatory agencies should conform with the classic principle of democracy, which demands an increase in the political responsibility of all institutions with executive powers.
The true problem is that 40 % of them are founded by virtue of Article 308 of the Treaty, that famous article that makes it possible to increase the competencies of Brussels when they are not expressly provided for by the laws and regulations.
However, since it is, even so, an attempt to put a bit of order into this jumble, we cannot reject it.
For this reason, we shall abstain.
in writing. - (SV) It is interesting that, in point 5 of the report's proposal, the absence of a general strategy for the creation of EU agencies is now being noted.
It is even more interesting to note that the majority in the European Parliament has always promoted the creation of new agencies and is only now realising that the overall picture has been lost.
We have therefore chosen to support this resolution.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that I have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the indictment and bringing to trial of Joseph Kony at the International Criminal Court.
in writing. - (DA) The Danish Members of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament have voted against the report on the Erasmus Mundus II programme.
That is not because we are opposed to the programme, but because the wording on funding is in danger of bringing about a situation in which Danish students have to pay for using the programme.
The Danish Members of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament have voted in favour of the own-initiative report on better regulation, but wish to emphasise that removal of administrative burdens can be a very political process.
in writing. - (EL) As part of the anti-grassroots policy of the Lisbon Strategy, the EU is using the Erasmus Mundus programme (2009-2013) for the bourgeois modernisation of universities in the Member States, in accordance with the demands of capital, so as to cause a 'brain drain' from third countries and step up the exploitation of workers, thereby increasing the profitability of European monopolies.
For these reasons, the parliamentary group of the Greek Communist Party voted against this legislative initiative.
Through cooperation between the various EU educational establishments, Erasmus Mundus II will improve the response to the growing demand for student mobility and will promote the quality of higher education in the EU and dialogue between different cultures.
in writing. - Madam President, I voted in favour of this report, and I hope that the extension of the Erasmus Mundus Programme to 2013 will continue to provide an important bridge between different cultures.
The benefits of this educational programme are evident - not only will the EU benefit from attracting intelligent, high-flying students from third countries, which will improve EU research and innovation, but our own students will also gain improved language skills and increase their employability, both at home and abroad.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to vote against this report from the Committee on Culture and Education.
We are not voting against the idea of the Erasmus Mundus programme as such, but as a result of some of the detailed proposals put forward by the Committee and some of those put forward by the Commission.
Each Member State has the right to issue visas, and we hope that they have a generous attitude when it comes to issuing visas to students involved in the Erasmus Mundus programme.
We also reject the idea of the EU providing financial support to an alumni association of students graduating from various Erasmus Mundus programmes.
The Erasmus Mundus programme involves cooperation and mobility in the higher education sector, aimed at promoting the European Union as a centre of excellence in learning around the world.
in writing. - (LT) Today we voted on the new generation of the Erasmus Mundus programme (2009-2013).
The current Erasmus Mundus programme was implemented in 2004 and more than 4000 citizens of the European Union and third countries have successfully used this programme.
Erasmus Mundus has proved to be a reliable measure in the field of higher education, particularly in the area of masters courses.
The goal of the new programme is to encourage higher education in Europe, to help offer more and better career opportunities to young people, and to implement more structured international cooperation between higher education institutions, ensuring greater mobility for students from the European Union and third countries.
Over the next 5 years, universities in Europe and third countries will be allocated more than EUR 950 million to join the programme and offer grants.
in writing. - (FR) The objective of encouraging economic immigration on a huge scale, already set out on 11 January 2005 by the European Commission in its 'Green Paper on an EU approach to managing economic migration' is more topical than ever, given this report.
No fewer than EUR 950 million have been appropriated to the Erasmus Mundus II programme for the period 2009-2013.
That is some EUR 654 million more than the amount appropriated to the first version of the programme.
in writing. - (DE) The Erasmus Mundus II programme is similar to the Erasmus exchange programme for European students, but is aimed primarily at exchanges with third countries.
The Erasmus Mundus programme has already played an important role in the contemporary education of young people and adults.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted in favour of Mrs De Sarnez's report on the Erasmus Mundus programme (2009-2013).
Young people are our future, and I say that not simply because it is a fitting expression: the Erasmus Mundus programme is built on an ethos of excellence and the promotion of intercultural integration, through cooperation with third countries, in order that new generations can work towards a better world.
I applaud this initiative, and I would also like to draw attention to Mrs De Sarnez's proposal that the learning of at least two foreign languages should be made a priority: languages are in fact the primary vehicle of cultural integration.
At the same time, Erasmus Mundus II should contribute to the sustainable development of higher education in Europe and in third countries, whereby the Commission should make every effort to prevent brain drain.
The assessment of Erasmus Mundus should also demonstrate that access to the Erasmus Mundus courses has improved for vulnerable groups.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on genetically modified micro-organisms (recast), and this on the basis of the report by Mr Szajer.
In this particular case, we are proceeding with revision of the directive of 1990 and of the laws and regulations that were changed four times, in 1994, 1998, 2001 and 2003.
It is definitely the case that nowadays mankind would have been worse off and more strife-torn without the discoveries made by Mendel, followed by those of Morgan, Crick and Watson.
in writing. - (GA) Ninety per cent of businesses in Ireland are small and medium-sized enterprises, as is the case throughout the European Union.
in writing. - (PL) Intrastat is a single common system for European countries.
It is a flexible system and therefore allows for account to be taken of specific needs and solutions pertaining to individual Member States of the European Union.
Another important point is that both the Intrastat system and the international trade statistical system are based on the recommendations for an international trade in goods statistical system developed by the UN's Statistical Division.
The Member States should make every effort to modernise and improve this system.
in writing. - Malta is the only state in the EU where divorce is not possible.
Malta, however, allowed the registration of a divorce obtained elsewhere provided the person was either a national or domiciled in the country where the divorce was given.
By virtue of Brussels II (Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003), a person can now obtain a divorce if he is a national of any Member State and has been habitually living there for six months.
The issue is whether divorce should form a specific part of our legal system even when these special circumstances do not apply.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the legislative resolution approving, subject to amendments, the proposal for a Council regulation amending the regulation of 2003 as regards jurisdiction and introducing rules concerning applicable law in matrimonial matters, and this on the basis of the report by Mrs Gebhardt.
Faced with the increased mobility of citizens within the European Union resulting in an increase in the number of 'international' couples, that is, couples in which the spouses are of different nationalities or reside in different Member States or in a Member State of which at least one of the two is not a national, and due to the high divorce rate in the European Union, it has become indispensable to legislate on the applicable law and competence in matrimonial affairs, which concern an ever increasing number of citizens each year.
It is necessary to go on pointing out that the treaties provide for progressively setting up a common area of freedom, security and justice along with measures aimed at furthering the compatibility of applicable rules in the Member States in the area of conflicts between laws and competence.
in writing. - (SV) Mrs Gebhardt's report clarifies the competence of national courts in connection with matrimonial cases within the EU as well as which law is to be considered appropriate.
The aim is to militate against the risk of one of the spouses trying to rush in first with petitioning for divorce in order for the case to be governed by the law of a particular country that would protect the interests of the spouse in question.
However, during the vote an oral amendment was approved, which in essence related to the legal principle of public order.
I am still of the opinion that the Swedish model should be preserved, but in order to encourage improvement, I have chosen instead to abstain.
However, I feel it is vital to ensure that each spouse is informed so that both are fully aware of the legal and social consequences resulting from choosing the applicable law.
The majority of Member States determine the applicable law in accordance with criteria of reattachment or of residence (lex loci).
To take away the freedom of spouses to choose a court and jurisdiction is an indication of the Commission's and, more especially, the rapporteur's, arrogant attitude towards current practice in all the Member States.
If Ireland were to implement this measure, this would allow EU nationals resident in Ireland to obtain a divorce in our courts on substantially different and less onerous grounds than that provided for in our Constitution as allowed by the referendum on divorce in 1995, i.e. 4 years separation of the parties.
in writing. - (FI) Madam President, I voted against the report on marriage by Mr Gebhardt, as I think it is important that Finnish laws should apply in Finnish courts in future in cases where the application of a law of a foreign country would conflict greatly with the basic premises of Finnish law.
Unfortunately, in the EU a high number of marriages between different nationalities are ending in divorce, and often the divorce process is complicated and takes a long time.
Families going through divorce proceedings will be able to either choose the court according to their place of residence or choose the law applied by the country of which they are a citizen.
At the time of voting I supported the amendments, which determined that the law applied in divorce cases must not conflict with the main principles of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
This is particularly important as we strive to avoid sex discrimination when trying and making decisions in divorce cases.
in writing. - (FI) I voted in favour of Mrs Gebhardt's report, because I think the Commission's proposal to standardise the rules on conflicts of law in divorces between international couples is an important one.
I think that the right of marriage partners to choose by mutual agreement the competent court and jurisdiction would also help them discover the content in both cases.
For this very reason, it is crucial that access to information on content and procedures should be made easier, as stated in Amendment 2.
I support Amendment 37, tabled by my group, in which the law of the Member State where the couple were joined in marriage must also be the one chosen.
This is logical and would make it even easier to discover the content of the law to be applied.
in writing. - I did not vote on this report as Ireland chose not to exercise its option to take part in the adoption and application of the proposed regulation and has not played an active role in negotiations at Council level.
in writing. - (SK) I welcome the report from my colleague Evelyne Gebhardt on the choice of jurisdiction, the recognition of judgments and the rules applying to the right to decide on matrimonial matters.
I firmly believe that it is important to create a clear, comprehensive and flexible legal framework in this sensitive area.
In the vote today I voted in favour of the introduction of the right to choose an appropriate court for divorce proceedings.
I supported a proposal under which a so-called international couple will be able to opt for jurisdiction in the place of their usual residence, or in the legal system of the country where they were married.
In a world which is shrinking at an ever increasing speed, regulations such as those already in place in civil law, in this case the free choice of applicable law and court for the parties, is important for their mobility.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted in favour of the work presented by Mrs Gebhardt, on applicable law in matrimonial matters.
in writing. - (SV) As someone in favour of the European Union I usually see the added value of European legislation.
It was therefore my intention to vote against the report.
The report voted on today aims to ensure access by both spouses to reliable information concerning divorce and separation proceedings and also the main issues in national and Community law.
The fisheries policy pursued by the EU is not, and has never been, based on well thought-out, joint decisions.
Fish stocks in Europe have declined dramatically in recent years, and very little is being done to change this situation.
Instead, the EU is offering aid in return for fishing rights in third world countries and will therefore deplete their seas of fish as well.
in writing. - (PT) Regulation (EC) No 639/2004 on the management of fishing fleets registered in the Community outermost regions provides for a number of derogations from the entry/exit regime established under Article 13 of Regulation (EC) No 2371/2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy.
However, the belated adoption of the Commission legal instrument enabling the Member States concerned to allocate state aid as well as limited shipyard capacity have made it impossible to meet the deadline relating to the entry into the fleet of fishing vessels benefiting from state aid for renovation up to 31 December 2008, as specified in Regulation (EC) No 639/2004.
In its report, the Committee on Fisheries defended the extension of deadlines for state aid for the renewal and registration of vessels, both in relation to the Regulation currently in force and in relation to the proposal presented by the European Commission, according to which the deadline should be extended only by one year, in other words until 31 December 2009.
I therefore voted in favour of the Guerreiro report.
in writing. - (PT) Support for the renewal and modernisation of the fishing fleets in the outermost regions is extremely important given the strategic nature of the fisheries sector in these regions.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted in favour of the report on the management of fishing fleets registered in the Community outermost regions, presented by Mr Guerreiro.
The Commission has always aligned itself in favour of European integration, whatever area is being discussed, and I share this view; but in this case we must eliminate any time limits, so that these regions have sufficient time for appropriate renewal and modernisation to better equip them to face competition within the internal market.
It is clear that continued support for this renewal is a sine qua non without which it will be impossible adequately to secure working and safety conditions and the conservation of fish stocks.
