Explanations of vote I voted in favour of the report by my German colleague, Mrs Niebler, on the proposal for a Council decision concerning the conclusion of the Agreement on Scientific and Technical Cooperation between the European Community and the State of Israel.
I voted in favour of the report by my Spanish colleague, Mr Galeote, on the proposal for a Council decision authorising France to apply a reduced rate of excise duty on 'traditional' rum produced in its overseas departments and repealing the Council Decision of 18 February 2002.
The proposed decision authorises France to apply a reduced rate of excise duty on a significant quota of 'traditional' rum produced in its overseas departments from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2012.
The Commission opportunely took into account that 40 000 jobs depend directly or indirectly on sugar cane cultivation, across a total of 5 500 farms.
The new tax system should also contribute to the maintenance of ten distilleries in Guadeloupe, nine in Martinique, three in Réunion and one in French Guiana, as well as 22 000 jobs directly connected with rum production.
in writing. - (SV) I voted against Gerardo Galeote's report today.
The damaging effects of alcohol are exactly the same when the alcohol is produced in Guadeloupe or Martinique as when it is produced somewhere else.
With regard to this matter, the facts date back to 27 March 2003, when the European Commission presented a proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council codifying Council Directive 93/32/EEC on passenger hand-holds on two-wheel motor vehicles.
The facts date back to 28 March 2003, when the European Commission presented a proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council codifying Council Directive 93/31/EEC on stands for two-wheel motor vehicles.
in writing. - (PT) We know that Community education and training statistics were developed in the past decade based on an informal agreement between the Member States as a response to the Council Resolution of 5 December 1994 on the promotion of education and training statistics in the European Union.
in writing. - (SK) I congratulate Nikolaos Sifunakis on his well-prepared report.
I voted unequivocally for the document submitted.
in writing. - (SV) The June List accepts the Commission's proposals and the European Parliament's amendments, provided the EU institutions respect the principle that education policy is a national matter.
On the other hand, all the EU Member States have signed the Council of Europe European Convention on Human Rights.
The EU charter represents the opposite of the 'leaner but keener' EU which is often mentioned in solemn speeches about subsidiarity.
in writing. - (PT) The conclusion of the process of negotiation between the EP and the Council on what is euphemistically called 'the development of the Community's railways' establishes the beginning of the liberalisation of international passenger services from 1 January 2010.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting for liberalisation of international transport as from 2010.
I am relieved that the European Parliament has argued against the automatic liberalisation of national rail transport in 2017.
in writing. - (PL) I am voting in favour of Georg Jarzembowski's report on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 91/440/EEC on the development of the Community's railways and Directive 2001/14/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying of charges for the use of railway infrastructure.
International passenger transport networks need to be opened up, and the European Commission should analyse the situation in the international passenger transport market with a view to taking a decision on further liberalisation which also covers national transport.
I have therefore chosen to vote against this report.
in writing. - (PT) The 'Third Railway Package', which aims principally to promote the liberalisation of international rail passenger services, contains a regulation on 'rail passengers' rights and obligations'.
In addition to stressing this first point - which is the central issue - we certainly consider that it is essential to safeguard passengers' rights, starting with the right to a public rail transport service provided by public undertakings in each country.
in writing. - I supported this report on the conciliation agreement on regulation of the rights and obligations of rail passengers.
In practical terms this means that, in the future, when there is a delay in cross-border transport of between 60 and 119 minutes, customers will be entitled to a refund of 25 % of the fare.
This does means more legal claims, but also greater certainty for rail customers.
It is now also up to the Member States to extend these rules to their national transport networks as soon as possible and not just after 15 years.
in writing. - This report on rail passengers' rights and obligations should be welcomed.
in writing. - (DE) Liberalisation of railways is not an end in itself; it must serve users and improve efficiency.
in writing. - I will be voting for the compromise agreed by our rapporteurs with the Council of Ministers because I believe it is a step forward for the railway industry throughout the European Union, and is the best deal available to Parliament at this time.
However, the slow pace with which the railway industry works is not only frustrating but also acts as a very effective brake on the kind of radical action that is required to galvanise railways in many of our Member States.
Finally, whilst I welcome the agreement that all railways should be fully accessible within 15 years, is it not a sad fact and an indictment on our railway industry that many people of reduced mobility do not have access to their railway in the 21st century?
This reform was drawn up in 2005 and was supposed to restore equilibrium in this market.
We cannot allow traditional sugar beet growing and sugar production in the European Union to be eliminated.
Although the Czech Republic produces sugar on a profitable basis, we still renounced 22% of the quota: this quota is in the hands of Western Europe.
In this regard, the reform is moving in the wrong direction.
That is why I voted against both reports by the rapporteur, Mrs Batzeli. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, when the vote was held today I voted, together with my colleagues in the Czech Civic Democratic Party, against the reports by the rapporteur, Mrs Batzeli, on the reform of the sugar regime.
So far this reform has damaged the Czech Republic: many sugar factories have closed and machinery and technology have lost their value.
The Czech Republic has already decreased its sugar production by more than 20%.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats voted against Parliament's report on the common organisation of the markets in the sugar sector.
As part of the reform of the common market organisation for sugar, the European Union wanted to help refineries adapt to the restructuring of the European sugar industry by granting EUR 150 million in 'transitional aid'.
in writing. - (SV) The June List supports a radical reform of the sugar markets in the EU with a view to liberalising them as quickly as possible and giving sugar-producing countries outside the EU the chance to compete on fair terms.
The amendments proposed by the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Affairs in this report are nothing more than a further attempt to impede the rate of reform as much as possible so that a protectionist trade policy can continue.
A classical example is the strenuous effort by a number of countries in Central and Eastern Europe to liquidate cooperative farms even though they are prosperous.
Most sugar factories have been acquired by foreign parties.
There has been more than a 20% decrease in sugar production in a country that had been exporting sugar for 150 years.
in writing. - I support the report on reform of the sugar sector, although there are some areas of concern with this report.
in writing. - I shall be voting in favour of the report that has been prepared by Ms Batzeli, because it is quite obvious that a restructuring of the sugar industry is required.
This report, whilst not perfect, nevertheless strikes a balance between the needs of the producers and the obvious need to reform this sector.
I am pleased therefore that the European Parliament is asking for a proposal on the heating and cooling sectors to be central to the future Framework Directive on renewable energies and I therefore voted in favour of the Thomsen Report.
in writing. - (PT) This is a very unbalanced report, despite some positive changes compared with previous reports, in particular in that it admits that fossil energy sources will inevitably run out in the near future - although it makes no mention of high oil prices - and in that it recognises the environmental and social harm associated with the recently deified agrofuels.
in writing. - I supported the Thomsen report and strongly believe that more effort should be directed towards the promotion of renewable energy.
I voted against setting a 10% target for plant fuels, and in favour of calls for a full impact assessment before considering any possible biofuels target.
in writing. - (CS) I adore amateur performances.
in writing. - (IT) I supported the Thomsen report, which confirms the need to obtain 20% of energy from renewable energy sources by 2020.
What can save Europe in the medium term is an energy mix which also includes energy sources that are not wholly renewable, such as nuclear power, which, like it or not, accounts for one third of Europe's electricity production. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 163 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (NL) In view of the fact that our party, the Dutch Socialist Party, attaches great importance to renewable energy sources and feels that action must be taken on a much wider scale in this respect, we have not voted against this report.
in writing. - (EL) The Commission's proposal to set a production target of 20% of total energy from renewable sources, which must be achieved by each Member State and must be included in national action plans, would have been acceptable were it aiming to meet people's needs, reduce energy dependency, save energy, protect the environment and confirm that energy products are a public asset and not a commodity.
in writing. - (DE) Even though the promotion of renewable energy is important, this should not be a pretext in relation to the EU Constitution for reducing even further the sovereign rights of Member States by the back door.
The nuclear research budget is still seven to eight times higher compared with funds for renewable energy sources and energy efficiency.
If the EU really is serious about renewable energy sources with its roadmap, it must provide a fairer distribution of subsidies here, but there is no indication of this in the report on which we are voting either.
in writing. - (PT) Increasing consumption is a sign of a generalised (if not always balanced) improvement in living conditions.
That is the main reason why I voted in favour of the report.
Like all our fellow Members, we see it as a way of protecting the environment, but also of reducing our energy dependence.
in writing. - Renewable energy in Europe is an important issue, which, in my mind, does not get the recognition it fully deserves.
in writing. - In my country, Ireland, residential energy accounted for about 25 % of the total final energy consumption.
Better insulation would cut the residential energy consumption down by up to 5 %.
in writing. - I can vote for this report and believe that its overall objectives are balanced against the back-drop of continued concern over energy security.
in writing. - (NL) The report on the roadmap for renewable energy is a clever piece of work.
