I simply want to say that coming from the United Kingdom - renowned for its fogs, not to say for its smogs - I can in no way criticise the climate of Strasbourg.
I had left my home at 6 a.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since we have had the historical dimension vividly presented to us this morning, I would like to start by referring to the immense efforts that the candidates for accession have put into completing the process of transformation.
I believe that there was in many of these countries a politically courageous attitude, with a willingness to have recourse to unpopular courses of action that were bound to bring about change in their political, economic and social systems.
Such measures would in any case have had to be implemented over wide areas, but they were also connected with membership of the European Union.
I believe that our own political work has something to gain from such courage and capacity for making an impact.
I would also like, at the same time, to take this opportunity to thank the parties to the negotiations - the Council, the Commission in particular and the candidate countries, which have, over the past few years, taken upon themselves an incalculable amount of work in order to slowly steer this endeavour to a positive outcome.
It must be clear to us, however, that there is still a range of things in this process that need to be put in order.
I agree with you that we still have much to do even after these things have been achieved by all parties.
It was this House that decided that enlargement should go ahead so that these countries might be able to take part in the 2004 European elections, and in doing so it set a date that the others have adopted.
There are a number of very tangible issues that will need to be addressed in the course of negotiations.
I hope that all the disputes surrounding the negotiations will be brought to an end and that the Commission and the Council will soon be able to explain in definite terms what is meant by the 'travel document light'.
I hope that the results of previous negotiations will serve as a basis on which everything will run smoothly.
I also wish to make clear that both the countries with which no conclusion is as yet in sight must be able to rely - if they complete the negotiations and fulfil the conditions - on us not discovering a new veto and a new alibi and shutting the door on them.
This should also serve to reassure such countries as Bulgaria and Romania.
It will be after Copenhagen that the public will realise that we are taking the first step with ten countries seriously, and that a wide-ranging discussion will ensue in the present Member States of the European Union as to how much further we should go.
It is for the avoidance of any misunderstanding that I tell you that, if Turkey fulfils these conditions, which at present include compliance with the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights, and if this forms an integral part of a political development in Turkey, with the armed forces no longer having a political role there, and the rule of law being established in full, then Turkey will have undergone a dramatic change, and we will then have to give sympathetic reconsideration to the possibility of Turkey acceding.
In 23 days' time in Copenhagen, we shall hopefully conclude the accession negotiations with 10 candidate countries, give impetus to the negotiations with Bulgaria and Romania and take a decision about the next phase of Turkey's candidacy.
We have carried out a trial run, and it emerged that having such a large Parliament with MEPs from 27 countries present here in Parliament is perfectly possible, as is the task of interpreting into 23 languages, as has been done.
Yesterday, a ministerial meeting was, for the first time, held in Brussels with the participation of all 25 Member States.
It took place directly before the ordinary meeting of the General Affairs Council, and what we decided was of course what we had discussed with the new Member States.
We agreed, for example, that the new countries should accede on 1 May 2004.
That will provide time for the ratification of the accession treaty and, at the same time, enable the new Member States to participate on an equal footing in the elections to the European Parliament.
The Copenhagen criteria have been the yardstick for measuring the countries' political and economic reforms.
As a reaction to the Commission's progress reports, the candidate countries have clearly intimated that they will step up their efforts in those areas pointed out by the Commission, and these efforts will be supported with EU funds.
The Brussels European Council took a number of important decisions concerning the outstanding financial issues.
Intense negotiations are currently being conducted with the candidate countries on these matters.
The concluding of the negotiations in Copenhagen in 23 days' time will be an incredible breakthrough.
Parliament will have to give its consent before the treaty can be signed, and Parliament's statement to the effect that it wishes to approve the treaty as quickly as possible merely illustrates once again Parliament's role as a driving force for rapid enlargement.
The Copenhagen European Council will not just concern itself with the 10 countries concerned.
In Brussels, clear support was expressed for these countries' efforts to achieve membership by 2007.
In response to the conclusions from Brussels, the Copenhagen European Council will have to make decisions concerning detailed timetables, including schedules and increased pre-accession aid, so that the accession process involving these countries can be taken forward.
The decisions taken in Copenhagen will, then, be designed to strengthen Bulgaria's and Romania's membership prospects.
Developments in Turkey over the last year show that the decision taken in Helsinki in 1999, when Turkey was accorded the status of a candidate country, was a correct one.
In view of the Seville conclusions, the Copenhagen European Council will be the key moment in the development of relations between the EU and Turkey.
That is why it is important to keep all the doors open in the run-up to the decision to be taken in 23 days' time in Copenhagen.
Parliament has been involved in establishing the background against which the whole of the enlargement debate will take place.
We must ensure that this is maintained by creating the framework for a thorough and sober debate on enlargement, both in our own countries and in the new Member States.
I want to include in this expression of gratitude Parliament as a whole and in particular its President, Pat Cox.
Only one single hurdle still lies before us, and that is agreement on the final negotiation package.
There will be no package of proposals applying to all of them, but we will be meeting each country halfway and attempting to give sufficient attention to those of each country's problems that are still on the table.
There is the issue of the pressure that the financial package as a whole will put on the candidate countries' budgets in 2004, 2005 and 2006.
We are trying to find a way forward here which will enable us to avoid problems of this sort with budgets.
When we point out that the Berlin framework has to be strictly adhered to and that the decisions taken in Brussels cannot be altered either, it follows that there is a certain amount of room for manoeuvre.
I want to use these two examples to demonstrate that we are right to say that what is on the table is not an offer that can only be either accepted in its entirety or rejected.
We will again report in detail on the results of these efforts.
Now that 1 May 2004 has been fixed as the date for the accessions, this final report will be put before the Council and Parliament on 1 November, and quite conceivably on 31 October 2003, thus creating another opportunity for insisting that the commitments they have made should actually be met.
We are now setting benchmarks both in the short and medium terms, as well as those with reference to the date of accession, which each country should have reached by a specific point in time in order that accession, planned for 2007, can go ahead.
After that, that is to say, post-Copenhagen - as was said in this House this morning - the parliaments will have their moment, when the political decision-making process is set in motion.
I would now like to say something more about Turkey, an issue that will also have a part to play next year.
The Commission continues to insist on all the candidates being treated equally, which means that we can only talk in terms of a date for opening negotiations when the political criteria have indeed been fulfilled, which they very definitely have not been so far.
Related to that is the Cyprus question, on which I would like to say something briefly; here, too, I think that the Helsinki strategy is proving to be the right one.
The solution we want is of course accession on the basis of fundamental agreement on the package proposed by Kofi Annan, but it goes without saying that it would also be possible to come to the necessary decisions in Copenhagen and then continue with the political process that is meant to bring about a peaceful solution in Cyprus.
That leaves us with a second difficulty: what is asked of us is a consequence of the principle of two zones and two communities on which the proposal is founded.
The important thing is that we should not be giving anyone the opportunity to use reference to Community law as a way of evading responsibility for the political decision that now has to be taken.
We are also getting to the point where we simply have to say that these concerns and aspirations are justified, and that, politically speaking, there will be no other way of explaining to people why joining the EU is the right thing for them to do.
I consider the work done by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, which is shortly to be completed, to be a valuable and important help in the final stage of these negotiations, and I would like to give voice to the hope that we will succeed, with the head of steam we are building up, in speeding up the train on the final stretch of its journey and enabling it to arrive punctually at the terminus in Copenhagen. (Applause) - rapporteur. (FR) Mr President, after 28 years of conflict and occupation, there is now a glimmer of hope for the peaceful reunification of Cyprus.
If so, the reunified and reconciled island of Cyprus will be able to join the European Union.
It could have been destroyed, for example, by the threat from the Turkish Government, which insists that, even after a political solution has been found, Cyprus could not join the European Union before Turkey.
In the same vein, I would also like the President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner Verheugen to reiterate to Parliament that a possible failure of the constitutional referendum in one of the two parts of the island will not jeopardise Cyprus's accession to the European Union.
I believe that this text respects the dignity of all of them, but also respects the dignity of all those who live in the Czech Republic and in the European Union today, of all those who are alive, but had nothing personally to do with these events and who are looking forward, to whom it is the present and the future that matter.
It appears to me, however, that Estonia's economic structure has in the meantime become healthier than in many other candidate countries.
If we had done that in the European Union, we would surely show particular concern for those who survived such drastic treatment.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, twelve years ago, the extraordinary event symbolised by the fall of the Berlin Wall, which separated two political blocs, but which also divided a people, to some extent represented a pioneering step in the process of European enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe.
It was following this reunification that the European Council, meeting in Copenhagen, in 1993, decided to integrate into the European Union the associated States of Central and Eastern Europe that wished to join.
The Copenhagen European Council made it clear that the accession of these countries would depend on their fulfilment of the obligations inherent in their participation in the Union.
In addition to German reunification, we cannot ignore two other political events that, although lacking the same symbolic power, have taken on particular importance in the development of the next steps in this process of European reunification.
I am referring, first of all, to the Nice Summit, at which the European Heads of State and Government undertook to reform the Community institutions, in the aim of ensuring that these are adapted to a Europe that is enlarged by a further twelve countries.
We are all aware that failure in this area would leave the process of enlargement compromised for many years to come.
Whatever opinion we may have about the institutional solutions that were reached, the fact is that since Nice the candidate countries have at least been aware of their relative positions in the Union and of what they can expect in the future.
In their conclusions, Europe's leaders categorically asserted that the process of enlargement was irreversible, having for the first time set a deadline - the end of 2002 - for closing negotiations with the candidate countries that are ready at that time, with the stated aim of these countries being able to participate as Members in the 2004 elections to the European Parliament.
Today, as 2002 draws to a close and with the European Parliament having met this morning for the first time in plenary sitting with the representatives of all the candidate countries, our duty, and also our desire, is to applaud the extraordinary efforts that these countries have made to adapt their political, economic, social and judicial structures to the model of the European Union, efforts which, above all, have made this moment a victory that belongs to them and which must be acknowledged.
As one Hungarian Member stated this morning, we can only regret the fact that the Communist dictatorship that subjugated these countries for more than forty years prevented them from participating in the marvellous adventure of European integration from the very beginning.
It is, therefore, to be expected that questions are raised and that fears are expressed, for example, with regard to regional cohesion policies being less effective or with regard to difficulties of funding structural policies in the economic and social spheres.
Mr President, one of the countries that has distinguished itself in its efforts to fall into line with the European Union, in the aim of joining it, is Hungary, whose progress and current situation I have sought to monitor as rapporteur for this Parliament.
As expected, the Commission's last periodic report on Hungary concluded that, given the progress made by the date of its publication, this country would be in a position to conclude negotiations by the end of the year and to assume the obligations arising from accession in accordance with the timetable that had been set.
The Hungarian economy still has one of the best performances in the region, and is characterised by one of the highest growth rates in Europe, the lowest rate of inflation seen in the last ten years, a relatively low unemployment rate, and a steady increase in trade with the European Union.
In the resolutions adopted in the last two years, Parliament has drafted a number of recommendations, specifically intended to encourage the pursuit of reforms in the field of integrating the Roma minority, to strengthen social dialogue and to adopt a media law, or even with regard to observing the rules that govern the public markets.
I am convinced that a core indicator of integration - and, moreover, for everyone - is adherence to the basic rules of democracy, protection of minorities and respect for human rights.
What this means for Latvia is that, even after its accession, it must endeavour to integrate the Russian minority and not let up in its efforts on the financial front, although the new government will find it hard to keep taking financial decisions of this sort.
I believe it to be important that rural and regional development should be a key focus of attention.
This is a very important point, and I have to say that Brussels simply made the wrong choice here.
All of us, nations, governments, parliaments, and we here in the European Parliament, are starting and writing a new chapter, with vision and realism, with hope and firmness.
And every country, every nation, must feel equal and secure within this development.
In this sense, Lithuania - for which I am acting as rapporteur - must not feel, when it comes to the final arrangements for Kaliningrad, that it has been treated differently, as far as its sovereignty is concerned, from the other Member States of the European Union.
The political determination of the Union, which must not tolerate any conceptions which might allow third parties to intervene in Union's activities, is being judged in Cyprus, the most institutionally and economically advanced of the candidate countries.
That being so, the integration of Cyprus in the European Union is a foregone conclusion, irrespective of progress made in resolving the political problem.
Kemal Ataturk, who planned a modern state for the Turkish people, will be vindicated once all the institutional reforms have been completed and implemented, once the military leadership obeys and executes the decisions taken by the democratic political leadership in Turkey.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, with the permission of the Members of this House, I would like to use this speech to make a statement relating to my twin roles, as rapporteur for Malta, and also as co-chairman of the Joint Committee on the Czech Republic.
For Austria in particular, a country in the heart of Europe, this means that, following Europe's division by the consequences of the Second World War, a corner has been rounded on the way to a better, more economically and socially stable Europe with an added value in terms of security policy.
We must not, of course, allow the historical perspective to distract our attention from the problems of today.
There must of course be safety in the nuclear field, and so I welcome the expectation expressed in the report on the Czech Republic that the bilateral undertakings negotiated by the European Commission with regard to Temelin will be adhered to in full, and that, furthermore, power stations such as Ignalina and Koslodui, with parts of Bohunice, must be closed down.
If enlargement were to fail, the Austrian economy would lose EUR 270 million per annum.
Enlargement of the EU is where our future lies.
There are problems from the past that need to be dealt with, and it is in this sense that the additional clause proposed by Jürgen Schroedter - who is the rapporteur on the Czech Republic - on the subject of the Bene?
By giving broad-based support to this amendment, Parliament would be sending out a positive message.
Let me now turn to my own report on Malta.
Malta is a small island state, and there is no doubt that it is in the European Union that its future lies.
Malta also has a profoundly European heritage.
Austria has a particular interest in Malta because thousands of our holidaymakers go there every year and because we have a share in the privatised airport.
The report on Poland emerged from the vote in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy in exactly the form I would have wished, in that all the amendments I supported were adopted and all those to which I was opposed were rejected.
I have to say that, throughout my work as rapporteur for Poland, I have constantly borne in mind something which Pope John Paul II said - and I am pleased to be able to mention his name here; I have not heard it spoken this morning despite the fact that he has been at the forefront of European reunification - something he said during an interview he granted me.
I would like to see more conviction on the part of the Polish Members of the European Parliament - I have to say that we heard some Polish speakers this morning who were not representative - and I would like to see them share with us that strength, that drive which led the Poles to pull down walls, to form Solidarnosc and to pave the way for the fall of communism, which was a decisive factor in the building of our common future. (Applause) I am afraid I must remind our guests that the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure do not allow those sitting in the gallery to show either agreement or disagreement with what is being said.
Mr President, today, I will be devoting my entire speech to Slovakia, the country for which I am rapporteur on behalf of Parliament.
Slovakia has reached the final leg of the negotiations on EU membership, which merits congratulations in view of the fact that, four years ago, that country was still in political isolation.
According to opinion polls, support for the EU remains strong.
We still, of course, await the outcome of the Copenhagen Summit, but I am convinced that Slovakia will be capable of bringing the negotiations to a successful end.
Slovakia's new government has announced initiatives in this connection, and we are awaiting the reports with interest and some trepidation.
In the same framework of a transparent society and transparent government, it is important that they should continue to reform the judiciary and the structure around it.
The implementation of policy costs time and money.
We cannot ask more from new Member States than from the current Member States.
Mr President, new cultures, including the culture of Slovenia - the country for which I am the rapporteur - will add value to and, at the same time, bring new security for both themselves and the European family as a whole.
The countries bordering on the Mediterranean, such as Italy, which are the gateway to Central Europe, have played a major role in the process.
The situation was therefore similar to that of a number of other candidate countries but less complex.
At the time when much criticism was being expressed a number of years ago, it was always difficult to find any major sins or shortcomings in Slovenia which were not explained by the nature of daily life or by the number of people passing through the country.
A paragraph has been included in the report which mentions combating fraud and corruption and combating drug trafficking.
Moreover, out of the 102 countries in which the level of corruption has been recorded, Slovenia ranks only twenty-seventh and, what is more, organised a conference on corruption in 2002.
It therefore cannot be said that nothing is being done in this area.
Mr President, the process of enlargement is one that we all broadly welcome.
In particular I am thinking of the need for reform of the common agricultural policy and the Commission's financial management.
I also hope that, once the candidates have overcome their first flush of unquestioning enthusiasm for the European Union, they will begin to adopt a more sceptical attitude to many aspects of the European Union project.
After all, since most of them have rejected the ghastly communist experiment that so distorted and corrupted their countries for the past 50 years, I hope they would wish to oppose inappropriate intrusion on their national sovereignty and the tide of leftist political correctness that is too often generated by European Union institutions.
I recognise the enormous progress that Bulgaria has made in economic, political and social reform in recent years.
Its ambition to join the European Union by 2007 is realistic and we should say so.
Bulgaria has made great strides in recent years.
I must mention the Kozlodvy nuclear power plant and in particular the closure dates for units 3 and 4.
Strong opinions have been voiced on this issue and unfortunately it has become a symbolic argument, with people digging in on both sides.
I therefore wish profoundly to retain that target date in Parliament's report.
Mr President, Turkey enjoys special status as a candidate country.
We have very long-standing relations with Turkey, not only in the EU as a candidate or imminent candidate, but also mainly as a NATO member.
In former times when we were still an economic community, we never really thought about it in this way.
I also believe it to be of crucial importance for us to keep saying to Turkey that our opinion, as adopted in Helsinki, is as follows: we cannot start membership negotiations until you have met the political criteria of Copenhagen.
This is, in my view, a clear and transparent stance, which we must sustain at all costs.
Should the Council decide on this anyway, either directly or indirectly, it would be sending the message that the political criteria are not that important to it.
Surely Mr Haarder, very honourable President-in-Office of the Council, you will not put us through something as radical as that.
If the EU's character were irrelevant, the Council could wonder why we should continue to hold talks of this nature.
It damages the interests of the European Union and those of the Turkish citizen, and - very importantly - it also undermines the current support base for Turkey's accession among the European people.
If the accession of a candidate country has no support base among its population, God only knows what could happen, and this is why the process should be very carefully monitored in the case of Turkey too.
The issue of the rule of law and democracy has not appeared to be so difficult in any of the candidate countries.
Commissioner Verheugen stated a moment ago that Helsinki in particular, with the statement that Turkey is now truly a candidate country, has done so much to get Turkey to take the necessary steps.
We naturally witnessed all of this, and we appreciate that those steps were important for relations in Turkey, but they did not go far enough for us.
I think what the Romanians did is great, and I hope that Turkey too, in this respect, will opt for this solution out of conviction.
I am open to the wish that Turkey should be given a positive sign, and that is why I warmly support the paragraph tabled by the Socialists on enlargement and cooperation in various sectors.
However, it could be some time before the next stage, namely that of negotiations and membership, is reached.
This is why I also endorse the text of the Ferber amendment, which states that some arrangement should be in place and that we will need to agree with each other on whether we need to look for an interim solution in this respect.
We are then, to take one example, talking in terms of a Budget framework with some EUR 15 billion of expenditure in 2006, but, on the other hand - as we so often forget - we will have our own resources, amounting to some EUR 5 billion, which the new Member States will already have contributed to the European Union's Budget.
Since then, the Council, at its Brussels Summit, has also adopted parts of this position taken by Parliament, examples being the principle of progressive integration for direct payments to agriculture, the clarification that, after enlargement, none of the new Member States should become net contributors, and a ruling intended to prevent a country from being in a worse financial position after accession than it was immediately before it.
It is very important to me that the necessary adjustment of the Financial Perspective is to be made on the basis of Article 25 of the Interinstitutional Agreement and on the proposal of the Commission jointly - that is what it says - jointly with the Council and Parliament and by the appropriate majorities.
For example, Mr President-in-Office, I would expect it to be made clear in the Budget conciliation that Parliament is continually to be supplied with comprehensive information on the progress of the negotiations, and I would expect a trialogue on the subject to achieve agreement on how we are to move the Financial Perspective's adjustment procedure forward over the coming months.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is marked by a good sense of community and by confidence in Europe's future.
This makes it necessary to use all available measures that might help to prevent it, and to step up the social dialogue in the candidate countries.
We talk a great deal, and on many occasions, about the social dimension of Europe, but deliberately forget to point out that legislation on social affairs is just as important a constituent part of the acquis as are, for example, the provisions on competition.
In the time that remains to us before the candidate countries accede, much remains to be done in the areas of employment policy, economic policy and social policy.
I wish to conclude by emphasising that, in any case, the candidate countries deserve the greatest respect for the efforts they have made to date with accession to the EU in mind.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and dear parliamentary colleague, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, enlargement is an historical and moral need and a unique opportunity to reconcile this continent with itself.
And in terms of this reflection, I believe the work of the European Convention is of fundamental importance and I believe we must seek a suitable formula for involving - as has been requested this morning - the representatives of the candidate countries in the work of the Intergovernmental Conference.
With regard to the short term, I am convinced that, thanks to the efforts of the European Commission, of the Member States and of the candidate countries, within a few weeks, in Copenhagen, we will be able to reach a reasonable and fair agreement.
I also believe that we will be able, on the basis of equal, and therefore non-discriminatory, conditions for all, to mark the way, by means of the pre-accession strategies which have been expressed here this morning and by concluding the negotiations under way.
Nevertheless, Mr President, I believe it is important that we do not get bogged down in the immediate and the present.
And, in this historic present we are living through, the European Union is taking shape as one of its main protagonists.
Today it is presented as an economic, financial and industrial power, but it has a great and essential need to affirm its presence on the international stage and to provide itself with a security and defence policy which will allow us to confront the new types of threat, especially following the attacks of 11 September.
Mr President, we must overcome the challenges involved in enlargement, we must take advantage of all potential and all synergy, we must build a unified political and economic area which will bring together more than 500 million people, of which, in the initial phase, 300 will use the same currency.
We have carried on the debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, and I also want to thank that committee's chairman, not only for his report but also for all the cooperation that was involved.
It is my belief that all groups and all the political forces on the committee did their best to accompany this process in a critical frame of mind and have helped to make it, and enlargement, a success.
I have two specific points that I wish to address in addition to what my fellow-Members have said about the individual countries and also about the general aspect, which was apposite and intelligent.
These have to do with two very real problems.
It is my belief that the European Union ought, quite independently of this - I am glad that I can already expect something of you, Commissioner - to decide this question in accordance with the Helsinki accords, and Cyprus should have its say on the subject.
The second issue has to do with Turkey.
The Copenhagen political criteria have still not been fulfilled, despite Turkey's great efforts in that direction, the great successes it has had and the great progress it has made.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen and future fellow MEPs up in the public gallery, this is an historic day, a kind of preliminary celebration before the big celebration we are soon to hold together.
It is a celebration that will mark the end of the long journey we have made together with the goal of jointly achieving the unification of Europe.
The European Parliament's combined idea and vision has been the fact that it is convinced of the advantages of developing European cooperation together.
It is a natural follow-on from the fall of the Berlin Wall and the breakthrough for democracy, freedom and the market economy in Eastern and Central Europe.
It is only by acting together that we can defend and stand up for our common values and ambitions: freedom, democracy, human rights and a functioning market with growth and prosperity in a Europe that gives the citizen pride of place.
The major challenges to come - the environmental problems, cross-border crime, the role of Europe in the world and our responsibility for a more just world order - also demand joint efforts, such as the work on reforming the European institutions so that they become more democratic and efficient.
I also want to appeal for a clear and positive signal to be given to Turkey.
The new government is worth much encouragement and support on our part.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it does not need to be repeated that this is an historic day, for this House at any rate.
What is apparent to me from a reading of European history is that this continent has never actually been united.
Mr President, let us hope that Mr Giscard d'Estaing spawns as much discussion with his Convention proposal as with his remarks about the undesirability of Turkey becoming a member.
All of a sudden, everyone is worked up about the question of whether it has been right or wrong to hold out to Turkey the prospect of membership.
If the new Turkish Government were to seize the opportunities of solving the conflict in Cyprus, if that government were at long last to translate the reforms already decided upon into practice, if, in addition, that government wanted to carry out fresh reforms, as it announced this weekend, with zero tolerance towards incidents of torture, if the self-same government were to release prisoners, including the Sakharov Prize winner Lela Zana ?
This also means that the rapprochement between Turkey and the EU cannot be unilateral.
As far as I am concerned, this means that serious thought should be given in Copenhagen to setting a so-called review date, namely a date, say in a year's time, on which we will reconsider whether Turkey meets all the conditions and all the political criteria and then, if this finding is positive, to have the courage to set a date for negotiations in the future.
The EU Convention must remember that many candidate countries are due to hold referenda on EU accession.
We succeeded in part the second time round in explaining the Treaty, but the lack of understanding of EU issues is still prevalent.
However, some people at the EU Convention are rushing ahead with extensive reform in all matters connected with the day-to-day operation of the Union.
We are presenting conflicting messages and proposals to the people of the candidate countries.
In fact I would go further and say that the EU Convention runs the risk of blurring the enlargement process.
The enlargement negotiations are broken up into 38 different chapters.
We all know that the accession of ten new countries is not an easy task.
The pace of reform is the main issue.
Mr President, there is a great deal of commotion surrounding enlargement.
As far as EU-fähigkeit of the new Member States is concerned, I can be brief: the Brok report offers a good insight into any remaining doubts on the part of the EU.
However, it appears clear to me that the EU should resist this pressure for the very good reason that Turkey is a country that does not fit into the EU.
In addition, Turkey has made some progress as a constitutional state, but not enough by a long chalk.
The EU can offer Turkey closer cooperation in various areas, but the candidate status was a mistake that should, ideally, be put right.
The discrepancies between the Member States in this area are simply too great.
Moreover, this area has a lot to do with our sense of identity, which only increases the potential for tension among Member States.
The countries in Europe should be vigilant about nationalism.
This strikes me as even more harmful than traditional nationalism.
There are a dozen Caucasian and Balkan countries which are not even on the list of candidate countries, whose situation is not even on a par with that of Turkey, and they are countries which the European Union needs, just as it needs Turkey, not least in order to prevent the development of any tendencies towards fundamentalism, as a number of Members have said today.
We have heard the reports on each of the candidate countries presented, but I feel that it would have been only right and proper to give these ten countries which are about to join the Union a report on the current situation of each of the current 15 Member States.
We are talking about the Europe of democracies, but it may be that we should also be talking about the Europe of democracy.
Mr President, as speakers have already said, this has been an historic day for the current process of enlargement.
Some speakers have raised the question of whether Valéry Giscard d'Estaing's comments about Turkey were outdated, whether this was the wrong message at the wrong time and whether, if Turkey should become a member, that would really be the end of Europe as we know it.
He is right to raise this issue, because once we say yes definitively to Turkey and give it a date, how can we say no to Ukraine, Belarus and other countries which probably have more of their landmass within Europe than Turkey does?
This question will be examined at the NATO summit on enlargement later this week in Prague.
The Helsinki Council made Turkey an official candidate country.
To set a date now, or even to set a date for a date, is premature.
It is easier for everyone to say yes rather than no, but at this stage it seems that no member of the European Council wishes to say yes to Turkey, but none wishes to say no either.
Let us be clear in our thinking and let us have a clear strategy so that we can assure Europe's citizens that in ten years' time they will have a stable, prosperous and effective European Union.
It was also a good opportunity to set before them the fact that we too have a public to whom we have to explain the results of the negotiations and whom we have to win over.
If we can convince both sides of this, then we can really build a new future.
Mr Elles, I consider it a dangerous initiative at this stage to do as one amendment proposes and put Turkey's chair outside the door and talk only in terms of a special relationship.
Thankfully the proposals of Kofi Annan seem to be a sound constitutional basis for such a reconciliation.
Turkey has a right to know what the time frame is for its relations with the European Union.
Bulgaria and Romania have the same right.
Commissioner and Mr President-in-Office, the countries in the black hole in the Balkans have the same right and we say nothing about them, despite the fact that, whichever way you look at it, they are even closer, they are right at the centre of the continent of Europe.
No solution can be advocated or accepted which permanently deviates from the acquis communautaire.
Transitional arrangements are one thing, and every country has experienced them at some point during enlargement, but they apply for a specific period of time and they have an expiry date.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, although the start of the peaceful reunification of Europe was symbolised by the fall of the Berlin Wall, we now know from yesterday's Foreign Affairs Council meeting that it is on 1 May 2004 that the EU will enlarge towards the first ten candidate countries.
I shall simply point out that the official unemployment rate in a country such as Poland stands at 17% and that, in the year 2000, Poland's per capita GDP was equivalent to just 39% of the Community average.
Therefore, with regard to the transition process, I am hearing many of my fellow Members stress - and they are certainly right to do so - all the conditions that the candidate countries must still fulfil.
For my part, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to ask you a very direct and very specific question about what the Council will do in response to the requests made last Friday in Warsaw by the governments of the ten candidate countries.
I admit that I am no expert in this area, but I believe that their demands are perfectly legitimate: a financial package to generate macro-economic stability, a net financial situation which must be improved not just for 2004, but for 2004 to 2006 as well and, lastly, the full use of the Berlin budgetary facility.
Fearing, therefore, that I did indeed hear the Danish Prime Minister say this morning that he was not intending to renege on the positions adopted at the Brussels European Council, I would like to know exactly if, in response to the legitimate demands of the ten candidate country governments, you are going to make a better offer than the one made in Brussels, or if you are going to stick with what was decided at that European Council.
Mr President, I welcome the opportunity to participate in this historic debate and I look forward to the day, which is now just around the corner, when the representatives of each of the candidate countries will exercise their full rights as Members of this House and in each of the institutions of the European Union.
The conclusions of the recent Brussels European Council clearly rule out any negotiation on the Berlin Agreement and Agenda 2000.
Where equal treatment is not possible, on the display screens for example, a long-established consistent approach is used whereby we would at least use the language of the country in which we are sitting, so here in Strasbourg, we would use French.
It must be clearly understood that they are European countries even if they do not join the European Union: we could even say that, if they do not join, they will without doubt be even more European than if they do.
My dear friends of the East, you are giving up your souls, your heritage, your cultures, your freedoms and, ultimately, your very interests and nothing is more telling, at the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, than the linguistic aspect that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech.
Thank you Mr Coûteaux.
Mr President, on behalf of my colleagues from the MPF delegation, I would like to extend a warm welcome to the representatives of the States that will soon be joining the Union, and in doing so, rejoining their natural family, the great European family from which they were separated by Communism.
Furthermore, this morning again, we heard from those who believe that, after enlargement, we will need a tighter central locking system in order to respond to the greater diversity.
We would rather invent a new, diverse, more flexible Europe where there is more freedom and that is based on a respect for the national democracies.
This morning, we heard a representative from Lithuania express concern about what would happen to Lithuania's decision-making freedom when it would be represented by eight MEPs in a European Parliament with 732 members.
This is a legitimate question that many countries, even the largest, should ask themselves.
The only way to prevent democracy being diluted in the future, to avoid the impression of no longer controlling anything, is to increase the involvement of the national parliaments in the European decision-making process by giving them a genuine right to say 'yes' or 'no' to their countries taking part in this or that decision.
In order to achieve this more free and more democratic Europe, Mr President, those who value the freedom of their countries, those who value their national democracy, and therefore those who value the true Europe should unite to defend their values.
I hope that, in the Europe of the future, they will be able to continue to speak their languages, just as we want to continue to speak ours.
I am firmly of the opinion that we must set a date before the end of 2003 for the start of Turkey's accession process.
If we were to close the doors to this country, which did a great deal to protect Europe during the Cold War, that would be an error that would ultimately encourage the growth of Islamic fundamentalism.
Turkish democracy has made a great deal of progress - with the abolition of the death penalty, for instance - although a great deal certainly still remains to be done.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the enlargement of Europe brings us face to face with the historic question: we talk of enlarging Europe, but what exactly do we mean by Europe?
The European Union is, I think, a reinstatement of an historical reality which goes back three thousand years and which needs a new basis if it is to continue working.
And all those who played a part during those three thousand years will, where they still exist, naturally have a place in modern-day Europe.
But of course the criteria cannot be geographical.
Turkey is, without question, part of our history.
The recent elections were another example of the Turkish Republic showing willing and demonstrated that a real, fundamental change of government is possible.
If, as it has been asked to do in European Parliament resolutions, Turkey really wants to help resolve the Cyprus problem on the basis of the UN Secretary-General's most recent plan, then it will start backing off in its foreign policy as well.
This will bring about a peaceful revolution in this area, which will be especially valuable to Turkey, which has more need than anyone to carve out a democratic future for itself at last.
I still regret that the necessary reform has been postponed to 2007.
I think that we as Parliament should therefore continue to support Commissioner Fischler in his endeavours to achieve swift and thorough reforms in agricultural policy, with the subsidies being redirected to rural development and to the new Member States.
Mr President, the extraordinary debate has made it even more apparent how diverse are both the viewpoints on the process of enlarging the European Union and also the problems of its future form.
Some things are seen as the report depicts them, but many get more critical treatment than they do in the report.
Commissioner Verheugen has understandable complexes if he expects MEPs to digest 6 000 pages of text in order to confirm accession.
Mr President, this morning, I think that we indeed witnessed an historic moment, as all my fellow Members have said, when we welcomed our counterparts from the candidate States.
As a native Catalan, it is my hope that, in the future, my language, which is spoken by 10 million European citizens, may also be recognised in this Chamber.
I wanted to make this comment whilst we are examining the Brok report.
With regard to the aforementioned report, one of the Copenhagen criteria stipulates that the Member States must respect minorities and national minorities in particular, and highlights some of the progress which has been made by the candidate states.
For example, I know that in some of the candidate States, administrative cuts have been implemented in such a way as to dilute the national minorities, whereas in other candidate countries, conditions are being imposed with regard to the formation of political parties in such a way that minorities cannot form one.
For example, could a State which today refuses to ratify the European Charter of Linguistic Rights join Europe?
Mr President, we have not been sparing in our criticism of enlargement and we have often expressed concern, including in the Chamber of the European Parliament, at the problems it poses for the labour market - with the risk that it could upset the balance of the system of small and medium-sized businesses in Padania with very dangerous consequences - and at the fears, which we see properly addressed in the Brok report, that the inadequate legislation and the political traditions of some of these countries may mean that the necessary facilities are not in place or there are insufficient facilities to provide effective protection against the expansion of financial and Mafia crime.
We do, however, want to take this opportunity to welcome and extend a brotherly hand to the free peoples who succeeded in preserving their cultural identity even through the terrible years of Communist oppression, who are joining Europe, just as we did ourselves, certainly not in order to accept, after so many years of dictatorship, the diktats of the standardisation imposed by globalisation or of political correctness, or to be subjected to centralism once again.
We are counting on them to help us in these battles, to help us preserve the Christian nature of the Europe of the peoples and regions which we are trying to create.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - I should also have been pleased to greet the Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should just like to concentrate on a topic that has already been mentioned, but I should like to address it in a markedly different way.
Before Turkey becomes a member or whether or not full membership of the European Union becomes a possibility, should we not rather be looking for answers to the question of how we can even today help the European Union to build special relations with Turkey, thus enabling us to seriously address all the questions that we need to answer jointly, quite specifically in the field of foreign and security policy?
I am referring to Amendment No 7, which says that we must start building a special relationship with Turkey now so that we can solve all our common problems together.
We should not wait until Turkey's situation in regard to human rights, democracy, and so on, is such that it can seriously be regarded as a candidate country.
I should be pleased if this House would support this urgent matter so that we can achieve good cooperation with this important part of Europe.
Mr President, although we meet together this afternoon as representatives of the Member States , our concern is obviously for our friends, the candidate countries.
This morning's meeting was a wonderful and very positive symbol.
My main concern is for public opinion and the state of mind of others.
Thus, in our countries, there is still a great deal to do so that our citizens understand the profound meaning of the EU enlargement.
I fear that there is a degree of confusion in the candidate countries over what the European Union really is, over its fundamental objectives and what it means to have a will to live together whilst consenting to sovereignty being genuinely delegated.
For countries that are fervently attached to their independence and their freedom, becoming a member of the European Union is a very beneficial - and I am not a Eurosceptic - but very considerable step.
Mr President, with the enlargement of the European Union the border we share with Russia will lengthen and we will have several new neighbours.
It is very important for us all that our external border is both open and secure.
This morning some Members of the European Parliament were trying to lecture Members of Parliament of the new Member States, saying they must be prepared to give up their own country's right of self-determination and accept that the Union will develop into a supranational federation.
Mr President-in-Office, there are two parallel procedures here, the integration procedure and the negotiation procedure based on the plan put forward by the UN Secretary-General, who is using the Copenhagen Summit as a cut-off point and one of whose conditions is that both sides sign up to the original version of his plan.
My question is this: if this state of affairs continues, by which I mean if there is no reply from the Turkish-Cypriot side and this uncertainty persists, can the presidency of the Council assure us that the first decision taken at the Copenhagen Summit will be the decision to integrate the Republic of Cyprus on the basis of the Helsinki resolutions?
A Finnish national, for example, will have more rights in the Greek-Cypriot state than a Turkish Cypriot and a Portuguese national will have more rights in the Turkish-Cypriot state than a Greek Cypriot.
Mr President, I have had the privilege of working for the past three years on the EU-Lithuania Joint Parliamentary Committee, where we have had to deal with several difficult issues which have already been mentioned, so I will not repeat them.
The determination of the candidate countries to overcome these problems and work positively has resulted in incredible progress.
For a small country like Wales, which I represent, it is also significant that many other small countries will be represented here in the European Parliament in their own right.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants a Europe in which these small nations and regions play a significant role and where, at a future date, countries like Wales will have the same rights as our friends from the ten candidate countries.
Mr President, paragraph 46 of the report calls on the Council's Working Party on Nuclear Safety to report to Parliament on the implementation of safety measures for Temelin before accession negotiations are concluded.
The Temelin nuclear power station does not therefore at all satisfy the conditions laid down by the Council working party as agreed in the Melk Process.
If this is disregarded, the Commission's attempt, early this month, to create new safety standards for nuclear power stations can be considered a failure from the outset.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Members of this Parliament and colleagues from the candidate countries, may I extend a particularly warm welcome to our Latvian colleagues who were elected to their country's new parliament early in October this year.
I welcome them so warmly because I have felt very involved in their efforts and in their work for many years.
On days like today I ask myself - and I am sure I am not the only one to do so - what has particularly impressed me about the enlargement process in the last few years.
That sentence reads quite simply - and it applies to all ten candidate countries: 'The political conditions for accession are satisfied.' That means the first and for me the most important accession criterion formulated in Copenhagen is not an obstacle.
We ought to express our appreciation to all our colleagues in the parliaments and governments of the candidate countries for having stuck fast to democratic principles even in difficult situations.
The cultivation of democratic relations cannot be taken for granted in times of upheaval and reorientation, in times of enormous economic problems and radical changes in circumstances.
Ten candidate countries have essentially completed their preparations for membership.
It has been a demanding and often painful process for these countries.
That also applies at regional and local levels.
One of the things I believe is that it is important for there, in actual practice, to be compliance in all the sectors with the requirements for the integration of environmental and health protection.
That especially applies within agriculture and within infrastructure development.
What is fundamentally required in the negotiations is a high degree of flexibility, as well as of solidarity both with the candidate countries and, reciprocally, between the Member States.
Moreover, I say this partly because only a positive and convincing endorsement by people at the forthcoming referendums will put this important enlargement in the proper perspective.
I am convinced that the Danish Presidency and Commissioner Verheugen have the flexibility and the attitude of solidarity that will make it possible in Copenhagen to take the final decision on accession for each individual country, and if not on 12 December, then on 13 December.
The people of Central Europe cut down the barbed wire themselves and, since then, the candidate countries have made significant progress.
Responsible politicians point out not only the problems of enlargement, but also its great benefits.
Moreover, a division on the subject of Turkey's accession is once again looming in Europe and in this Parliament.
Mr President, I have often, in this Assembly, had the opportunity to quote from the excellent Norwegian handbook for mountaineers.
Life goes on behind a veil of illusion, and the most striking example I have experienced is probably, in fact, this debate.
What is required is simply unfeasible.
Let me just add that our excellent Minister for Europe is a terrific songwriter but that songwriting ability is not enough in this context.
It is a unique moment and an opportunity for everyone, members and future members of the Union alike, as Europe's history and diversity enshrine some fundamental values.
It has a larger population, it is more powerful and has more solidarity - it can still change world order.
The plan for sustainable development based on solidarity must be affirmed as the Union's objective.
Europe will be what we make of it: either an average power, entrenched in its egoisms - the egoisms of nations that have provided the countries involved in enlargement with only EUR 25 million whereas the Marshall Plan granted them EUR 97 million, or a Union promoting its political, social and environmental values.
One of our objectives with enlargement must be to gain more security by having a common strategy, a common policy in fighting against corruption, international crime, illegal immigration, and the like.
All the candidate countries have made tremendous efforts in the preparation process to bring internal security up to a high standard.
The Commission makes an annual review of the progress made.
As the candidate countries are represented here today, I call on you all to do everything to remedy the shortcomings that still exist and to ensure that the enlarged Union remains a union of security.
I hope that after Sunday's elections we will have a government in Austria that makes the common future of the Czech Republic and Austria central and stands in the way neither of the enlargement nor of the deepening of the European Union.
Secondly, I urge support for Amendment No 24 to the report, tabled by the ELDR Group.
This calls for the transformation of the accession monitoring process into a system of mutual peer review applicable to all Member States, old and new.
We need to invest money, time and effort in our systems of democracy and justice throughout the European Union.
The existing 15 Member States are certainly not perfect and we need to invest at least as much as we do in our agriculture.
We spend a lot of time talking about agriculture and structural funds.
We need to spend at least as much time talking about the underpinnings of democracy and justice in all our Member States, through mutually constructive evaluation.
Mr President, I am in favour of the enlargement of the European Union to include the whole of geographical Europe and beyond, but if the major powers that dominate the European Union enlarge it, it is not out of generosity.
Accession to the European Union will not protect the workers of these countries against unemployment that is already high, the low wages or the reduction of social protection schemes and will not prevent peasant farmers from being driven from their land.
Furthermore, it is indeed scandalous to note that, for several years, the citizens of these countries will not be able to enjoy the same rights to movement and settlement enjoyed by current EU citizens.
Today, I nonetheless want to draw attention to the sustainable development strategy adopted by the Gothenburg Summit and also to the UN's environmental management programme adopted in Johannesburg.
The EU has promised to take the lead in implementing this management programme.
There must therefore be a considerable increase in the proportion of resources from the structural funds and from the common agricultural policy that are to be set aside for the environment.
Since 11 September this has become even more important.
The recent change in government in Turkey in no way alters my view.
The people have spoken and we have to accept their verdict.
However, before a date can be set for the commencement of negotiations for entry, further proof must be forthcoming that this reform programme is being implemented.
Releasing political prisoners, ending torture, subjecting the security forces to the rule of law, respecting the rights of the Kurdish minority and other measures relating to the Copenhagen criteria are sure steps to securing the date for accession negotiations.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as chair of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities of the European Parliament, I should like to say that I am delighted that, as far as enlargement of the Union and laying the foundations for a real united Europe based on our common values is concerned, we have at last turned into the home straight.
As we do so, I feel that the women of Europe have a very serious role to play and that it is high time, in the run up to the new constitutional Treaty of the European Union, that we placed respect for women's human rights and the practical application of the recognised principle of gender equality in all sectors of economic, social and political life in Europe at the top of the political agenda.
Unfortunately, we are still a long way from this vision, as was perfectly clear during this morning's debate in the Chamber, when the list of speakers looked more like the membership list of a gentlemen's club to which women guests are occasionally invited.
Enlargement gives us the opportunity to sink the foundations of democracy even deeper.
I am also convinced that gender equality is not a superfluous luxury; it is a basic necessity if we are to improve the quality of our decisions, improve our understanding of contemporary problems and make our democracy function more efficiently.
This is for historical reasons, which were repeated over and over again this morning, but also for political, economic and cultural reasons.
The Commission's regime of progress monitoring and safeguard clauses can sometimes provide the answer, but this fine instrument can only be deployed to a limited extent.
We take the view, moreover, that these conditions should apply not only to acceding countries, but also to the current Fifteen.
The European Union is neither a charitable institution nor the champion of prosperity and freedom for the people.
At the same time, NATO is being extended eastwards and taking on a more aggressive role with the full support of the United States.
Despite expectations of prosperity cultivated by propaganda, the consequences of integration will be catastrophic for the economy of these countries, where production is still far lower than it was during the last years of socialism.
Mr President, as a Pan-European it has been my privilege to work towards this great day since the 1970s.
He is in the tradition of that great social democrat Jiri Pelikan, who was here as a Czech in exile following the first direct elections of Members of the European Parliament.
Let us join together in building a new Europe where the peoples live together as equals, where ethnic groups and minorities are protected, where the European cultural diversity that was expressed so impressively in the speeches here this morning is respected.
Now, we are opening up that cooperation to all the countries in our part of the world and showing that it is an option for the whole of Europe.
I share the view expressed by quite a few other speakers that we can all become winners in this situation.
Mr President, last week, I gave secondary school children in my province a few lessons on Europe and the imminent enlargement.
I am also taking part in this debate in my capacity as enlargement rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and I therefore follow the issue closely.
I think that now, after Copenhagen, we should tackle this issue firmly with both hands and far more effectively.
I am glad that the representatives of the applicant countries are able to participate in the work of the delegation discussing the future of Europe.
Criteria for membership, however, must be kept in mind right up until the negotiations have ended.
I hope that my neighbouring country, which has been very successful in the financial and technology sectors, can sort this problem out too.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Verheugen, I would like to start by thanking Mr Brok and all the rapporteurs for this report.
I understand the issue of Europe's borders, but the borders of our society will be defined by the heritage we can offer the world: the more we share our culture, the wider our borders will be and the more citizens there will be who opt to share our ideas for the institutional, political and social organisation of the Community.
I believe that the political goal we have achieved must be matched by progress in upholding human rights, the achievement of economic and social standards and the combating of corruption and crimes whose levels are still very high.
I hope that the Convention will be able to draw up a proposal which makes the instruments of democracy operational, which will help other areas of the world too and bring peace, prosperity and progress to mankind.
For example the completion of Unit 2 at Cernovoda is fully justified by the Phare study of August 2001.
The closure of units 3 and 4 at Kozloduy should be reassessed in the light of the International Atomic Energy Agency's conclusion, in its report, issued in June that these units have reached a level of operational safety which corresponds to those of the same age in other parts of the world.
Mr President, the enlargement of the European Union from 2004 constitutes an historic milestone in the construction of Europe, something that we all sincerely welcome, for several reasons.
First, because it symbolises the reconciliation of two parts of the same continent that were divided for more than half a century, until little more than a decade ago.
Second, because this is the greatest enlargement in the history of the European Union, with the number of Member States almost doubling and a one-third increase in its population and territory.
Third, because it encompasses countries that until recently lived under a state-run economy, which are now experiencing the painful but necessary phase of re-structuring their economies and which have a relatively low average per capita income.
Fourthly, because most of the new countries still have a very large agricultural sector in comparison to the current European Union.
We must also bear in mind, however, that some regions of the current European Union of 15 are also very poor, and hence the European Union cannot at the same time abandon the policy of economic and social cohesion that it has been pursuing for these countries for some years; secondly, it must be noted that doubling the number of farmers, with the accession of Romania and Bulgaria, will require the common agricultural policy to be vastly simplified, and will also require a reduction in aid for all farmers, both future and present, following the new funding limits for the CAP laid down by the Brussels European Council of 25 October.
The European Union must, therefore, take the proposal to reform the CAP recently put forward by its Commissioner for Agriculture seriously, in order to lay down a better future for farmers, both in the current Union and in the Union of the future.
Enlargement of the European Union in all its stages meant it acquired new neighbours.
Furthermore, future regional and structural policy must make transboundary cooperation and cooperation on both the old and the new borders possible.
That is not at all surprising since this Parliament is a reflection of the population of the European Union and this topic is very much on the minds of our citizens at home.
Turkey has always tried to put pressure on us, but that is not the way forward.
We will very soon have an opportunity to deal with this question objectively when we talk about the Oostlander report.
His report will give us an opportunity to dispute or discuss this subject objectively.
It appears to be about the fact that there will shortly be two important regional elections in Germany, in Hesse and in Lower Saxony.
Mr President, for 28 years, Berlin and Germany were divided.
Turkey must respect the UN resolutions and give its full support to efforts to reach a political solution regarding Cyprus.
If the discussions fail, Cyprus must nonetheless be given the green light for membership in 2004 at the Copenhagen European Council this coming December.
It is important to make it clear to the new Islamophile Turkish Government that it must ignore the Turkish Cypriot threat of a permanent division of Cyprus if the southern part is brought into the EU before the discussions between Turkey and Greece are concluded.
Initiatives on the part of the new Turkish Government and the UN on the Cyprus issue must be based upon this obvious insight.
Also, during a recent visit to Malta I saw the wonderful work being done in connection with sexual orientation.
We must apply the same terms, conditions and principles.
The same principles must apply to all the candidate countries and also to the countries such as Turkey which have indicated that they wish to join the European Union.
Mr President, I would like to ask the Commissioner, who is here today, and the President-in-Office of the Council to explain how they are going to apply the principle of equality within this enlargement process.
We must extend paragraph 24 of the Brok report to all areas and regions of the European Union, since enlargement must not have negative repercussions for any Community territory.
I would like to say to the candidate countries that they must bear in mind that the defence of human beings, without exceptions, without discrimination, is today the backbone of the European Union.
The exclusion of women, the exclusion of Romany minorities, are today the focus of our attention.
Mr President, I would like to make three comments.
We cannot express regret that European citizens lack an interest in Europe whilst also rejecting the debate on enlargement, enlargement which would be the furthest removed from the European Union's original plan.
At the same time, the enlargement process that is currently being undertaken includes the greatest number of countries.
Let us complete it successfully before launching a debate on possible future enlargements.
With respect to the European Union's major neighbours, one of which - but not the only one - is Turkey, we must be capable of proposing another solution to the dilemma with which we are trying to grapple, that of accession or exclusion.
The Group of the European People's Party is proposing another option, which is much better adapted to the real problem.
I am sure that Parliament will be open to the feelings of the population and will ask to move forward in this direction and lay down a new framework between the European Union and its neighbouring countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the enlargement of the European Union this time round is truly impressive.
We all know that the political importance of Cyprus far outweighs its economic importance to the future development of the European Union.
At the same time, however, by integrating Cyprus, the European Union itself is demonstrating that it is an international entity with international credentials and this will help enormously in resolving the Cyprus problem.
The implementation of the acquis communautaire in Cyprus is the key to reconciliation and cooperation and will enable Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots to live side by side in a single, federal, twin community, free, independent state which respects human rights and the ethnic origins and religious persuasions of its people.
Here, we are not discussing whether Turkey is fulfilling the conditions it needs to fulfil in order to become a member of the Union in the near future - and we can be rigorous in demanding that it does fulfil them - we are opening a debate on whether or not Turkey is to be allowed to join the Union in the future and wondering whether a different sort of association might be appropriate.
We are going back on decisions already made and reopening the debate on the opening of a line of credit for a major country - a country which is essential to Europe and the West - which has applied to become a full member of the Union.
There are good reasons for what I am saying: we have a duty to be unambiguous towards a major country which practises moderate Islam, is pro the West, which could have great cultural significance on our borders and could give substance to a Union foreign and security policy.
I think that is a great task that lies ahead of us and cannot only begin when the accession process is almost completed and the treaties signed.
The enlargement process must not cease after 2004 and 2007.
At the Helsinki European Council in 1999, Turkey was recognised as a candidate country for EU membership.
Three years later, the European Parliament cannot now, as some amendments demand, try to change this.
It would be unworthy of a generous and responsible European Parliament in this way to change the basic conditions set for Turkey.
Turkey has made great progress in order to be able to embark upon the negotiations with a view to EU membership.
The timetable for 2004 is a tight one.
The internal reforms the applicant countries implement will nevertheless increase the prosperity and stability of their societies in the long term.
The European Parliament will also have to monitor the situation and ensure that the present Member States, the Commission and the future Member States each play their part in completing the enlargement process.
Mr President, one evening, after winning a battle, Winston Churchill declared 'it is not the end, it is not even the beginning of the end, but one can say that it is the end of the beginning'.
Do not have any preconceptions or the feeling that you are arriving in a world made by others and for others: you are arriving along with others in a world that we shall all be building together.
In this way, a serious basis has been laid for the massive support for enlargement that Parliament has confirmed today.
Up until the negotiations in Copenhagen - that is to say over the next three weeks - we face a huge task in concluding the negotiations with each of the 10 candidate countries.
The Presidency will conduct the negotiations in cooperation with the Commission and with complete respect for the EU rules on expenditure ceilings set in Berlin and for the conclusions adopted in Brussels.
That was what the General Affairs Council recommended to the Presidency at the meeting yesterday.
The Presidency will make active efforts on this basis and do its utmost to find compromises that are acceptable to both the new and the existing Member States.
Following enlargement, we shall of course have new neighbours to the east and, yesterday, at its meeting in Brussels, the General Affairs Council adopted a longer term strategy for dealing with our new neighbours.
The Council expressed the desire to formulate an ambitious, long-term and integrated strategy in relation to each of these new neighbouring countries with a view to promoting democracy and economic reforms, sustainable development and trade and for promoting stability, prosperity etc on the other side of the new EU border.
The plan submitted is designed as an overall political solution to ensure that a united Cyprus is able to join the EU.
The Council will take a decision on Cyprus's accession, taking account of all the relevant factors.
The EU also supports the UN Secretary-General's efforts and will be able to endorse an overall solution to the conflict in accordance with the principles on which the European Union is based, that is to say with a view to Cyprus's being able, as a Member State, to speak with a single voice and to guarantee the correct application of EU law.
Turkey is a candidate country that will be treated in exactly the same way as the other candidate countries.
Mr Arvidsson is, of course, quite right that a Union with so many Member States must also concentrate on the essential issues and not spread itself too thin, for the system could become very complicated if the proximity principle and the principle of subsidiarity were not borne in mind.
With these words, Mr President, I want to express my sincere thanks for this debate of eight and a half hours which signals massive support for the great project we have under way.
The debate is closed.
