Turkey's obligations towards the European Union are very specific and are not subject to bargaining.
Mr Seselj surrendered voluntarily in January 2003, four years ago, when the indictment against him was published.
I quote: the court finds that the accused's self-representation ... (The President cut off the speaker) (ET) Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, Igor Smirnov, who, 15 years ago seized power with the help of the Russian forces in Transnistria, had himself elected for another five years as the president of an illegitimate country.
We must urgently demand their departure. (EL) Mr President, Article 49 of the European Union Treaty, which contains the accession clause to the European Union, specifies the role of the Union's institutions.
Of course, that independence never came and instead there has been a continuing military occupation by Indonesia for over 40 years, with torture, disappearance, detention without trial and murder of West Papuans at the hands of the military being commonplace.
I would encourage the EU to continue to show support for the process at this crucial time. (PL) Mr President, 25 years ago, on 13 December 1981, martial law was imposed in Poland.
On 16 December, nine miners were killed as a result of the brutal dispersal of demonstrators at the Wujek mine by special units of the ZOMO Motorised Reserves of the Citizens Militia, and 21 others were injured.
He was charged and sentenced within 24 hours under a fast-track procedure, without sufficient legal advice, with a local shopkeeper as an interpreter, and without advice from the British Embassy.
I would urge the Council to get a move on and adopt that proposal as a matter of urgency. (FR) Mr President, I want to express my disapproval at what Mr Kyprianou, European Commissioner responsible for health and consumer protection, said at a press conference on 9 November.
Yet, at Dublin Castle on 30 November, you urged Ireland to ratify the current text of the Constitutional Treaty.
On 17 October I tabled a priority written question to the Commission on the subject of animal testing under REACH.
I should have had a reply, I believe, by 18 November.
In particular, in 2005 the European Union exported wines worth EUR 446 million and beers worth EUR 110 million.
The other nations should do the same. (ES) Mr President, on 2 July, more than five months ago now, the presidential elections were held in Mexico.
As you all know, the winner was Felipe Calderón, the current Mexican President.
The European institutions cannot look the other way, and this European Parliament in particular must support President Calderón's legitimate government in Mexico.
I believe that President Bush will manage to persuade Congress to accept this programme. (PL) Mr President, much has been said in this Chamber about achieving the Lisbon objectives and enabling the European Union to compete with the largest economies in the world such as those of the United States, China or India.
It is they who are the driving force working to secure Europe's future. (PL) Mr President, 25 years ago, on the night of 12 December, martial law was imposed in Poland.
I tried to do something with it when recently 100 Members of the British House of Commons protested in connection with the discriminatory treatment meted out to a British Airways employee wearing a small cross.
In the last 6 years, 28 people have been killed, 122 have died on hunger strike and there have been thousands of protests from within, as well outside, Turkey.
Those laws are a licence to kill, and the first public execution of a British citizen was carried out last month when Alexander Litvinenko was poisoned and died in London.
I want to draw your attention today to the existence of illegal vine plantations in Europe, which are thought to cover an area of 150 000 hectares in the European Union as a whole.
According to the Commission's own figures in a March 2004 report, these illegal vine plantations are equivalent to an output of 5 to 8 million hectolitres at a time when European overproduction is put at 12 million hectolitres.
