It is shameful that this organisation has not intervened in a much more decisive and resolute manner already.
Today's reported figures show that 1 111 lives have been lost and the disease is spreading.
author. - (NL) Madam President, in the previous urgent debates on the subject of Zimbabwe that were held on 7 July 2005 and 24 April 2008, I indicated why Mr Mugabe has managed to stay in power for so long.
They include the Access to Information and Protection of Privacy Act, used by the government to effectively silence journalists; the Public Order and Security Act, which has severely curtailed the freedom of assembly, and hundreds of defenders of human rights, including workers of independent means, have been arbitrarily detained; and the Private Voluntary Organisations Act, brought back by the government in 2002 and presumably used to intimidate and harass NGOs.
We therefore wish Zimbabwe a happy 2009 without Mugabe.
author. - Madam President, in the past few years Zimbabwe has figured so often in these debates that we could be forgiven for running out of condemnatory words to say, but we must speak up because the long-suffering people of Zimbabwe have themselves been denied a voice by this ruthless despot, Robert Mugabe.
Shiri has the blood of 20 000 people on his hands.
The strident condemnation of Mugabe by the Prime Minister of Kenya and the President of Botswana stands out in stark contrast to the apathy of most other African states and leaders, and in particular South Africa, although we must now hope that a President Zuma takes a tougher approach.
The South African mediation was unsuccessful and the African countries have so far been disappointing in taking resolute action.
During the past decade, the average life expectancy in Zimbabwe has fallen from 60 years for both sexes to 37 years for men and 34 for women.
Madam President, the information contained in the Resolution on Zimbabwe is shocking: 5.1 million people, namely half of the population, are starving, over 300 000 people are threatened by a cholera epidemic, 1.7 million are infected with HIV and the average life expectancy is 37 years.
As the first Vice-Chairman of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, I can report that our African counterparts joined us in our critical assessment of the situation in Zimbabwe for the first time three weeks ago, at our session in Port Moresby.
That in itself should be a reason to withdraw its protection from the Mugabe regime. - (PL) Madam President, we discussed the situation in Zimbabwe on 24 April 2008.
The African Union is not taking effective measures to improve the situation in Zimbabwe.
The latter depends on the agreement of 15 September being implemented and a government of national unity being established.
