The principle of the free movement of ideas, respect for competition and the rejection of the monopoly effect of patents, and finally the protection of individual inventors and small and medium-sized companies against the overwhelming might of a few very large corporations.
Silicon Valley, Mr President, operated on this basis and developed for 20 or 30 years without patents.
Then, from the US, where there is no law on these matters, the idea emerged of extending patentability into this area.
The starting point is the idea that the immaterial is not technical and that everything that connects to the material world and that uses matter, energy or tools is patentable.
Later on, software programs were embedded inseparably in an invention in which carriers, software and handlers were again linked and inseparable.
We have therefore seen a number of courts and certain national patent offices, as well as the European Patent Office, committing the error of considering everything as technical, with the result that there are now 200&#160;000 patents of this type, or more, in the USA, and 30&#160;000 granted by the European Patent Office, notwithstanding Article 52, paragraph 2 of its basic charter, which stipulates that software programs are not patentable.
In all these cases, if the software programs had been free, the whole of Africa could immediately have benefited from them, for instance in the fields of teaching or medicine.
However, some of our most prestigious industrial companies have not understood what we are doing.
Legal costs in all these companies’ research and development budgets are increasing relentlessly, and now exceed 20% just about everywhere.
Two thirds of patents in force in the European territories are American or Asian, not European.
Finally, when Siemens, GEM PLUS or Alcatel sell their mobile telephony divisions, these divisions go off to Asia, taking their patents with them, thereby depriving Europe of any chance of developing in these areas.
We therefore feel, Mr President, that, in the long term, the defence of our European industry is better served by liberty and by freedom of access than by patents.
Either all software programs are patentable, in which case there is no problem: they all fall within the TRIPS (ADPIC) Treaty and WTO panels, but that is not what we want.
Or alternatively, no software program is patentable: they all fall under the international laws of copyright.
In the second case, we are also complying with the TRIPS treaty, although we are aware that the only thing prohibited by that treaty is the grey area.
I would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, who have also made a major contribution to the work of Parliament on this issue.
The proposed directive neither aims to abolish the current practice of the European Patent Office nor to extend it to cover the patenting of pure computer programs, as many of the opponents of the proposals have claimed.
The proposed text clearly excludes patents for pure software, as well as patents for business methods as such.
Only technical innovations embodied in a computer program and meeting the patentability criteria of novelty, inventiveness and industrial applicability can be patented.
A legal framework ensuring patent protection in this area is of key importance in enabling European industries, including small and medium-sized enterprises, to be competitive in a high-tech environment.
Amendments seeking rejection of the common position have been tabled.
Lack of harmonisation in this field would prejudice the competitiveness of the European undertakings and continue to be an obstacle to the smooth functioning of the internal market.
Instead, it seems more useful to focus on the scope of patentable subject matter in Article 4, bringing the exclusions out more clearly.
On key issues of substance, the Commission is strongly committed to promotion of interoperability as a means of fostering innovation and competition and to ensure that Community legislation does not act as a hindrance to different software development models – ‘proprietary’ or ‘open source’.
On the scope of patentability, further clarification of the common position is acceptable but not significant changes departing from the current situation or from general patent law solutions.
The Commission has noted the high number of amendments tabled in addition to the Legal Affairs Committee’s report.
The Commission and the Council have taken no account whatsoever of the amendments to the proposal for a directive that a majority in Parliament tabled at first reading.
I hope that a majority in Parliament will support the reasonable amendments made to the Council common position, and which render the requirements for the patentability of software more stringent than they are now.
On the other hand, the majority of present-day technological products make use of software and patents granted for a technological product should not be rejected simply because the software forms a component of it.
The directive should support European innovative research and product development in the software sector.
This means that unnecessary barriers to open source software development should not be erected, nevertheless taking into account the fact that patents are crucially important to many European companies.
Academic research, both here and around the world, has shown, however, that research and development input is not dependent on patents or geography.
Businesses should carry out software development where the best environment for innovation is available, regardless of the extent of patent protection in a geographical region.
The aim of the directive is to harmonise the way software patents are registered at the European Patent Office and in Member States, when they are granted.
For that reason, I am in favour of the directive becoming law.
I would like to remind everyone that if Parliament is not satisfied with the outcome of conciliation it can always reject the entire proposal even after conciliation.
I was able to follow the proceedings from the very beginning, and none of the things that have gone on in relation to this draft directive on computer-implemented inventions can be described as everyday legislative work at European Union level.
We have all experienced the sort of lobbying that one either finds intolerable or can regard as democracy in action, along with a lot of people assuring us that they, like we, want to see a high degree of willingness to be innovative on the part of European businesses.
Legislation has its limits, and I am sure that with this draft we have come up against them.
Either we want to create clear and unambiguous definitions and rules for implementation, in which case there is the danger of us not going far enough and hence leaving no room for future developments, or we leave room for negotiation, and so legal certainty and legislative consistency lose out.
It may be that we need, even more urgently than this directive, a truly European patent system and a working system of legal protection at European level that allows equal access to all, whether small or large.
Legislation could not be expressed any more clearly than in Article 52 of the Munich Convention.
Although this article is worded in very simple terms, it has, unfortunately, been interpreted incorrectly, or at least differently, in every Member State, and the result of that has been enormous legal uncertainty.
It is crucial to put a stop to trivial patents, because we have to protect and reinforce innovation and research, and with it competition and employment, within Europe.
If there are no rewards, nobody will invent anything, and so I believe that a fair reward scheme should be introduced for inventors, and that they should be able to protect their ideas, their intellectual property.
If not, I fear that, after labour-intensive production, which is already leaving for China, a huge number of corporate research and development departments will follow suit, particularly the multinationals, followed by the small and medium-sized enterprises.
That is why we Liberals have tabled Amendment 65, in which we ask for the whole of this directive to be rejected and ask the Commission to come forward with a European Community patent, so that this House can monitor the European Patent Office, which will then fall within the scope of European rules, and I think that we would have legal instruments and a legal organisation at our disposal.
What makes a difference is whether there is a clear dividing line between technical inventions, which will of course continue to be protected by patents, and software, which is, in any case, already protected by copyright.
The question is whether we opt for ten to fifteen back doors and the attendant legal uncertainty or for small and medium-sized businesses’ freedom to develop?
You will thereby be voting for software to be fully covered by the TRIPS agreement, and in favour of ideas becoming tradable commodities on a market in which small and medium-sized businesses will have no chance whatever to keep up, because the costs involved in developing patents and defending them in court are too great.
These 21 amendments represent our attempt at correcting the mistake made by the governments, who had obviously taken the wrong boat and had bowed to pressure from the industry.
Let us not harbour any illusions about the fact that industry wants full patentability for software, as a good source of additional income with which to fill up the cash till and, of course, as a way of driving small and medium-sized businesses, along with innovation, out of the marketplace.
The 21 amendments will enable us to have a free market, with companies competing in the market rather than in a court of law, and so I ask you to support these 21 amendments, which we urgently need if European innovation is to develop. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is indeed of huge importance because the stakes are extremely high.
The common position adopted by the Council on 7&#160;March&#160;of this year is as unacceptable as the proposal for a directive tabled on 20&#160;February&#160;2002.
Parliament had its say on the matter on 24&#160;September&#160;2004, yet the Council completely disregarded its opinion, and that is unacceptable.
Accordingly, as we proposed at the time as regards the proposal for a directive on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions, we advocate that the Council common position be rejected.
This is the most appropriate course of action at this time, and the only one that will prevent innovation and knowledge from following a very dangerous path.
As we know, the current copyright system already provides substantial protection for authors of software, giving them control over how their work is used.
To concentrate the right to create software in the hands of the few would lead to dangerous restrictions.
As we have seen, software has contributed towards the development of economies and has made it possible to make many tasks automatic and simplified at relatively low cost.
Under a legal framework in which software is governed by patents this would not be possible.
A business or a person at home would be forced to hire a team of specialist lawyers before designing new software to check whether the idea might infringe a patent.
This is therefore very dangerous ground.
Unlike normal patents, which protect an invention, software patents actually encourage the improper use of ideas.
What this boils down to is that software patents are simply legal mechanisms for concentrating the development of knowledge and the capacity for innovation into the hands of large multinational corporations such as Microsoft and others.
It is therefore crucial that we reject this Council position.
I have worked hard in recent weeks to help computer SMEs resist this directive.
That is why I will vote against it and Mr Rocard’s version of it.
However, it also saddens me to say that there have been many times when I have listened to the debate on this issue both in the committee and here in the Chamber and it seems that we are totally unconnected with the reality of what is happening outside these walls.
When people speak about ensuring that other people can use software patents, they seem to think that everybody can come up with these ideas themselves and do not need any protection or grounding in those ideas.
Some of the speeches in the Chamber here and some of the lobbying material I have received over the last few weeks on this issue concern protecting small and medium-sized enterprises.
This is not about harmonisation; this is more about mutual recognition of 25 varying and different regulations in the Member States to ensure that small companies, small innovators, can be guaranteed legal certainty and financial certainty with regard to the protection of their ideas and the promotion of them. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, are computer programs patentable?
The result of this parliamentary marathon could be the approval of a Bolkestein Directive – yet another – on the patentability of computer programs.
The European Patent Office, contrary to both the letter and the spirit of the law, has issued over 30&#160;000 patents to projects for mathematical calculations or methods of processing or displaying data.
Often, these patents are as wide-ranging, trivial and damaging as their equivalents in the USA.
It is the specific combination of these words that is protected, a protection achieved by copyright in precisely the same way as copyright in music covers a score, not the musical notes themselves.
We must refuse the Commission and the Council this licence to kill off innovation by the small software producer. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while I am obliged to the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, I particularly wish to put the spotlight on our own group’s shadow rapporteur, Mrs Kauppi, who has endeavoured in a quite splendid fashion to hammer out sensible compromises and reach a sound solution, thereby demonstrating expertise to an extraordinary degree.
That, in any case, is not what this directive is about; it was in fact intended to prevent the law developing in Europe in the way it has in the USA.
In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we made a whole array of vital improvements to the Rocard report by way of 39 amendments, making some things clearer – such concepts as ‘interoperability’ and ‘technical definition’, for example – and creating options.
A few months ago, we sat down together here and renewed our commitment to the Lisbon Process, at the heart of which – among other things – is a knowledge-based society in Europe.
Assessments by independent experts have shown that the Council common position would enable the patenting of computer programs.
The text that Parliament received two years ago, however, can be said to sneak this possibility in through the back door.
They lack the useful provisions of the Draft recommendation for a second readingof 29 April and 4 May 2005, which could have contributed to making a clear distinction between what is and what is not an invention.
This proposal, along with those for monitoring the European Patent Office, sits more conveniently in the context of the Community Patent and how it may be properly administered, which is where this whole matter really belongs.
The expression ‘controllable forces of nature’ is a legal nightmare for many Member States.
I am sorry but, for the real world of industrial technology, your blunderbuss amendments are simply not good enough. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this misleading and ambiguous Directive is a dream for patent lawyers and at the same time a nightmare for small software companies, consumers and freedom of expression on the net.
These companies are under threat, as are those being developed in Poland and in all the enlargement countries.
There has been confusion between patenting freely in an unrestricted fashion and innovation, which are two entirely different things.
What we are defending is the right to develop software, to develop the industry.
And this Directive is going to create restrictions and many obstacles to true innovation within this continent called Europe.
We believe that we deserve a world of software, a world of enterprise, a world for consumers, that is open to true innovation. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, although it is stated in the common position that there is a desire to exclude the patentability of pure software, the conditions are, in fact, being created for eventually patenting software algorithms.
Unlike copyright, which protects the whole program, software patenting would allow a monopoly on the use of general instructions.
Linux, for example, which is now used in various programs including those used by governments, is said to violate 283 US patents.
Introducing patenting rules could therefore mean the end of a free and open source software, at least in Europe.
If the patentability of software were approved, as US multinationals and the European countries that profit from the US monopoly very much want, a shift in costs would occur from the technology and innovation sector to the legal and insurance sector.
All of that would contribute to excluding small and medium-sized enterprises from the process of software development because of the costs and the legal complexities.
The Lisbon Strategy on the European economic model combines together technological innovations, competitiveness and solidarity.
The software patentability directive, attacks the right to the free transfer of knowledge and calls into question the objective of an information society that is accessible to all.
For that reason, the battle against the patentability of software that we are conducting in this House has become a battle for freedom and democracy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the reason why we have a proposal on patents for software-related innovations to consider is that current practice leaves something to be desired.
Differing opinions about whether software can or cannot be patented make the legal framework ambiguous, and so the logical way forward would seem to be to introduce fresh legislation in this area.
The question remains whether the common position offers a balanced solution that is appropriate for both large and small companies.
It is unfortunate that even experts have been unable to state whether the directive will promote innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises, or whether it will in fact put obstacles in their way and hamper innovation.
The costs involved in obtaining a patent are prohibitive, and to this the directive offers no solutions.
Moreover, it is unclear what the impact of the directive would be on the use and development of open-standard software.
As the common position as it stands is unconvincing and the Council seems unwilling to change tack again, the common position should be rejected. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, innovation and research have to be a shared heritage and not a privilege for the few.
It is important to point out this principle, in order to obtain a directive that represents a legitimate middle way between uncontrolled patenting, which risks paralysing innovation and competition, and the need to adequately safeguard those who, by means of their own inventions, can genuinely present added value in the market.
This is the only way to prevent an excessive extension of patent rights prejudicing small and medium-sized enterprises, and, consequently, the proliferation of patent disputes, as has been happening for 15 years now in the United States.
In particular, we believe that it is crucial to draw up an appropriate European patent regime, aimed at guaranteeing equal access for small and medium-sized enterprises. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, in the space of a few years, the constant flourishing of ideas in the information technology sector has enabled the gaps in technology and information to be reduced.
Software patenting stifles free invention – which up to now has been possible even without much capital – in order to protect a monopoly on the use of generic techniques, the outcome of mercantile absolutism which is extremely dangerous in political terms.
It is a serious bar to the freedom of ideas and to their reinterpretation, which serves only to hold businesses and government administrations hostage to the Microsoft lobby and to the small number of non-European multinationals.
Patents amount to a danger to the development of open source software and a threat to all of the Italian and European information and communication businesses – which are primarily small and medium-sized enterprises or even microenterprises – as well as an economic threat to the diversification of government information systems.
To defend the freedom of scientific research, the right to the transfer of culture and knowledge, not to say the protection of individuals’ fundamental rights, we have to save Europe from software patenting by opposing the European directive that proposes to introduce it and by supporting the amendments tabled by Mr&#160;Buzek, Mr&#160;Rocard and Mr&#160;Duff. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I particularly feel the need to congratulate Mr&#160;Rocard, Mrs&#160;Kauppi and Mr&#160;Lehne on the work they have done, as well as all of those who have dedicated themselves to these extremely difficult negotiations.
Firstly, the ambiguity surrounding the concept of technical contribution has to be eliminated, as it would thwart the effectiveness of the directive as a means of harmonising the procedures for issuing patents.
Secondly, a precise and incisive provision on the issue of interoperability has to be adopted, preventing the development of standardised solutions in the field of ICT.
The goal of harmonisation cannot be achieved if it conflicts with the principles on which the existing patent regime is based, which, over the years, has proved to be a suitable instrument and an effective incentive for the world of industry, for both small and large businesses.
In order to allow these new packages to be suitably developed, we must ensure that it is possible to combine copyright protection with patent protection for computer-implemented inventions, without software being patentable.
Particularly in these difficult times, Europe has to address the issue of competitiveness.
If the directive were not clear, it would work to the advantage of non-European businesses and we would be failing in our job and in our duty towards the Lisbon Strategy, towards the new social project about which so much is spoken and towards development.
If that does not occur, the Commission will be responsible for a non-sectoral proposal, which is almost impossible to specify, rather than for a comprehensive proposal on patenting as a whole that can satisfy small and large businesses.
The amendments presented by Mr Rocard and Mrs&#160;Berger are intended to maintain that balance, firstly, with regard to inventions applied by computer: we are not talking here about computer inventions.
Computer inventions — computer programs — are already protected by a Community Directive of 1991, which established intellectual property rights or, if you like, authors’ rights.
What we are talking about here is something completely different: inventions applied or assisted, as some amendments put it, by computer, that is to say, equipment that uses computer programs.
The fact that there may be a patent on a particular aspect of a computer program must not prevent creative freedom or the use of computer programs for continuing development.
That inter-operability clause, which is advocated in Amendment 50, is also advocated in a slightly different text – Amendment 68 — by Mrs Mann, Mrs McCarthy and Mrs Roth-Behrendt.
It is necessary, however, to think back to the original significance of the pact between the inventor and society, by which the inventor has a temporary monopoly of exploiting the invention, whilst society benefits from the increased knowledge arising from full disclosure of the content of the patent and therefore the basis for further progress.
As far as software is concerned, I believe that copyright protection is sufficient.
Personally speaking, I am in favour of a reform simplifying the procedures, including the adoption of a single language, that is to say, English, by means of rules also allowing small and medium-sized enterprises to utilise this fundamental instrument. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have to tell you that the whole debate in this House about software patents largely gives the lie to the constantly-repeated mantra disseminated by the European institutions throughout the continent, not least by means of Commission and Council initiatives, to the effect that we want to do all we can to protect the vital interests of small and medium-sized enterprises.
If what is now proposed for software patents actually goes through, it will benefit only two or three big firms, mainly Microsoft and SAP, one American and the other a major German firm, and perhaps also Siemens and firms of that kind.
It will, however, damage the vital interests of many small and medium-sized enterprises that have been very successful over recent years.
The rules on software patents that we are debating here today could well turn out to be a job-creating measure – the jobs in question being created for lawyers, who will have a lot to do if we do not reject the demand made of us today. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, over and above the official statements, a change has been added to Article 2 allowing patent protection to also include the software contained in a computer.
Patents have already been requested for ideas that are not new, such as the mouse click to carry out a command or the inequality operator in open source software, and for other unoriginal ideas that are today used in practically every software package in circulation.
No company must be able to build a monopoly through patented software.
Competition would therefore no longer just be a market issue, but would also become a legal issue.
Let us think about all of the university and hospital research institutes that today, thanks to the absence of this directive, carry out research by saving on software because they use programs devised by the institutes themselves, and which are therefore free of charge, or alternative software costing much less than Microsoft products.
In software, the great ideas of yesterday are the building blocks of the great ideas of tomorrow.
Our first concern should be for freedom, and in particular for freedom of economic activity.
When we vote on this report, and above all when we vote on the amendments to it, we must take care not to bring about a monopoly held by large companies, as this would be extremely damaging.
We are in favour of protecting freedom and economic success, rather than oppression and lethargy. &#160;&#160; The only directive that comes into consideration is one that clearly establishes the criteria necessary to distinguish between patentable inventions implemented by computers from non-patentable inventions, thus providing effective protection for such inventions in the EU Member States.
Otherwise we will be unable to support the draft regulation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, although it is claimed that we are debating one of the most controversial pieces of legislation, that would be the case only if half of us were in favour of it and half against.
This legislation does no more than to protect software by way of copyright.
Just as not just individual sentences are protected by copyright, but rather the book as a whole, so it naturally follows that not merely individual lines of software are protected, but rather the work as a whole.
We are well aware that over 30&#160;000 patents have already been taken out on software, and we want to stop that going on in the future.
This is not, therefore, the end of the story, and not just because we have yet to reach agreement with the Council; we will also be continuing to observe the way in which our legislation is put into effect and will reserve the right to take further action in three years’ time on the basis of what emerges from that. &#160;&#160; We have the opportunity to lead the world with good patent law, but are we up to the task?
The legal framework is clear: Article 52 of the European Patent Convention states that software as such cannot be patented.
But we must also ensure that small software developers are not faced with a minefield of trivial patents.
They must be able to innovate, write and develop lines of code and produce software processes without violating or breaking patent law.
Tactically, our first task tomorrow must be to defeat the simplistic proposals to reject the second reading.
I am afraid that would be a costly, legalistic and confusing situation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the way in which the software patents proposal came about is, to my mind, scandalous.
Even though this House took corrective action in 2003, the Council of Ministers managed, by dint of dubious voting procedures, to put the proposal back on the table.
The Dutch minister ignored parliament when decisions were taken in the Council of Ministers.
The campaign against software patents has been going on for a long time.
Tomorrow, we need at least 367 votes to amend or reject the Council’s text.
I urge all those opposed to software patents to be present in force.
We will then choose open source and creativity rather than the concentration of power and monopolisation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish, today, to address those who are not here – not all the 450&#160;million Europeans, but those who are waiting outside this Chamber, and those who pestered us with -mails, faxes and telephone calls.
What we are seeing happening today and will see happening tomorrow is important in terms of what democracy will be like in the Europe of the future.
We have seen for ourselves how the multifarious arguments put forward in this House are often far more astute, far more detailed, and far more precise than what we ourselves are capable of coming up with amidst the deluge of other decisions that we have to take.
After five years in which Members moved 5&#160;500 amendments and voted on 50&#160;000 additional items, none of us can claim to have really got to the bottom of it all.
I am persuaded that we will be doing democracy, small and medium-sized enterprises, even, indeed, economic prosperity a favour if we vote against these software patents.
That way we will see whose bidding the Members of this House have done: that of the parties with their resolutions, that of the lobbyists, or that of their own consciences. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is still persistently asserted that the proposal we are debating today would affect mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, and in a negative way at that, but it is mainly SMEs that stand to gain from greater legal certainty and a uniform application of the legal rules on the internal market.
I have always believed, and I am still convinced, that SMEs do not have a specific problem with this proposal, but a general problem with the patent system as such, both in terms of access and justification.
My question expresses the concern of large groups of SMEs and your response, Commissioner, will influence the way I vote tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the proposal for a directive by the Commission and the Council is unacceptable for a number of reasons.
The most important of these is the fact that in Article 4 it does indeed prohibit the patenting of computer programs, before immediately afterwards, in Article 5, leaving the door wide open to such patents if they relate – and I quote – to ‘a programmed computer [or] a programmed computer network’.
Fourthly and finally, that a major threat will be posed to democracy in Europe, given the importance of the Internet as a media form.
In his capacity as rapporteur, Mr Rocard has put an enormous amount of effort into getting to grips with this complex issue.
This field of invention, which is key in terms of the automotive, home appliances, mobile phone and other industries, for example, should however be regulated. &#160;&#160; In patent law, an invention is subject to a special form of legal protection.
It is not the tangible implementation of a particular idea that is protected, but the idea or concept itself.
The majority of the amendments proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs come close to bringing about a more balanced definition, so they seem to me to be a useful addition to the common position and a good basis for a final decision. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today is an important day for the European Parliament, as we have a real opportunity to prove that this House does in fact represent millions of Europeans.
The reason for this is that we can defend – and defend very effectively – the interests of millions of computer owners, as well as the interests of hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises.
We should not act as the spokespeople or lobbyists of large companies; instead, we should act as the spokespeople of the grass-roots social movement that is campaigning against misguided decisions by EU institutions.
The most important aspect of this debate is the public pressure, which opens up an enormous opportunity for Parliament to represent citizens not only in splendid theoretical pronouncements, but also in practice.
We should seize this opportunity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unlike many Members, I wish to point out that, in the course of our deliberations, all – or at any rate, most – of us have agreed that we want patents in the field of computer-implemented inventions, and that our European industry’s great strength is dependent on us getting them.
The present situation is schizophrenic in that businesses wanting to take out patents in this field can do so, and the Commission proposal actually did no more than argue in favour of more harmonisation across Europe.
I think all Members will agree that the second thing we want to avoid where patents are concerned is to go down the road taken by the Americans, which would make possible such things as the patenting of software-to-software, when what we want, to put it quite simply in computer language, is software-to-hardware.
It is a market threatened and corrupted by the jungle of the bureaucratic army, which, as a supporter of the large monopoly and oligopoly groups, is prepared to use the language of bureaucratic legal power to prevent the practice of free invention and free trade.
I believe that if tomorrow we adopt Mr&#160;Rocard’s amendments and the amendments that I myself have tabled, together with another 50 fellow Members including Emma&#160;Bonino, we will have a strategy and a winning opportunity.
Every bit as important, though, as the development of this intellect is, of course, the prevention of the theft of our ideas by others.
Patents protect the weak; they protect inventors against those who wield market power.
Patents decide in the intellect’s favour when it contends with the power of the market, and they do without reference to the size of the business concerned.
The Committee on Legal Affairs has made forty amendments to less than ten articles.
It has slowly dawned on me that the time is not yet ripe for a decision on this dossier, and we really should consider the possibility of rejecting the Common Position and thereby bringing the legislative process to a temporary halt.
If it were possible to do that, that might be the most responsible decision we could take at this stage. &#160;&#160; I have been following the debate on the draft CII directive with great interest, for one thing because of its importance (I am convinced that this is one of the most important drafts before this House), but also because I have never in all my career as a member of a national parliament or the European Parliament seen a piece of draft legislation that has been so misunderstood or misinterpreted by so many people.
We have heard so many things already in connection with this directive – about Microsoft, about Linux, about the interests of multinational companies and small and medium enterprises, legal software, open source code and copyright – that we have lost sight of what is really important, of what this is all about.
The important thing is the knowledge-based economy and society.
And the primary market means of protecting knowledge is the patent.
It is a discredit to Europe that the common European patent was not able to come into being, despite the fact that it is indispensable in order for knowledge and innovation to result in investment and profits.
It would be naïve to think that this directive is a completely new concept offering something in qualitative terms that previous legislation did not.
It does not represent something new and revolutionary; it represents acknowledgement of the simple fact that this modern world of ours is based on digital information and high-tech solutions, and that these are such an integral part of our everyday lives that it is impossible to conceive of development and technology without them.
There are also other solutions for protecting innovation.
But patents are the solution that establishes a connection between an invention and its market utilisation, and elevates knowledge to an economic factor.
Let us not allow this solution to slip away, because only a strong European economy is capable of upholding the European values that every one of us in this House represents. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, two worlds are at this present moment calling on the European institutions to be able to outline a more open and more flexible strategy on such an important issue for the development not only of the economy, but also of society.
They are therefore calling on us to amend the common position in terms of greater openness and flexibility.
Many Members have already spoken about small and medium-sized enterprises and I agree with the demand for greater flexibility, in order to avoid tightening up the directive on patenting.
I believe that on very few other subjects discussed in this House has there been such strong mobilisation of young people, of movements and of associations using software not only to communicate and to learn, but also as an occupation, as independent work, and for a thousand uses midway between the voluntary sector and the new professions, which are independently managed and are also highly important to the development of a society with a more open economic system that is more closely linked to the ability of young people to organise themselves.
One of them jumped right in front of our car and a computer-implemented invention called ABS brakes probably saved his life.
First of all, there is a dramatic first reading in the European Parliament.
Secondly, our position is totally rejected in the Council.
I am afraid this piece of legislation is going to be rejected tomorrow, as Mr Wuermeling said.
I do not know whether that is good or bad, but I know two things and I have two messages.
This would not have been such a bad thing after all, had we worked it through.
The Open Source folk beat you hands down, by 100 to zero.
Not even some time in the future will they be able to patent a mere computer programme with no technical impact, and the excellent open source idea will not perish after this directive comes into force either.
This I would venture to claim, coming as I do from the same country as the Linux system.
Many SMEs have been in contact with me from my country, Finland, and they say they will benefit from this directive.
It would at the same time protect them and their innovations from the big companies.
The big companies will always get by even without rules, but clear rules, on the other hand, always benefit the small ones.
Hopefully, this will not turn into another example of how Europe shoots itself in the foot and weakens its competitiveness. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this is a very complicated issue, which is the subject of a huge amount of lobbying by various groups.
It is important to have an efficient European patent system.
Secondly, we must amend the common position, which is not a sound legal document.
The directive on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions goes a long way towards defining the rules of play in the fastest developing sectors of the European economy, but a fervent debate has erupted over the ambiguous interpretation of the term ‘program as such’, which precludes exceptions from patentability.
I am in favour of consistent protection for software in the form of protection for the creative solution inherent in a whole program or part of a program, but I am opposed to patents being granted for individual ideas.
I am not opposed to patents in general, but I cannot consent to the adoption of this directive in the version proposed by the Council, which in my opinion admits several interpretations.
It is for this reason that I will only lend my backing to a version of the text that eliminates the possibility of alternative interpretations and that makes the text more precise.
The set of amendments tabled by my group represents an attempt to rectify the problems I have just mentioned.
I feel obliged to say that for my part, I regard the position adopted by the Council as most regrettable, since it has ignored the request made by me and many of my colleagues – and backed by Parliament’s Committee on Legal Affairs – to resubmit the directive for first reading.
Anyone who has been subject to the lobbying from both sides in this debate will have heard convincing arguments for and against the common position proposed.
Whatever your position on patents, you must agree that the current situation, in which 25 national patent offices have no consistent approach, does not contribute to an integrated and functioning common market moving forward.
SMEs in particular seem to be split on this issue.
Some people have decided to create the impression that this is an issue pitching the large multinationals against small SMEs.
SMEs very much fall on both sides of the argument, some wanting to protect their ideas and inventions and others fearing a patents minefield with the proposed common position.
That will spell a very serious failure of the institutions to find common ground and agreement on what is a very important area for the European economy generally. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the legal status of computer programs has been clearly defined for a long time.
Software is protected by copyright, and the European Patent Convention precludes the patenting of computer programs.
Speaking on behalf of Professor Buzek and on my own behalf, I would therefore call on the House either to vote in favour of all of the 21 amendments in this package, which restore the meaning the directive had after first reading, or to reject the directive altogether.
As noted by the German Parliament in its resolution of 17 February 2005, patent inflation brings with it the risk of a swing in public opinion regarding the effectiveness of a patent system as a tool for innovation and progress.
The main argument in favour of patent law was the desire to protect investments.
Officials often measure economic innovation by the number of patents, but these can harm investment by limiting competition.
There are a large number of leading IT companies that have never applied for patents, and virtually no IT specialists are interested in patent descriptions.
It is very hard for smaller firms to obtain protection, since the costs of enforcing a patent are extremely high, and sometimes even 100 times greater than the costs of gaining the patent.
With regard to the IT sector, where it is especially easy to make small changes, patenting programs would be the equivalent of creating a minefield. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the basic duty incumbent upon EU institutions during the legislative process is to enact good, easy-to-understand and effective legislation.
I do not need to remind the House of the number of times we have already heard assurances from both the President of the Commission and the representatives of the individual presidencies that this will be the case, and that Parliament is undoubtedly an important part of this process.
Today’s debate marks the end of our work on a directive that is unfortunately an example of an entirely different approach.
Both the Commission and the Council believe that their drafts are the only ones that are worth anything, and they have both rejected proposals by Members of this House.
I would like to believe that things will change this time, and that priority will be given to the interests of millions of EU citizens and of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs.
It is for this reason that we cannot concentrate only on the interests of large and wealthy companies.
The most serious doubts relate to the lack of any clear distinction between an invention, or in other words a patentable technical solution, and a computer program or an algorithm, be it a calculation method, a mathematical concept or a method of conducting economic activities, especially with regard to the retail trade.
In view of this fact, the point of this harmonisation is highly dubious, to say the least.
At the same time, the Commissioner informed us in his speech at the start of today's debate that this directive would not mean any changes in the EPO’s practices, which is an alarming statement.
The first reading was held on 24 September 2004, only to be ignored outright by the Council in its political agreement.
On 21 December, at Poland’s request, the vote was dropped from the agenda.
The German, Spanish and Dutch parliaments have expressed their opposition to the directive as proposed.
The European Parliament called on the Commission to produce a new proposal for first reading.
The consequence of that is a lack of satisfaction and 178 amendments on the table of this House.
They have realised that the European institutions are not as remote as some of their activities might suggest.
The fact that here in Europe we have to follow the goals of the Lisbon Strategy if we want to respond appropriately to the challenges of globalisation.
We must exploit our competitive advantage over other areas of the globe and base our development on knowledge and research and the implementation thereof.
Because of the important role of small and medium enterprises in the European Union, it is equally important that we take full account of the influence of the directive on their activities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, towards the end of what has been an interesting debate, it is time to get back to what we are talking about, the core of the matter.
I suggest to you that this is going in the wrong direction: it is not helping small businesses, it is not helping large businesses, it is not helping open source movement.
We have to decide whether we have not failed completely in this and whether it is not time to start again. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, the European Patent Convention protects the public interest by prohibiting the patenting of anything that is not a technical solution, and in particular of scientific theories, aesthetic creations, mathematical methods, plans or rules for performing mental acts and computer programs.
What is more, the Council has regrettably failed to submit an assessment of the directive’s impact on small and medium-sized enterprises and on the new Member States, as requested by Parliament.
Since small and medium-sized enterprises act as the driving force behind the IT sector, accounting for 70% of turnover and 80% of jobs, both these factors act as obstacles to dynamic growth in this sector.
Unless the directive is successfully amended, my group as a whole would rather vote against it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, today we can choose whether we want old-fashioned patent legislation with an old-fashioned view of large companies and of development or modern, small-scale and creative development involving modern legislation.
The only way of demonstrating our wishes today is to vote in favour of the 21 compromise amendments signed by myself and many others.
As Commissioner McCreevy said in his statement of March 2005, the ball is in your court.
Should you decide to reject the common position, the Commission will not submit a new proposal.
You should also remember that rejection would stand in the way of many European undertakings and go against our common Lisbon objectives of increasing Europe’s competitiveness.
Compulsory licensing schemes already exist in Member States’ legislation.
Copyright protects the expression of an idea, but it does not protect any invention and copyright protection does not prevent someone taking an invention and expressing it in a different way.
First, Members will be aware of the Commission’s proposals for a Community patent which would reduce the costs of patent protection throughout the European Union.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; Mr President having listened carefully to the various arguments presented during this morning's debate, I would strongly urge members of this House to give their support to the 21 compromise amendments which would stop the introduction of software patents in tomorrow's vote.
This draft legislation works against the interests of European Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs) operating in the software industry.
If this legislation is adopted by the Parliament tomorrow it will stifle innovation and stifle vital European SMEs.
The Parliament must vote against this legislation.
SMEs are the lifeblood of job creation in Europe.
The Commission can accept Amendments 1, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, provided the change is consistently applied: 14, 40, 72, 93, 114, 135, 158 15, 18, 21, 26-37, 43, 47, 58, 59, 60, 61, 63, 66, 75, 79, 90, 91, 92, 96, 100, 111, 112, 113, 117, 121, 132, 133, 134, 138, 142, 153, 154, 155, 161, 165, 176, 177, 178.
The Commission can accept in the context of a satisfactory and balanced global package Amendments 5, 25, 48, 50, 67, 68, 80, 82, 101, 103, 122, 124, 143, 145, 166, 168.
Together with the other countries, the European Union was the first to respond to the global invitation.
The report on the exploitation of children in developing countries, with particular emphasis on child labour, is the first action which relates entirely to the phenomenon of child labour, which has taken on worrying proportions worldwide, especially in Africa, Asia and Central and South America.
This phenomenon applies not only to developing countries, but also to the European Union.
However, it is the 121 million children – including 65 million girls – who never went to school that are sounding the alarm bell.
In 1990, the conclusions of the World Summit for Children included the objective of ensuring that, by 2000, every child in the world should have access to education and at least 80% of them should have the opportunity to finish a basic education.
This is the main element which I wish to mention in my report. &#160;&#160; That concludes the vote. &#160;&#160; I am glad to be able to welcome to the House a delegation from the Indian Parliament, who are sitting in the Official Gallery.
Last year, a working party from this House met with their Indian counterparts in New Delhi, and this visit confirms the renewed interest in an exchange during the present Parliament, both the Indian parliament and our own being newly elected.
We particularly welcome the ongoing and ever more fruitful cooperation with India, and we will play our part in deepening the cooperation between our Parliaments.
A warm welcome to you! &#160;&#160; Mr Ciampi, ladies and gentlemen, it is our honour and privilege to receive in this House today the President of the Italian Republic, Carlo Azeglio Ciampi.
I believe that, at this particularly difficult time for Europe, we should remember that President Ciampi was the minister who made a decisive contribution to Italy’s entry into the euro, and it is good to remember this at a time when some people are beginning to see the euro as an uncomfortable straitjacket rather than an instrument that is fundamental to prosperity and economic stability.
I already knew the politician, but in Rome I had the opportunity to get to know the person who has always fought lucidly and passionately in favour of a Europe that is a guarantor of peace, democracy and economic and social development.
Mr President, we are convinced that your visit, your example and your words will be of great assistance to us at the difficult crossroads Europe is facing today, so that we can make further progress on the construction of a Europe that is able to guarantee not just peace and cooperation, but also prosperity and security, and that is able to do in the rest of the world what it has done here: create a society based on respect for diversity, on the integration of differences and the construction of a common identity.
It is above all, and has been since its beginnings, a political structure, a land of rights, a constitutional reality that does not contradict our beloved national Constitutions, but connects them and completes them.
It is already strong enough to enable us together to do many things for our citizens, in order to regain the popular consensus on the Treaty that has been lacking in many countries and to strengthen our institutions, which we have inherited from a successful past.
Precisely because we are already a political and constitutional body, we can indeed realistically assess the meaning of the rejection seen in two countries linked from the start to the European project.
As little as a few months ago, on the occasion of the formal signing in Rome of the Constitutional Treaty by the 25 governments of the Union, the single project met with widespread consent.
If we raise our eyes, the Treaty of Rome of October 2004 rather appears to be the scapegoat of widespread unrest that does not so much relate to institutional order as to the government policies of the Union.
The fundamental principle of subsidiarity has to be interpreted as a principle of political cohesion, allowing bottom-up participation in Community decision-making, starting from the thousands and thousands of town councils in our Union.
Europe also needs physical cohesion, transport and communication structures, which make Europeans more united while respecting the environment and the countryside.
We cannot allow substantial disparities in living standards to persist among countries and consequently among the peoples to whom our international personality offers united representation.
I have always believed, first as a banker and then as a politician, that the principle of free trade in the economic culture of the Union means being able to speak to the market in the language of the market, but that it cannot mean indulging all of its whims.
It is the lack of political will from national governments that prevents their budget policies from being effectively coordinated.
The Lisbon Strategy is the first link in a chain that should lead to the European economy being governable.
The national governments must send out a precise message, made convincing by the allocation of public resources.
We have been successful on many occasions, including in recent years, for instance in CERN and the European Space Agency, with the ITER and Galileo projects, which have been a decisive step forward in strengthening Europe’s technological capabilities, and with the Erasmus project, which has opened up new European horizons to over a million young people.
Airbus too is an example of what we can do together if we only unite.
It is an encouraging sign of confidence that six of the ten accession countries have already begun to take part in SME 2, thus taking the first important steps towards joining the euro zone.
The tangible benefits of taking part in the single currency are there for all to see: protection from imbalances on the exchange market, low interest rates and strengthened competition in those countries of the euro zone that have adopted virtuous policies. &#160;&#160; Would the ushers please remove that symbol immediately.
An open and frank political debate on the priorities for the Union’s actions is a positive step, but a Community budget needs to be approved as soon as possible that not only reflects a balance among the various requirements of the Member States, but is also based on consistent, inclusive objectives.
I express in this House the earnest hope that the British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, President-in-Office of the European Union, succeeds in the work he pledged to carry out before this Parliament.
Finally, the future of our Europe calls for policies of security and peace.
The international vision of the European Union, based on the primacy of the law, on trust and on the multilateral system, raises expectations and hopes throughout the world.
The resolution adopted in June, like the previous resolution of January 2004, stipulates that a single seat for the European Union in the UN Security Council is the objective that Europe must set itself.
This clarity of vision is a credit to the European Parliament.
Enlarged Europe has now touched the boundaries of its cultural and historical identity.
Although geography does not enable Europe’s borders to be identified with certainty, the common area of principles, values and rules conveyed by the European Union is today fully identifiable.
We expect the new Member States, which are entitled to live in a Union that is effective and united in relation to them as well, to provide a constructive and enthusiastic contribution, and we have already seen them do so.
The very conclusions of the European Council of 16 and 17 June encourage a debate designed to generate interest and invite the European institutions to contribute to it.
For that reason, I look with concern on every slowing down, on every crisis in the European integration process.
Having listened to you, Mr Ciampi, I believe I can say, on behalf of the great majority of Members of this Parliament, that this institution will remember your words.
You have shown that you belong to the young Europe.
I am sorry about the incident, which in no way represents the majority of this House, quite the contrary, and I pray that the ideas that you have expressed here will help us in the debate we must pursue.
We therefore thank you once again, Mr Ciampi, for being here with us and we hope that your words will be heard outside this Chamber. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I am basing my point of order on Articles 166, 75 and 83 of the Regulation and on Article 48 of the Treaty on European Union, as Articles 75 and 83 of the Regulation refer us to the wording of the treaties.
Article 48 of the Treaty on European Union stipulates that amendments to that treaty will enter into force after ratification by all Member States in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements.
The proposal for a Council decision concerns the conclusion by the European Community of the Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Water-birds signed by the Community on 1 September 1997, in force since 1 November 1999.
It protects 235 species of birds which are ecologically dependent on wetlands in particular in Africa and Eurasia.
The common position is not entirely based on scientific fact.
The subsequent tightening-up of the common position that Parliament has adopted today, and which has already been adopted by the Council, is even further removed from what can be deemed acceptable on scientific grounds.
For more details, I would refer to my contribution to the debate of 5 July 2000.
We welcome the adoption of this report because it will lead to a permanent ban on the use of six chemicals in items for children, in the light of scientific studies showing that in some cases they can be carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic.
This is a welcome decision and a positive contribution towards protecting children in particular and public health as a whole. &#160;&#160; – By voting for the gradual elimination of phthalates from toys, Parliament has finally stood firm against the intense lobbying by the manufacturers of toys and articles for children, upholding the principle of prudence and protecting human health.
Today's vote is a success in those terms.
If the industries really want to be as responsible as they claim, they must stop using soft PVC not only in toys but also in other products (medical equipment, floor coverings and food packaging).
Children’s health must come first. &#160;&#160; The following are three key aspects of energy security that were not duly taken into account in the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council.
Although the report states that its objective is to set up a framework in which the Member States will set out general, transparent and non-discriminatory policies on security of the electricity supply, this objective is in fact lower down the report’s list of priorities than the need for compatibility with the requirements of a competitive single market for electricity.
The proposal also recommends that the Member States and the regulatory bodies intervene to support initial investment and the return on that investment, but restricts their ability to take action in other areas.
For example, it fails to provide specific measures for the regulatory body to take in the event of non-compliance on the part of the transport network when carrying out projects.
I indicate three major aspects of the energy security which are not adequately underlined: · enhanced use of renewable energy sources · balanced use of various types of primary fuels · diversification of supplies from various production centres (oil and gas fields) within one type of the primary fuel.
The main provisions of the proposal are aimed at establishing measures ensuring the proper functioning of the EU internal market for electricity by safeguarding security of electricity supply and by ensuring an adequate level of interconnection between Member States.
The establishment of a framework setting out a transparent, non-discriminatory policy that is compatible with the requirements of a single market for electricity is crucial to the issue of security of supply.
We should therefore support the measures taken to improve energy policies, given their vital importance to the quality of our lives, both now and for future generations. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we have to defend Members’ freedom of debate from attempts to prevent them from speaking out on political action, irrespective of the party or the movement that they represent.
That is why I voted in favour of immunity.
If I declare today that the ministers of the Italian Republic, Gianfranco&#160;Fini, Altiero&#160;Matteoli, Gianni&#160;Alemanno and Mario&#160;Landolfi have betrayed the political project and statute of the and have destroyed the alternative to the liberal and communist regime by changing the statutes and the aims of that party and transforming it into a different entity, can I be investigated and prosecuted for such an act or am I exercising my right to political debate?
The solution cannot be more of the same acceleration of the so-called structural reforms, namely, making the labour market more flexible, the policy of liberalisations and the privatisation of social security.
In order, nonetheless, to be able to participate in the common currency, countries sold off their gold reserves and state property on a large scale, going through the motions of privatisation, divesting and indulging in a great deal of cosmetic budgeting.
If the new Member States are not also to be sucked into this downward spiral, each country should take the decision by allowing its people to vote on it, having first been supplied with frank, honest and objective information. &#160;&#160; We are well disposed towards the European Parliament’s resolution on an information and communication strategy on the euro and Economic and Monetary Union (EMU).
At the same time, we voted against the European Parliament’s call to shift Swedish opinion in favour of Swedish participation in EMU and of a transition to the euro.
Swedish participation in EMU and the eurozone will not be a live issue for the foreseeable future. &#160;&#160; I have today chosen for two main reasons to vote against the own-initiative report on an information and communication strategy on the euro and Economic and Monetary Union.
Firstly, I believe that it is up to each Member State to decide how it wishes to conduct the debate on the euro.
Secondly, experience of centralised European campaigns is generally bad.
Discussions of monetary policy and currency should instead take place through a dialogue between citizens and decision-makers.
Consequently, we reject this report unequivocally, because it is based on the principle that the euro has been positive and beneficial.
They disregard the fact that the economic and employment situation is worsening, and overlook macro-economic issues, as though a single monetary policy could address the different needs of 25 economies.
They also act as though the objective of this policy were neutral, when in fact the primary aim is to reduce salaries in real terms.
According to the report, the euro and its accompanying Stability and Growth Pact have been a complete success.
The only failure has been communication: as usual, it is the Europeans who have missed the point!
The euro is synonymous with growth and prosperity.
It was precisely that type of attitude, a mixture of lies and contempt for the people, which led to the rejection of this Europe of the technocrats. &#160;&#160; I cannot support the European Parliament’s resolution on an information and communication strategy on the euro and Economic and Monetary Union (EMU).
I believe that it is up to each Member State to decide whether it wishes to have an information and communication strategy or campaigns for the euro and Economic and Monetary Union.
Unfortunately, the Dutch people were not able to speak out in that way. &#160;&#160; I believe that Sweden should participate in Economic and Monetary Union and I share the rapporteur’s positive attitude to the euro.
I have, however, chosen to abstain from voting on this report.
I believe that information campaigns by the Commission are neither helpful nor appropriate if we want to see more people well disposed towards the euro.
I should like to congratulate Mr Maaten on his important report on the implementation of an information and communication strategy on the euro and Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), particularly given the need to explain to the people how the euro and the EMU benefits them in their daily lives.
The successful creation of the euro zone is not complete – we still have to convince the citizens of Europe that they made the right decision.
This is the only way in which we can contribute towards consolidating monetary union in Europe and towards enhancing the euro’s credibility and stability.
Nevertheless, it is dispiriting to note that despite the objective benefits of the euro and despite the generally smooth change over that occurred, seven years on, a significant section (about one third) of the public continues to have a negative perception of the euro.
His main concern is to help the governments of Sweden, Denmark and the UK persuade the public that the euro has been a success.
It should also be borne in mind, however, that the euro is in fact a work in progress and as such is an easy target both for genuine popular disenchantment with the economic situation in Europe and for a certain amount of political manipulation.
The European Parliamentary Labour Party believes that information on the Euro should be made widely available to all citizens of the EU.
I share the rapporteur’s positive attitude towards the euro and believe that Sweden should participate in EMU.
Furthermore, sustainable development cannot be achieved without the development of new environmental technology and innovations.
It is on these principles that the Commission has based its proposal, which Parliament adopted, although a number of points should be brought to the fore, such as the need for small and medium-sized enterprises to be more involved.
A further important point to bear in mind is that, in order to foster sustainable development, it is also necessary to encourage research into, and innovation in, new technologies focused on prevention and the restoration of natural, cultural and historical resources.
I see it as a useful basis for discussion and development of more concrete proposals on how to boost environmental technologies but would like to see more emphasis on the development of the demand for such technologies.
I would like to seem a more systems-based approach to environmental policy using "life-cycle" thinking where great importance is attached to the innovation and development of environmentally benign technologies.
The proposed action plan will make it possible to involve all stakeholders in an integrated action to develop the potential of environmental technology, thereby placing the EU at the forefront of that development.
It is therefore extremely important that we enhance the environmental dimension in the EU’s strategy for competitiveness. &#160;&#160; The Moderate delegation has today voted in favour of a report in support of the fight against harmful child labour.
It is very important vigorously to combat child labour, as defined in the ILO’s conventions on child labour, that is damaging to children’s physical or mental health.
Businesses have an important role to play and a responsibility for combating this type of child labour.
Poverty leads to social exclusion and acts as a justification for families to turn to child labour to supplement their incomes and to survive.
The fact that children do not attend school leads to a vicious circle, in which poverty becomes more widespread, access to culture and education becomes ever more difficult and literacy levels in society are kept low.
If we are to combat child labour effectively, the priority is therefore to eradicate poverty, by breaking down inequality in income distribution, by promoting jobs with rights, by increasing access to teaching and culture and by combating capitalist exploitation. &#160;&#160; The European Parliament has today voted in favour of a proposal concerning measures to combat child labour.
Unfortunately, not all countries in the world have kept up with developments.
Child labour is not a phenomenon associated exclusively with underdeveloped or developing countries.
In Eastern Europe and in the Mediterranean, millions of children are exploited in work places.
We all know that this is a complex phenomenon rooted in social and economic problems that are difficult to solve.
The report states, for example, that education for all is crucially important in the fight against child labour and poverty.
Certain forms of work, for example those through which education is made available in the workplace, may, moreover, have a positive contribution to make.
I believe that full use should be made of the potential that exists for economic players to increase respect for human rights and international conventions.
I therefore strongly support initiatives such as ‘Global Compact’ and the Swedish Government’s ‘Global Responsibility’.
Passing legislation and making it possible to take proceedings at EU level would, however, be very major steps that might, rather, be in danger of defeating the objects, namely those of improving the position of children and combating poverty. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on: - the interim report (A6-0177/2005) by Mr&#160;Konstantinos Hatzidakis, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund [COM(2004)0492 – 2004/0163(AVC)], - the interim report (A6-0178/2005) by Mr&#160;Alfonso Andria, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a Cohesion Fund [COM(2004)0494 – 2004/0166(AVC)], - the report (A6-0184/2005) by Mr&#160;Giovanni Claudio Fava, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Regional Development Fund [COM(2004)0495 – C6-0089/2004 – 2004/0167(COD)], - the report (A6-0206/2005) by Mr&#160;Jan Olbrycht, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on establishing a European grouping of cross-border cooperation (EGCC) [COM(2004)0496 – C6-0091/2004 – 2004/0168(COD)], - the report (A6-0216/2005) by Mr&#160;José Albino Silva Peneda, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Social Fund [COM(2004)0493 – C6-0090/2004 – 2004/0165(COD)], - the report (A6-0217/2005) by Mr&#160;David Casa, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the European Fisheries Fund [COM(2004)0497 – C6-0212/2004 – 2004/0169(CNS)]. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I think that today the European Parliament, following the Council's failure to reach agreement on the financial perspectives and, obviously, also on the framework for regional policy for the period 2007-2013, is sending a clear message to both the citizens and the Council that we are here; we continue to support cohesion policies and we shall work towards a strong budget which is adequate in all instances for regional policy.
We support a package in the order of 0.41% of the gross national income of the Member States of the European Union, which translates into EUR 336 billion for the period 2007-2013.
My report, as approved by the Committee on Regional Development, also contains other important forecasts, of which I should like to remind both the British minister present and the Commissioner.
We propose that, instead of being re-entered in the net contributions to the European budget, these resources should be re-used by the cohesion countries and the regions which have proven from their performance that they can make use of other such resources.
Secondly, we are calling for there to be political decisions, so that compensation can be given to the regions and the Member States which suffer most from the strict implementation of the new rules which the European Commission is proposing regarding the allocation of resources.
We are also calling for more favourable treatment both of these regions and of the regions subject to the statistical effect as regards state aid and investment incentives.
Finally, my report sets accessibility for people with disabilities as an express precondition to the financing of actions via the funds.
I felt it necessary to give particular attention to the contact and exchange of opinions with fellow Members, with the shadow rapporteurs for the political groups and with the draftsmen of the other parliamentary committees, not to mention with members of the group to which I belong, that is to say, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
I have, moreover, always regarded with great interest the original proposal of the Commission on a regulation for the Cohesion Fund, which today, like the crisis that has swept across the Union and the failure to agree on the financial perspectives, assumes greater importance, since it provides a suitable response to the needs of an enlarged Europe by aiming at economic and social cohesion.
I therefore share the hopes expressed by Mr&#160;Hatzidakis with regard to the swift resolution of the issue of the financial perspectives before the end of the year.
I should therefore like to stress the importance of increasing the financial allocation of the Cohesion Fund from the EUR&#160;18 billion estimated for the 2000-2006 programming period to EUR&#160;62.99 billion, in the event that an agreement is reached in the Council on the proposal adopted by Parliament on 8 June.
Furthermore, the increased scope of the actions of the Cohesion Fund complies with the relevant provisions of the Treaty, is in line with the priorities decided on at Lisbon and falls within the perspective of sustainable development outlined in Gothenburg.
That will make it possible to meet the major funding needs of beneficiary Member States in the sectors of the environment, transport infrastructures and sustainable development.
During the work that I carried out within the Committee on Regional Development, I sought to make a number of changes and to enrich the Commission’s text with a series of original points, such as introducing a premium system in the shape of a Community reserve for quality and performance and strengthening exchanges by promoting best practice for national, regional and local authorities.
I have asked the Commission to draw up a list of indicative priorities in the programming period, with a view to increasing the quality and effectiveness of Community funding.
I have highlighted the topic of disabilities, calling for an explicit reference to disabled people to be included in Article 2 of the general regulation and for the projects financed by the Cohesion Fund to include the possibility of removing barriers and obstacles of every description.
I have also made room for the important issue of the environment, calling for guarantees of greater consistency between the projects financed by the Cohesion Fund and those financed within the scope of other Community programmes.
Finally, I have made an explicit reference to the island and peripheral Member States, inviting the Commission to take account of their natural and demographic handicaps.
I am dealing with the European Regional Development Fund, which is without doubt the most important of the Structural Funds in terms of quantity of resources.
It was set up 30 years ago and has the crucial task of correcting the regional imbalances present throughout Europe.
The ten new Member States represent a large resource in terms of the quality of policies, a significant step forward in the history of Europe.
Right now, a third of all of Europe’s resources belong to a geographical area covering only a tenth of the European Union, and we have recorded a doubling in the number of regions eligible to come under Objective 1, that is, regions with a high level of structural imbalances and economic difficulties.
In contrast – and for this I am grateful to the Commissioner – we have the choice of a political, social and economic project entrusted to the Structural Funds, or rather the choice of a development model that, in its entirety, benefits the process of European integration.
It favours the choice of subject matter made in Gothenburg and Lisbon and therefore chooses the path of the knowledge-based economy, knowledge, innovation, scientific research and training, intended as a permanent opportunity throughout people’s entire lives, as well as risk prevention and sustainable development.
However, to consider that Structural Funds could be generally invested in the construction of housing would mean fundamentally withdrawing resources from such funds.
The EU is aware of the many benefits that can be derived from this form of international cooperation, and therefore supports it both within the EU, along the borders between Member States and between regions that are some distance from each other, and along the EU’s external borders.
The new regulation gives public authorities at all levels the opportunity to establish a new instrument on the territory of one of the chosen countries.
This instrument will have legal status in the country where it is registered, and will subsequently be notified to all Member States, the European Commission and the Committee of the Regions.
The entities making up a European Grouping of Cross-Border Cooperation – the original text uses the term ‘cross-border’, but I have proposed in my report that this be replaced with the term ‘territorial’ – will be able to transfer selected public services to the Grouping, as well as entrusting it with some of their tasks, as provided for in the relevant regulations.
In my opinion, Parliament should back this idea, in so doing sending out a very clear and measurable signal that it supports these actions at local, regional and national scale, and also at inter-local and inter-regional level and between the countries that are engaged in the task of constructing a coherent EU, while at the same time strengthening the principle of subsidiarity.
It is worth stressing that even though this regulation does not contain any decisions relating to financial matters, it is part of a package on cohesion policy.
This is quite normal in situations where we are dealing with a new instrument which has not yet been tested, and which does not yet have any equivalent in existing legal forms.
The most important landmarks in the development of European social policy – and, accordingly, in relation to the ESF – came subsequently with the Maastricht Treaty, which enshrined the promotion of a high level of employment as one of the EU's objectives, and with the Amsterdam and Nice Treaties.
With specific regard to the modernisation of the European social model, investment in people, action to combat social exclusion and a set of priority actions such as the establishment of a European Research and Innovation Area, investment in education and training systems with a view to satisfying the requirements of a knowledge-based society and meeting the need to create more and better jobs, I feel that the proposed regulation is an appropriate instrument.
Although it is true that the Commission’s proposals already advocate simplification in various areas, such as programming, financial management and cofinancing, it is also true, nonetheless, that there remain many areas in which further simplification and rationalisation are called for.
I feel that issues relating to social inclusion cannot be resolved exclusively under the employment and labour market umbrella, given that there are situations that, at an earlier stage, call for more wide-ranging interdisciplinary measures.
I have always believed that the ESF should have as wide a scope of application as possible, because it is an instrument that is designed to help people, regardless of where they come from.
Talks between the Commission and the political groups involved have led to a compromise solution that is consistent with policy and that ensures that resources are channelled into regions with the greatest development needs.
For example, I share the Commission’s opinion as regards transnational cooperation and innovation, and have proposed that financing by the Member States be compulsory.
On support for social partners, I also share the Commission’s position, and have proposed that a distinction be enshrined as regards a number of regulatory issues between social partners and non-governmental organisations.
It is universally recognised that the fisheries sector is a very important sector for the European Union; it is an industry that provides a livelihood to thousands of families.
First of all it provides a financial instrument forming an integral part of the Common Fisheries Policy, with the specific intention of monitoring the management of resources, helping to improve production structures and to create the ideal conditions for their sustainable development.
Secondly, it conforms with the principles of cohesion, which permit different treatment in different regions of the European Union according to their level of development and prosperity.
We met all parties involved in this sector, we consulted the fishermen and the representatives of the Member States and we wanted this report to eventually reflect accurately this sector’s needs.
Representatives proposed that the draft regulation should make provision for fleet renovation and modernisation while at the same time keeping open the possibility of building new vessels without any increase in the fishing effort.
The general opinion is that the Commission focused too much on the environmental aspect and took no cognisance of the potential risk of certain measures to the fisheries sector.
We could, perhaps, with the help of scientific research, arrive at a more constructive and balanced compromise and thus create a balance between the protection of resources and the sector’s socio-economic viability.
I believe that the report on which we will be voting tomorrow takes good account of the needs of all those who work in this sector.
I believe that it is fundamental for us that there is agreement on the principles which will allocate funds to the fisheries industry.
The protection of the environment is something that causes a lot of concern, and the excessive use of precautions leads to over-protection.
As already said, the Committee for European Fisheries already mentioned various opinions on this subject and different aspects of the proposal were considered, including the problems of sustainable development, aquaculture and questions related to the fleet and implementation.
I believe that this report has successfully brought together the most important points and, furthermore, that it carries sufficient political weight to enable the fisheries sector to remain viable and sustainable, both financially and from the environmental point of view.
They will establish the overarching framework for the delivery of EU regional policy for the full seven years of the next financial perspective.
The Committee on Regional Development has produced excellent reports on the draft regulations.
I wish to thank Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Andria, Mr Fava, Mr Olbrycht and Mr Silva Peneda for their hard work and helpful remarks in introducing the debate this afternoon.
I know from meetings that Commissioner Hübner takes a very practical view of these issues and I look forward to hearing her contribution and that of Commissioner Špidla.
I know that Parliament will also be discussing the draft regulation for the European Fisheries Fund during this debate.
As the UK Minister responsible for regional policy, I cannot comment on this important dossier, but I will promise to pass on the comments to my colleague, Ben Bradshaw, the UK Minister for fisheries policy, and he will be visiting Parliament next week to engage in discussions on this important subject.
But, as I have acknowledged, these negotiations are closely linked with the wider discussions on the future financing of the Union.
We need to reach agreement on the EC budget before these regulations can be finalised.
We share the concerns of the European Parliament and many Member States – in particular the new Member States – about any delay in reaching agreement on the budget and the importance of ensuring there is a prompt start to the next cycle of structural funds programmes.
As Tony Blair said to you less than two weeks ago, we fully recognise the importance of reaching an agreement on the budget and we will make as much progress as possible during our Presidency.
Those views will be very important in building a consensus between our two institutions and we will examine them very carefully in the Council as we move towards political agreement.
The Commission appreciates the farsighted ways in which you have helped to bring into being and develop a policy which, besides its economic objectives, forms such a secure link between the European Union and its citizens.
Whilst expressing the Commission’s recognition of your role and its gratitude, may I, on a more personal note, thank the four rapporteurs – Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Fava, Mr Andria and Mr Olbrycht – for the outstanding quality of their reports.
As I said, we are discussing the future of cohesion policy until 2013.
In the years between 2007 and 2013 cohesion policy can build on its present results, but we have to look and move forward.
We can secure a growth dividend by involving regions more closely in our economic and social modernisation.
This is what is at stake in the present discussions on cohesion policy.
We have a common view on the architecture of the policy, one built around the objectives of regional competitiveness and employment, regional cooperation in a number of forms and of course convergence.
We also have a common view on the essential role of cohesion policy in the drive towards a modern knowledge-based economy.
That is why it is important for the Council to adopt strategic orientations for the Union as a whole and why we propose that Member States should draw up national strategies for the pursuit of these objectives.
The Commission and Parliament also have a common view on the importance of territorial cohesion or, to put it another way, the understanding that economic modernisation will benefit if special attention is paid to particular places in Europe.
Your resolution suggested that cohesion policy will be strengthened by better cooperation between ERDF co-financed operations and other Community policies.
You have proposed that the interoperability between the regional and social funds be increased from 5% to 10%.
This gives greater flexibility to regional and national programme managers and thus ensures a close link in some cases between investment and training.
The Commission believes this to be very useful and accepts the proposal.
In the particular case of Mr&#160;Olbrycht’s report on European grouping for cross-border cooperation, I am pleased to be able to tell you that the Commission accepts most of Parliament’s amendments.
Here I will refer to one or two cases and hope that my explanations of the reasons behind the Commission’s approach will convince the House.
I have also said that this is especially important for the regional competitiveness and employment objective.
In this branch of the policy financial resources are particularly limited and, furthermore, we need to be able to demonstrate the added value to the overall economic situation.
In that light, I am worried by the amendments that seek to enlarge the scope of the policy, especially the regional competitiveness objective.
With regard to VAT, the discussions in the Council and the amendments put forward by honourable Members demonstrate that this part of the Commission’s proposal creates some problems, especially in new Member States.
Much the same is true about housing, although the solution to the problem might not necessitate a change in the Commission’s proposal.
Another area covered by Members’ amendments is the automatic decommitment rule known as the n+2 rule, which will become applicable to the cohesion fund after 2007, since the Commission is proposing to move from the present project approach to the programme approach.
We recognise, however, that the application of this rule for the Cohesion Fund could bring difficulties, especially in the new Member States, as the major focus of this fund is on large infrastructure projects where the investment cycle and public procurement procedures are considerably longer and more complex.
We have to remember the importance of decentralised management and the role of the regions and Member States in defining development strategies.
The Commission needs your full support to ensure that an ambitious cohesion policy to achieve Lisbon and Göteborg objectives can be implemented by 2007.
By choosing to discuss its position on the future shape of cohesion policy now, this Parliament is sending the message that there is no time to lose.
You are signalling that you want to secure a medium-term future for a cohesion policy before the end of the year.
Parliament’s backing has been absolutely crucial to our formulation of a common objective that consists in establishing a legal basis that will enable the European Social Fund to promote the creation of more and better jobs.
The Commission proposals on the reform of the Structural Funds in general, and of the European Social Fund in particular, have a number of underlying principles.
Support will be provided for the European Employment Strategy, since this will allow the European Social Fund to make a direct contribution to achieving the Lisbon goals, as well as for individuals and those from disadvantaged groups.
When implementing the European Social Fund, the Commission will continue to give priority to all groups that have problems finding or staying in employment, irrespective of the cause of these problems.
The social partners should play a leading role in the future European Social Fund, as they have a key part to play in implementing employment policies and in European Social Fund interventions.
The draft regulations already state that NGOs will be consulted on the programming, implementation and monitoring of measures taken under the European Social Fund.
The Commission would stress that NGOs must have access to activities funded under the European Social Fund, particularly in the case of those organisations operating in the field of social inclusion and the fight against discrimination.
The effort the rapporteurs have put into drawing up these reports will doubtless help us to draft an agreement more efficiently, as well as improving the final version of the proposal.
I strongly appreciated the significant amount of work undertaken in order to achieve a timely delivery of Parliament’s opinion, as well as the active involvement of Member States and the fishing sector in this debate.
Despite the large number of proposed amendments, I believe that in substance your proposals are close to ours and I am pleased to note your generous support for our proposal.
This indicates that we have a common understanding that the new fund should serve the purpose of implementing the CFP and aim at achieving sustainable development of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the Community.
It focuses on the attainment of sustainable fisheries in the long term in the interests of fishermen themselves – sustainability in all senses of the word: economic, social and environmental.
Under the Presidency’s stewardship we were able to progress towards a broad consensus with Member States, while taking into account the work that was ongoing in the Committee on Fisheries.
We did not, however, conclude the discussions in the Council on 21 June.
I have expressed my position in the Council, which I wish to reiterate here.
I am not prepared to reopen the debate on aid for the construction of vessels, which was phased out during the common fisheries policy reform.
To do so in the context of over-capacity and over-fishing would undermine our determination to achieve sustainable fisheries and our commitment at international level not to subsidise the increase in fleet capacity.
I am convinced that specific attention to small-scale fisheries is justified because of their important role in the economic and social fabric of fishing communities, their territorial dimension and the competition they often face from other segments of the fleet.
This could take place in particular in the framework of coastal management plans aimed at the sustainable development of fisheries for the benefit of local communities.
In the time allocated to me, there is so much to say that I have decided to select a number of points which, with the budgetary orthodoxy of this Parliament, apply to all opinions and are relevant to the various reports concerned, both that of my colleague Mr Andria on the Cohesion Fund, and those on the ERDF, ESF and European Fisheries Fund, as well as the general opinion of our fellow Member Mr Hatzidakis on the Regulation laying down general provisions.
I also thank all my fellow Members for the vast amount of work they have undertaken.
The challenges facing Europe are now, more than ever, of critical importance for the development of the European Union’s future competitiveness, for which the Structural Funds represent not only the indispensable financial instruments but also, today, in the current Europe of 25, which we are now building – in this Enlarged Europe – the spearhead for the Union’s budgetary objectives and the essential vector for our ambitions for Europe.
It is true that, during the preparatory discussion on the Structural Funds, based on the Commission’s proposal which focused on the three objectives of convergence, regional competitiveness and employment, and European territorial cooperation, we had no clear indication of the figures contained in the budget.
In connection with two or three key matters, I should therefore just like to stress a few principles based on common sense and simple budgetary orthodoxy, which will enhance the role of the European Parliament as a budgetary authority.
The first is that once these financial perspectives have been approved, the Commission will, firstly, confirm the amounts indicated in the proposal for a regulation or, if applicable and necessary, submit the amended amounts for approval by the European Parliament and the Council to ensure they fall within the ceilings, as the Committee on Budgets is constantly pointing out that they should.
The second point, already referred to on many occasions, debated at length and regularly stressed in Parliament’s Committee on Budgets, is to draw attention to the positive results of applying the N+2 rule and to propose that it should be retained as a matter of principle.
The Regulation laying down General Provisions and the Regulation on the Cohesion Fund stipulate that this N+2 rule should apply to the Cohesion Fund.
I would remind members that the aim of this rule is to encourage the beneficiary Member States to use the funds committed without delay, obliging them to use a degree of discipline in the preparation and financial management of projects.
The time allowed under the N+2 rule will start to run on day 1 of the project’s implementation, not on the first day of scheduling by the Commission, thereby creating the flexibility that will help us in achieving our aims.
If we delayed in reaching agreement, we must realise that the delay in implementing the policies would have serious economic and social consequences for our fellow Europeans.
It is quite incomprehensible, however, that certain principles that have proved their worth and functioned properly to date have been abandoned.
Since I come from a new Member State, Poland, however, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that social housing in the countries of the former Communist bloc mainly consists of prefabricated blocks of flats, which are no longer environmentally friendly, and which in many instances are extremely unsafe.
It would therefore be worth giving some thought to whether it would be a good idea to fund the regeneration of such buildings under the Cohesion Fund, since it is impossible for the necessary number of homes to be completely rebuilt from scratch. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the fact that even while the European Union is experiencing constitutional and budgetary crises, we are debating the nature of the key instruments of European solidarity, namely the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund and the Social Fund.
It was solidarity that provided the foundations for the European project, and it is thanks to a policy of solidarity that the founding states have integrated so rapidly with the poorer countries of our continent.
As Mr&#160;Juncker highlighted in his farewell speech, the policy of solidarity is the most important policy of the united Europe.
Management of water networks should also be financed under the Cohesion Fund, in particular flood prevention programmes and the Natura&#160;2000 network.
I also propose that the present principles governing the eligibility of VAT with regard to funding under the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund should be kept in place.
This is of key importance in terms of experience in benefiting from the Structural Funds. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, when we talk of we must also include in it the contribution by the European Parliament, with the experience and the exceptional, constructive contribution by MEPs such as Mr Hatzidakis, who not only with this report on the proposal for a regulation laying down provisions for the European Structural Funds on which we are to vote, but also with a previous third report and the working paper last December, has contributed to the maintenance and strengthening of economic and social cohesion and is now also calling for specific reference to the territorial cohesion of the European Union.
We welcome the rapporteur's proposal for a balanced Europe-wide polycentric model for sustainable development, with balanced development of the convergence objective and the competitiveness and employment objective regions and with flexible European cooperation.
We note with satisfaction that the Peneda proposal emphasises the mainstreaming of equality between men and women and the abolition of discrimination in all policies, through special actions designed to increase the sustainable participation of women and promote their vocational training and careers, in accordance with the prospects of the Lisbon Strategy.
Finally, we suggest that the regulation we are debating today should not prevent the Council from extending the application of the Cohesion Fund, on an annually-decreasing basis during 2007-2013, to Member States whose wealth exceeds 90% of the European average, not because they have experienced positive developments in their economic growth, but because of the simple statistical effect of the incorporation into the union of new Member States with below average GDP.
Unless we do that, we will be deceiving ourselves. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the report for an opinion on the Regional Development Fund, which I presented to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, was adopted unanimously on three priorities: achievement of the Lisbon objectives, a policy of sustainable full employment and an ambitious policy for people with disabilities.
This dossier goes far beyond social concerns and encompasses the Community’s priorities, and it is likely to become the Union’s dominant policy, ahead of the Common Agricultural Policy, in three areas, namely solidarity, effectiveness and justice.
I therefore agree with fellow Members, like our rapporteur Mr Fava, who propose not including VAT among reimbursable expenses and not reallocating resources that have become subject to automatic release under the N+2 rule.
These policies must be optimised.
Solidarity and effectiveness: effectiveness means pursuing the aims of the Lisbon Agenda and investing in research and the development of employment.
Solidarity, effectiveness and justice: this policy must remain a Community policy, directed at all Member States.
The British Presidency may well be faced with the same situation.
Finally, I would express the hope, certainly shared by our rapporteur Mr Fava, that a consensus may emerge on these reports similar to the one achieved on the Böge report.
In today’s debate, I should like to confine myself to new objective 2 and objective 3, promoting competition, innovation and inter-regional cooperation in Europe, which, in the Commission proposals, amount to a total package of approximately EUR 40 billion, thus also demonstrating that these objectives make a crucial contribution to the Lisbon objectives.
By means of innovation, industry provides the tractive force, while Lisbon determines the course.
Secondly, structural funds should be specifically linked to objective 2 in the research and development budget.
Most of the political groups are divided on the issues of the N+2 rule, VAT and public-private partnerships.
It is important that the aim of simplifying the regulations does not hamper the poorest beneficiaries in their attempts to apply for funds.
It is simply not fair to change the rules of the game now that ten new Member States with lower socio-economic development have joined the Union.
The fact that the initial Commission proposal contained no explicit reference to mainstreaming as an added value means of restoring the balance in the regions was a worrying step backwards.
I therefore express my satisfaction, including on behalf of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, with the manner in which the report has succeeded in reintegrating this aspect and I call on the House to vote in favour.
I would therefore like again to stress the constant importance of the European Structural Funds when problems need to be addressed.
Both in small villages and in the run-down neighbourhoods of major cities, they make Europe visible and tangible for the inhabitants and are for that reason indispensable to Europe’s integration.
This is most apparent in the case of the European Social Fund, which Parliament’s substantial improvements have made into a ‘fund for the little people’, which springs into action where people are at risk of exclusion, gives support to those who have lost out, and inspiration where there is a need for innovation in the creation of jobs.
I would like to respond to what the Council Presidency has said by again emphasising the possibility of creating jobs even in regions that are already regarded as lost causes.
This House’s amendments make the ESF a superb instrument for this purpose.
Its conception runs directly counter to the idea that it is only by means of large-scale investments that competition can be fostered and jobs created.
It intervenes where there is a need for knowledge and the potential for innovation at a regional level, and, as problem areas are no exception in this respect, it is there that it can bring success.
First of all, while the budget looks sizeable at EUR 4 963 million, it represents an increase of only EUR 0.7 billion on the previous budget for a seven-year period from 2007 to 2013.
Secondly, I am disappointed that this report ignores an amendment adopted by the Committee on Regional Development, that 25% of the Community financial contribution should be set aside for Axis 4: the sustainable development of coastal fishing areas.
The statistic is quite startling: 8 000 jobs are lost, on average, every year in direct fishing.
The coastal fishing areas are the most peripheral and are under threat.
If we had to wait until spring next year for the Council to reach an agreement, the Commission would not be able to go ahead with the first payments until 2009, which would be dramatic for the cohesion policy in general and in particular for the new Member States, to whom the United Kingdom has always expressed its commitment.
I believe that the European Parliament’s contributions will be acceptable, in particular the compromises on such sensitive issues as the N+2 rule, VAT or the statistical effect.
The Committee as a whole saw it as important that we should, in a spirit of solidarity, make policy for people in the poorest and most disadvantaged of the regions in an enlarged European Union.
I would be very glad if the majority in this House were to support this compromise amendment and urge them to do just that.
I would ask you, Mr Michael, to carry to Mr Blair the message that, in your country too, there are outstanding examples of the good that European structural policy can do, and we want them to continue to operate even after 1&#160;January 2007. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, like my fellow Members, I want, first of all, in my own name and on behalf of my colleagues in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, to congratulate and thank the rapporteurs who have done an excellent job.
They have worked with characteristic determination, but it was their flexibility and ability to listen that made it possible to reach something of a general consensus.
These Structural Funds are not something abstract.
On this first practical point, I should like to say something about solidarity, as a number of fellow Members have done.
The European Union, on this specific issue, is not just all about fine words, it is about figures – and they are extremely eloquent ones, because around 80% of the Structural Funds, in accordance with the budgetary guidelines, will be devoted to the objective of convergence.
You have said, Mr&#160;Michael, that the Structural Funds were currently the European Union's second largest item of expenditure after the common agricultural policy.
As regards solidarity, I should like to stress that the 25 Member States have all decided together – and Parliament will confirm this – that we are going to devote over 80% of the funds from this leading item of Parliament’s budget to solidarity with the ten new Member States.
This is tangible and concrete proof, in coin of the realm, of our solidarity with the new Member States, which have great need of it and which, I hope, will receive an allocation of considerably more that EUR 300 billion.
Finally, to conclude on a note of hope – but a hope that will certainly be fulfilled – I have no doubt whatsoever that the success we have seen in Ireland, Spain and Portugal will be achieved in the ten new Member States that will benefit from these Funds.
But beyond the Funds themselves, I should also, and above all, stress the use made of them.
I do not have the time to develop this point further, but please allow me to emphasise, in relation to the potential of the Funds, the need to ensure that Member States are aware of all the opportunities we offer, and which are available, for guaranteeing that the Funds are used properly.
To conclude, I should like to direct a remark to you in particular, Mr Michael, as representative of the Presidency, and say, once again quoting a figure that I believe speaks volumes, that if we do not reach agreement on the financial perspectives this autumn, in 2007 the ten new Member States will only receive some EUR 9 billion, whereas with a 2007-2013 policy, a policy of solidarity through the use of the Structural Funds, they will receive EUR 22 billion.
Our group has, for a long time, been campaigning for the Cohesion Fund to be covered by the general directives on the Structural Fund, which would make not only for EU funds to be spent in a more targeted way, for more transparency and greater efficiency, but also for the regions to have more rights to be consulted when identifying programmes and projects, thus putting the partnership principle into practice.
All these courses of action we unreservedly endorse, as well as the Commission’s proposal that a new priority be added to the Cohesion Fund.
I will conclude by wishing both the British Presidency and the previous speakers good luck, in the hope that we will soon have adopted a budget, and will not be irresponsibly endangering the maintenance of the Structural Funds’ programmes. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the existence of a properly funded and proactive European regional policy is an essential prerequisite for the EU to be able to foster economic and social cohesion and to address increasing economic and social disparities.
The Structural and Cohesion Funds are a vital tool, and indeed the only tool in the Community budget geared towards redistribution.
These Funds enable the EU to take action to reduce regional disparities, to promote real convergence, to stimulate sustainable development, growth, production and jobs in the regions, and to redistribute and offset the costs of the internal market in the least-developed regions.
The recent European Council’s failure to reach agreement on the Financial Perspective 2007-2013 is, however one looks at it, a victory for the ‘Letter of the Six’ signatory countries.
The Luxembourg Presidency had proposed a compromise reduction in the Structural Funds envelope of over EUR&#160;30&#160;billion for the period in question, which translates into 0.37% of EU gross domestic product.
Against this backdrop, we have tabled proposals for amendments to the reports before us with a view to addressing these key concerns and to stepping up European social cohesion. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;&#160;The debate on the Hatzidakis report is taking place at a time when the EU is mired in a profound crisis, which was triggered by irresponsible attempts to force the European Constitution on the Member States.
The Constitution is a dead duck, and we have it to thank for the fact that age-old animosities have flared between Member States, and for the fact that they are not even able to agree on the 2007-2013 budget.
Despite this heated atmosphere, however, we regret to say that the Hatzidakis report divides the EU once again into two blocs, namely the old Member States and the new Member States.
The report tells us that those living in the 15&#160;old Member States are best off, and that if they also live on islands, or even better in outermost regions – and particularly if they are inhabitants of regions affected by the statistical effect – then they have nothing to worry about.
In order to make it even more difficult for the inexperienced new Member States to obtain funding, the report rules out a more flexible application of the n+2 rule for the Structural Funds, and provides no solution to the problem of VAT and EU cofinanced projects.
On the other hand, however, we impose a senseless obligation on entrepreneurs to remain in regions of the EU where the workforce is excessively expensive, and often accustomed to working a 35-hour week for full wages.
For this reason alone, it is hard to vote in favour of this report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too should like to extend my sincere thanks to all the authors of the reports under discussion.
This debate on the future of the cohesion policy is an important test of the practical application of one of the fundamental values the EU professes to hold, namely solidarity with a view to achieving equal opportunities.
I would remind the House that the aim of the cohesion policy is to support the restructuring and modernisation of those countries that need assistance in order to have any chance of rapidly catching up to the average level of economic development in the European Union.
They are often enormous investment projects, which go beyond the normal time frame of projects financed under the Structural Funds.
As far as VAT is concerned, the experiences of the new Member States are incontrovertible proof that the main barrier to the use of the Structural Funds is the relatively high cost of launching projects.
Excluding VAT from the list of eligible expenses would result in many entities, including local authorities, being unable to afford the enormous costs associated with implementing projects.
I would remind the Members from the old Member States that we should seize this opportunity for solidarity, and give Europe a chance to develop.
In my opinion, if we are to continue adhering to this principle following the recent enlargement, when 10&#160;new Member States joined the EU, it is imperative that we adopt two key proposed amendments during tomorrow’s vote on the Structural Funds.
My fear is that it might become entirely impossible to gain access to EU funding, in particular in the case of smaller applicants from the 10 new and less wealthy Member States.
Secondly, we should remove the automatic decommitment rule, or in other words the n+2 rule, from the guidelines for implementation of the Cohesion Fund, or at the very least provide for greater flexibility during the first few years of the programming period.
Major investment projects in the environment and transport sectors are financed under the Cohesion Fund, and rigorous application of the n+2 rule would pose a serious threat to this financing.
Once again, this is particularly true in the case of the 10&#160;new Member States, which still lack experience in implementing the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group endorses the idea contained in the Fava report that the ERDF should concentrate on investments, infrastructures and further development initiatives in selected areas that are a priority for the Community, as it continues to be the case that the whole Community can expect to derive considerable additional benefit from investments of this kind.
In essence, the report, as adopted by the Committee, adds muscle to those of the Regulation’s provisions that deal with scope, aid and the rules for eligibility of expenditure.
Generally, albeit not entirely or in every single detail, the way the Committee voted reflects the position taken by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and we agree with the Commission and with Mr Fava, the rapporteur, on the substance of the three objectives, these being convergence, regional competitiveness and employment, as well as European territorial cooperation.
The emphasis on the regions most likely to benefit from support, albeit not to the detriment of those affected by the statistical effect, is the logical consequence of Article 160 of the European Communities Treaty.
Perhaps, though, the British Presidency will manage to fit structural policy into the Budget in such a way that no cuts would be possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to begin by echoing the congratulations for the various rapporteurs, and in particular Mr Andria, for his work on the report on the Cohesion Fund and his willingness to engage in the dialogue that has allowed us to reach a consensus on the majority of that report’s content.
We in the Socialist Group believe that this instrument is essential to achieving the objectives of social, economic and territorial cohesion.
The incorporation of actions in the field of sustainable development, transport and the environment make this fund consistent with European cohesion policy.
We must emphasise the explicit reference in this report to disabled people, incorporating the importance of these funds contributing to the removal of architectural obstacles.
The achievements resulting from this instrument have allowed countries such as Spain to reach acceptable levels of development; a sudden and immediate loss would therefore jeopardise that development very significantly.
With regard to the other regulations, we must take account of the existence of other realities which do not exclusively relate to the least-favoured regions, but also the regions suffering from the statistical effect, the natural effect, the outermost regions and regions with low population densities.
A resolute and successful policy in this field must take account of the different realities and not forget that behind them the European citizens are awaiting a response. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to thank the shadow rapporteur for the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, Mr&#160;Hatzidakis, for his excellent levels of cooperation in the debate on the report on the general Regulation.
There are particular problems in the major cities, but they should not be solved using regional policy appropriations or the Union’s budget in general.
There are good grounds, however, for many small and medium-sized cities to receive regional aid, especially if it is a component of broader-scope regional development programmes.
Aspects of regional policy should also be taken into account in any reform of the common agricultural policy.
The present system is absurd, as the largest amounts of aid are paid in those regions where the conditions for production are most favourable.
Therefore, I will be backing all five of the reports with a few amendments to strengthen in particular statistical effect and the partnership principle.
I urge colleagues to unite strongly around these reports, so that the European version of partnership – rather than the British version – prevails.
Mr President, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs, and I welcome in particular the report by Mr Olbrycht on the establishment of a European grouping on territorial cooperation.
I thank the rapporteur not only for his work but also for the way in which he approached it.
The Commission proposal and the amendments made or coordinated by Mr Olbrycht will benefit my country, which has been divided by a north-south border, but it will also benefit all who wish to work more fully with their European neighbours.
Mr Olbrycht has moved to deal with concerns about financial control, existing cooperation arrangements and partnerships that include NGOs and local authorities.
I am particularly pleased with the report's emphasis on social inclusion and sustainable development.
In many countries, not least the UK, regions are a wholly artificial concept.
In Ireland, aquaculture has long been recognised and identified as having a critically important socio-economic contribution to make in our coastal communities.
Finally, we must all ensure that the negative bashing of the common fisheries policy stops and that this fund is presented to the European electorate as something positive; indeed, it must be presented as something the sector can fully and wholeheartedly identify with, something that will allow the development of the sector, something that will contribute to a better future for fisheries, not least for the fishermen and women on the west coast of Ireland whom I represent. &#160;&#160; Article 160 of the Treaty states that the European Regional Development Fund is aimed at helping to correct the largest regional disparities within the Community.
The success of our plans to reduce regional disparities in the European Union depends directly on the success of rural development.
Most regions of Europe are rural regions, and the most backward regions are the most rural of these regions.
Thus, our current endeavours to reduce regional disparities would be put in question by the efforts at downplaying such common agricultural policy whose aim is to attain sustainable prosperity of agriculture and of rural regions.
Ladies and gentlemen, let us constantly bear in mind that the problems of the European Union’s regional development cannot be successfully resolved without ensuring rural development, and that prosperous rural regions will become a&#160;reality only when the farmers prosper.
We are not rivals, ladies and gentlemen. &#160;&#160; The negotiations on these proposals have come at a time when intense debate is under way about the future of the European Union, about where we are heading and how we are going to move forward.
We are no longer just talking about the need for enlargement to be a success, but about what means the European Union has at its disposal to meet external challenges, or, as the representative of the Council said, ‘to deal with the challenges of the 21st century’.
The instruments of regional and cohesion policy must play a key role both in ‘digesting’ enlargement – to adapt Churchill’s expression – and in responding to the challenges.
Now, in this phase, it has emerged that a good few proposals included in these reports ruin newly acceded countries’ chances of utilising these funds.
Moreover, these proposals are included in the reports in a way that changes previous practice, making the conditions less favourable, or ignoring possibilities that relate to improving the competitiveness of a particular region, or to other Lisbon objectives.
We therefore urge both Council and Commission representatives present here today to please ensure that any proposals they put to us later on, and any proposals they support and develop, provide equal opportunities and equal rights for all Member States as regards access to the Structural and Cohesion Funds. &#160;&#160; A decisive experience for the EU-10 in the transformation processes of the last 15 years has been the disappearance of national borders, the fact that borders have become ethereal, and the recognition and implementation of democratic European values such as subsidiarity, solidarity and regionalism.
We are uniting not countries, but regions and citizens.
Regions would like to have common goals, organised mechanisms for cooperation and, in the spirit of subsidiarity, they would like to be able to decide directly on cooperation and on the necessary funds.
This will make Europe more democratic, and more economically efficient too.
The Europe of the Regions is versatile: it is characterised by a variety of levels and forms of local government.
Now, at a time when integration, the common European project, appears to have come to a sudden standstill, representation of local and regional interests is particularly important.
First they would have to apply to their respective central governments for formal consent, and only once they were in possession of the appropriate resolutions and authorisations could the process of providing assistance begin.
My Group has drawn Parliament’s attention to the parallel preparatory work undertaken by the European Council to draft the triple protocol to the Madrid Outline Convention on Euroregional Co-operation Groupings – whose very title reveals the shared goal of the two pieces of legislation.
It represents an instrument of the new generation of European policy, established in light of the constitutional goal of increasing geographical cohesion and based on the substantial experience of those regions that in years gone by developed cross-border cooperation within the framework of Interreg and ran into problems as a result of different national legislation.
Previously competent regions will, with this document, be in a position to implement regional projects of a cross-border nature.
The new directive differs from the previous practice of interregional cooperation in that such cooperation will have to be carried out at a higher level.
As far as resources from European Union funds are concerned, the state remains financially responsible and will remain so when these resources are managed by groupings.
In the case of other resources, the groupings themselves will be responsible.
We therefore applaud everything which helps to achieve a more selective use of fishing equipment, a reduction in environmental impact, support for small and micro fishing enterprises and transparency in the policies adopted.
However, we very much deplore the fact that the Committee on Fisheries again wishes to subsidise the construction and modernisation of new boats, and indeed their export, although these subsidies were cancelled in 2002 because of their incompatibility with the aims of the policy and because of their pernicious effects.
These are the things which are vital for the future of fisheries and we hope that the Council will not give in to the temptation to satisfy certain national lobbies to the detriment of the wider interest. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, allow me to start by thanking all five rapporteurs, especially my honourable friend Mr&#160;Hatzidakis, on the effort which he made in drafting this report.
However, we must not forget that, when we talk of European regional policy, we are talking about the development of a programme designed to promote social and economic cohesion and allow the Union to undertake actions to reduce regional inequalities, promote real cohesion and invigorate employment, while also serving to redistribute and counterbalance the cost of the internal market as regards the less developed regions.
This report, which deals with most aspects of the Union's regional policy, does not, in my opinion, give enough weight to the less developed regions.
Nor must we forget that the new Member States which are suffering from serious geographical inequalities, such as Cyprus and Malta, need more help within the framework of European regional policy.
In order for this need to become reality, we must take account of the imperatives for a sustainable cohesion policy for the whole of the European Union, which will take the form of actions, not statistics contested on numerous counts. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in our market-led economy, large, often international, companies set the tone.
That does not mean, though, that European structural policy could not in certain circumstances contribute to a temporary reduction in regional and local economic bottlenecks, for practical experience demonstrates that it can.
I am particularly thinking in terms of the continued option of including private funds in the calculation of cofinancing, regional and local partners having the necessary influence in drafting and executing plans, and spending available resources within the periods prescribed for this purpose in an effective and efficient manner.
We should therefore leave room at each level to exploit that strength and to use the powerful regions to improve the plight of the weaker ones. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to congratulate the rapporteurs for the fine work carried out.
Article 160 of the Treaty establishing the European Community stipulates that the European Regional Development Fund contributes to correcting the main regional imbalances existing within the Community, by participating in the development and the structural improvement of regions lagging behind in development, as well as in the restructuring of industrial regions in decline.
Regional policy therefore represents a chance and an opportunity that we must not waste and that must be managed in the best way possible.
I refer in particular to the southern regions of Italy, which come under the former Objective 1, now termed the ‘Convergence’ objective, which still have enormous problems and lag seriously behind in many sectors.
Regional policy can genuinely be very useful for those regions, even if a number of mistakes from the past need to be corrected.
These proposals with their almost total focus on the new Member States do not recognise the glaring needs of regions such as mine.
The fund rather should provide for the specific needs of the fisheries sector in each Member State and, if it did, the modernisation and funding of new vessels would be top of the agenda in many areas. &#160;&#160; The European Social Fund is without doubt an important element in the promotion of the European social and employment policy.
I&#160;would like here to express my thanks to our colleague Silva Peneda for his work in preparing this report.
I&#160;wholeheartedly hope these efforts will allow this regulation to eliminate the significant inequalities that exist between the 25 EU Member States in the fields of unemployment, social security, vocational training and education as much as possible.
The European Social Fund is an important instrument in the promotion of social integration and for making employment accessible to various disadvantaged groups, such as people with disabilities.
I&#160;am extremely pleased that in this Parliament we have been able to incorporate the protection of such people into the text of the regulation as a priority.
This ensures added value for Europe and disseminates the best practice that we have learned from labour market policy.
Irrespective of whether they are eventually granted asylum or return home, we must offer them something. &#160;&#160; Mr President, thanks are due to all the rapporteurs for the open and inclusive manner in which they have handled the dossiers and for the extent of the consensus they have built.
My own thanks are particularly due to Mr Hatzidakis for supporting the ALDE amendments to his own report.
Resources allocated to the fund are limited; there are many needs to be met.
The inclusion of safety improvements and of improvements to quality conditions on board vessels, and the inclusion of measures to make vessels more environmentally friendly may be acceptable, particularly for the small-scale coastal sector.
More generally – and I turn to the President-in-Office – I would like to echo colleagues from across the political groups and urge the Council to take very seriously Parliament’s recommendations on the financial perspectives and on structural funding as found in the Berger and Hatzidakis reports.
When its Prime Minister spoke recently to this House, he referred to a ‘union of values, of solidarity between nations and people’.
May this understanding above all inform the debate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the purpose of the European Fisheries Fund should be to implement the common fisheries policy, according to Mr&#160;Borg.
In Scotland, though, a more accurate description of the need would be to compensate for the disastrous effects of the common fisheries policy on our communities and it is a worry that the total fund projected is about the same for 25 as we have had for 15 Member States.
It is a pity that the Presidency did not do likewise, but then that is all too typical of UK governments and how they see fisheries, particularly in Scotland. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, a sword of Damocles hangs over this debate, in the shape of the financial perspectives of the Union, which have a decisive influence on the definition of the EU cohesion policies.
The cohesion policy is the best instrument for reviving the role of political Europe, whose crisis is often caused by neo-liberal choices and the militarisation of the area of freedom, security and justice.
The rapporteurs have carried out some excellent work in drawing up fresh methods of achieving the objectives of the new cohesion policy.
In order to be able to plan the future, however, an assessment also needs to be carried out of the impact that the Structural Funds have had on businesses and the economy in the weak areas of Europe.
Often, in fact, the Structural Funds did not help to improve the quality of life of citizens in underdeveloped areas, but rather were a matter for the mafia, were handed out according to a system of patronage or were utilised in order to cover holes in budgeting, and at times they were not even spent.
Whilst a debate on the amount of funding is necessary, thought must also be given to the quality of spending. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs.
A lot has been said about cohesion and the balanced development of Europe.
If such development is to become reality, however, appropriate decisions must be taken regarding the Cohesion Fund, the Structural Funds, the Social Fund and cross-border cooperation.
We should take part in just such a game, as this would benefit Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to begin by defending the excellent work and the difficult consensus achieved by the rapporteur, Mr Casa, in the European Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries.
I believe that the report has sensibly introduced more measures than were contained in the Commission's proposal, with a view to providing greater flexibility and thereby enabling the Member States to respond better to their various sectors.
So if we really want mixed companies to be a cornerstone of development cooperation, Commissioner, let us give them assistance from the EFF. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I thank the rapporteurs.
It is disingenuous to say that engine replacement and other forms of modernisation do not increase fishing capacity.
Sustainability is the key to future prosperity and development in the fisheries sector.
In particular, we obtained more attention for the urban dimension.
Emphasis has been placed on the driving force that a good programme of investment and management of funds directly apportioned to the cities can have for the economic and sociocultural revival of the suburbs and surrounding rural areas, as the Commissioner here present also stated today.
Finally, with regard to the issue of disabilities, I have requested that the aims of the ERDF should include a specific commitment to promote measures aimed at removing the architectural barriers in projects financed by the Fund, so as to ensure equal opportunities for accessing the Fund.
With regard to the other issues, particularly the issue of VAT, I believe that they have already been thoroughly discussed previously. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, last year we said 'yes' to the new countries and 'yes' to their financing, but not for this financing to be at the expense of the financing of disadvantaged areas in the old countries.
In 2003, we got EUR 2.6 billion, according to Mrs Hübner, and last year we got 1.4 billion.
This is money which is missing from the market, missing from farmers, missing from production and missing from productivity.
I particularly welcomed Mr Galeote Quecedo’s stress on the importance of cohesion to the future of the European Union.
The Presidency will then maintain close contact with Parliament as we move towards a common position, in order to discuss how best to accommodate your concerns.
Mrs Griesbeck called for agreement but reserved the right to say ‘’.
But turning now to the mainstream of the debate, Parliament has raised a range of questions and issues regarding the size of future structural funds budget, as well as its distribution between the Member States and their regions.
A number of Members, especially Mr&#160;Hatzidakis and Mr Andria, have defended the broad architecture of the Commission’s proposals, which would focus an expanded structural funds budget on three objectives – convergence, competitiveness and cooperation – and have opposed any modification of the distribution of funds between these three priorities.
Mrs&#160;Schroedter emphasised the role of the EU regional policy in ensuring EU solidarity.
For example, Mr&#160;Triantaphyllides argued for a greater focus on the poorer Member States, while Mr Allister suggested that the Commission’s proposals would allocate too much to the new Members.
The Council is also pursuing a debate on the best way to focus and deliver the funds in the next financial perspective so that they make the most efficient contribution to the EU’s regional development; asking a range of questions regarding the Commission’s proposals for the allocation of the funds, for the distribution between the three objectives, on the emphasis placed on convergence funding for richer regions, primarily in the richer Member States and the proposed 50-50 split of funding between the old and new Member States.
Others have questioned aspects of the technical rules for delivering programmes, such as the application of the n+2 rule to the Cohesion Fund, where there was a welcome reference to flexibility on the way that applied, and the treatment of VAT and other expenditure.
We can agree with Mr Silva Peneda and Mrs Krehl on the need to simplify procedures for delivering structural fund programmes.
We can also agree with Mr Harangozó and others on the need to maximise private sector involvement in the programmes.
But we have differing views on some aspects of the Commission’s proposals.
My colleague Alan Johnson will be visiting the Committee on Regional Development on 12 September, and will be happy to discuss these issues further with Members then.
We will keep in close contact with the rapporteurs to discuss matters with them as the Council’s position develops.
I unequivocally support improvement of the financial management of the European Union funds, as well as stronger discipline in project preparation and implementation; however, the application of the n+2 principle to the Cohesion Fund can lead to the directly opposite – hurried project preparation and implementation and an ineffective and wasteful use of European Union taxpayers’ money.
Secondly, I consider that we must seriously evaluate and rework the extension to seven years of the period for aid programmes and conditions contained in the draft regulations, as well as the requirement for relocated businesses to repay the grant of the Structural Fund, which is in blatant contradiction to the single market principles, constitutes an infringement of competition and fundamental freedoms of the European Union.
Thirdly, we must preserve the possibility of financing projects from the private cofinancing of European Union funds, without involving national public funding.
Parliament, as a consequence, must have the ability to transform political ideas into decisive measures.
The reports we are examining today represent an effective answer to the very many issues relating to the cohesion policy and to regional development that emerged in the wake of enlargement.
Statistical criteria alone are not enough to demonstrate the real economic situation of the various European regions lagging behind in development and they are insufficient for providing tangible answers in terms of solidarity to those regions that have still to overcome the hardships due to structural difficulties or to objective situations such as insularity or peripherality.
I should like to stress that the cohesion policy must not be merely an opportunity for stating its decisive importance for achieving European integration and for the genuine involvement of all citizens.
The 0.46% reserved for the cohesion policy under the proposal for a regulation is a modest figure, in view of the large increase in the population eligible for inclusion under the ‘Convergence’ objective following an unprecedented enlargement.
To conclude, I reaffirm the need to overcome the limits of the obsolete model, which focuses primarily on the land, seeking to obtain full acknowledgement of the special nature of maritime cross-border problems. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioners, it seems to me that, logically enough, the proposal by Parliament that is beginning to take shape is more or less in line with the long-term draft budget we presented earlier.
The Social Fund has two overarching tasks which have become more and more important: to bolster the employment strategy and to promote social integration and combat discrimination.
Europe will not be able to compete with India and China, with their social models and with their pay and conditions in the labour market.
In order to cope with the competition from outside, we need everyone – women especially – to participate in the labour market in the future.
It is important for the Social Fund to be able to operate to some extent in conjunction with other funds at local and regional levels.
In conclusion, I agree with Mr&#160;Špidla who said how important it was, in the future too, for partnership and the two sides of industry to play a prominent role in the work of the Social Fund. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to take this opportunity to call most emphatically for a degree of consistency.
When we voted on the Böge report a few weeks ago, we made it a rule that we would not extend the n+2 rule to the Cohesion Fund.
We are now planning to change that.
In the Böge report we decided that if the n+2 rule were extended to the Cohesion Fund, it would become impossible in many instances, especially in the case of the new Member States, to benefit from this Fund when implementing large projects.
Similarly, it would appear that while we are giving money to businesses with one hand, we are taking it away with the other, since we are now introducing the rule that VAT will not be an eligible expense, after so many poor countries and regions have joined the European Union.
I would urge the House to take these concerns seriously, and they are indeed serious concerns, particularly in the case of the new Member States.
The Casa report tries to attach a great deal of importance to balance and respect for the environment and to the proper management of fish stocks.
We cannot send our fishermen out to fish for us with engines which are 20 or 25 years old.
That is why the European Union needs to support this sector as much as it can.
We are opposed to the full application of the n+2 rule to the Cohesion Fund, as in our opinion this could result in the new Member States losing out on substantial amounts of cohesion funding.
Our demands to this effect met with incomprehension on the part of the rapporteur, the coordinator and a number of other Members, and I have to say that I am somewhat disappointed at the outcome of our endeavours.
I would like to thank the Commissioner for her efforts to understand Parliament's position; we hope that she will make every effort to facilitate an agreement which is as urgent as it is necessary.
It will become even more important during the next programming period, since it will act as a tool both for reducing economic differences between regions and for making Europe more competitive on the global market.
Although I very much appreciate the work done by all those involved in formulating Parliament’s position on the drafts, I am disappointed at the lack of interest that has been shown to date in most of the new Member States’ demands and needs.
By way of contrast, a great deal of attention has been paid to the needs of other players, such as the former cohesion countries, and to remote regions and regions affected by the statistical effect.
I find the attitude of Members from the former cohesion countries particularly irksome in this connection, since they have so far snubbed our proposals to keep the current rules in place, even though they themselves benefited from these rules in the past.
I am thinking in particular of the n+3 rule for the Cohesion Fund and of the rule classing VAT as eligible expenditure for non-taxpayers.
I regret to have to say that the majority of concessions made to the new Member States related either to the report on the current Structural Funds Regulation or to the report on the Cohesion Fund.
It could prompt tens of millions of citizens in these countries to ask whether they are really being treated equally, given that they are being denied the benefits of advantageous rules that the old Member States enjoyed for many years.
It is an undisputed fact that cohesion policy is the lever for the development of the European Union.
Cohesion policy has contributed to development and to the creation of jobs, with positive results for the convergence of regions and the Member States of the European Union.
The tools of cohesion, the Structural Funds, bring Europe close to the citizens, contribute towards development and demonstrate in practice the principle of solidarity.
Today, cohesion policy is being called on to help achieve the objectives of the Lisbon and Gothenburg Strategy.
Consequently, what is needed is for there to be no further delay, so that structural policies and the corresponding regulations are brought to a close as quickly as possible during 2005. &#160;&#160; After expressing the obligatory, though heartfelt, congratulations due to our rapporteurs, I would like to focus very specifically on an issue that many speakers have already touched on: the issue of refunding VAT payments.
I would like to raise another point: Union regulations are constantly changing, and we, the representatives of the new Member States, feel that these changes are increasingly to our disadvantage.
If something has worked until now, let it stay, and do not try to push the very poorest regions to the periphery! &#160;&#160; – The two recent no votes on the EU Constitution are a warning from the citizens that Europe must provide a different social model, one that differs markedly from that of a United States of Europe.
The purpose of the European Social Fund, one of Europe’s founding principles, has always, in tandem with cohesion policy, been to help people, and has consequently been the policy that people have identified with most.
Its aim is not to exacerbate exclusion, or somehow to foster discrimination in all its various forms in our society.
This purpose will be our driving force for Europe. &#160;&#160; – Circumstances have conspired to ensure that this debate on the future of economic and social cohesion is taking place at a particularly crucial time for the European project.
If we are to emerge from this crisis, the European Institutions, and in particular the Council, must draw up a regional development policy that is characterised by the kind of vision and solidarity needed to meet the enormous challenges facing the EU.
I view this Presidency with a mixture of apprehension and hope.
We will not fulfil this objective if we do not have the courage to implement the Lisbon Strategy in full.
A strong, revitalised European cohesion policy with adequate financial resources is one of the crucial factors in meeting the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy.
This should be one of the main objectives of European cohesion policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one year ago the European Union enlarged to include 10 new, and mostly poor, Member States.
It is time for the talk of a Europe of equal opportunities and balanced development to finally gain legislative force.
The cohesion policy, of undoubted added value for all parts of Europe, must remain more than ever the instrument of European solidarity, aimed at reducing regional disparities.
I share the rapporteurs’ opposition to any change in the overall architecture of this reform, any re-nationalisation of regional policy or any drastic cutback in Community spending.
The proposal to impose financial sanctions on companies which, after receiving European funds, decide to relocate their businesses has now become indispensable.
Additionally, I thank my colleagues on the Committee on Regional Development for their strong support both for the Special Fund of EUR 1.1 billion for the outermost regions and for the possibility of extending the scope of the ERDF, on an exceptional basis, to finance operating aid to these regions to compensate, in both these cases, for the extra costs due to their remoteness.
Moreover, I ask for full implementation of the requirement set out in Article 299 paragraph 2 of the Treaty, providing for particular treatment for the outermost regions and guaranteeing them access to the Structural Funds, particularly in the case of those regions whose GDP is already in excess of 75% of the Community average.
The Committee on Fisheries has accepted my proposal to enable the financing, through the European Fisheries Fund, of public aid for the renewal and modernisation of the fleet in the outermost regions.
In the majority of the outermost regions, fishing is a very recent business and fish stocks are still abundant.
It would be unthinkable and counterproductive to prevent this type of aid.
I hope the Council will follow the route opened up by the European Parliament on this reform, which is vital and urgent for so many European regions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Community’s regional policy exists just as much for the sake of cohesion among Member States as of cohesion between the different European regions.
Solidarity requires us to direct the bulk of the Funds to the new Member States, but we must also remember that certain regions of the old Member States still need to gain the benefit of the leverage effect produced by the Structural Funds in order to implement projects of structural importance and to consolidate the progress they have made in their development.
I therefore support the Commission’s proposal, because it offers a fair balance between focusing the funds on the poorest regions – and therefore on the new Member States – and giving attention to the poorer regions of the old, wealthier Member States.
To disturb this balance would not only be dangerous for European cohesion, but it could also heighten the phenomenon of European citizens’ disaffection with the European project, because European regional policy is the most visible and best- known policy in our countries.
I therefore wish the Council a rapid and favourable conclusion to the negotiations on the financial perspectives in order to equip regional policy with an adequate budget and to assist the regions which still require help. &#160;&#160; Mr President, cohesion is the key to the social construction in the Europe of the 25, and, as we all share responsibility for this, the new Member States and poorer regions should be able to count on our solidarity.
The structural funds must allow the reconstruction in those new Member States to run as quickly and successfully as possible.
We should not be caught up in self-interest, for that will not do the public in the 15 old Member States any good either, and, quite apart from aid from funds and structural funds, we should also provide access to our countries and ensure no regions are screened off.
I would now like to turn to the European Social Fund, in respect of which Mr Silva Peneda has done such an excellent job.
Funds are being set aside for the Lisbon objectives with a clear focus on the new countries, and this is something I wholeheartedly support.
That comment is in sharp contrast with the opinion of local councils and social organisations in my country, which are opposed to the social exclusion of anyone.
The large city issue is universal.
We must learn and innovate across Europe.
Europe can play a stimulating role not only in directives, but also in this sense, because even the old 15 still have a thing or two to learn. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Structural Funds are an essential example of EU solidarity – solidarity between the richest and the poorest parts of the EU – and I am delighted to see that the Structural Funds have been refocused to concentrate on achieving the Lisbon goals.
In the Hatzidakis report, we are also asking the Member States to take their responsibilities seriously in terms of making sure that the money is spent properly, and we are demanding that the Finance Minister in each Member State signs off the accounts on an annual basis.
I am also pleased to see that there is a reference now to inactivity in helping people who are inactive in the workplace. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have risen to speak in this debate, which relates to the Council regulations on the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, as a representative of a new Member State, Poland.
I would therefore like to start by saying how delighted I am at the fact that the work on these regulations has continued, even though the Council has failed to reach an agreement on the new Financial Perspective for the years 2007-2013.
The fact that these regulations are being prepared a long way in advance of the period during which they will apply will enable the Member States, and in particular the new Member States, to make appropriate preparations in terms of public authority structures, the various types of institutions, beneficiaries of the projects and national legislation.
In view of the limited time available, I would merely like to highlight two issues that are particularly important for the new Member States.
The first is the problem of VAT, or more specifically the problem of classing this tax as an eligible project cost.
In Poland, for example, this would affect the majority of projects, and in such instances VAT would increase the costs of implementing these projects by more than one fifth.
This, in turn, would lead to a reduction in the number of projects submitted, as well as frequent financial problems for beneficiaries.
A group of Members has proposed that a similar solution also be adopted with regard to the European Regional Development Fund, as there is no logical reason why different solutions should be adopted for different funds.
This would allow greater flexibility with regard to this Fund, as well as making it easier to implement large infrastructure projects, especially in the new Member States.
Adopting such a solution would also be in accordance with the provisions relating to this matter in the Böge report on the new Financial Perspective for 2007-2013.
We have very big differences between regions in the EU, especially between new and old Member States.
We cannot, however, rely on the internal economic market alone being able to bridge the gulfs, and that is why we need the Structural Funds.
The new regions should therefore be allocated a larger proportion of the Structural Funds, and the richer countries must have their own regional equalisation policies.
At the same time, the EU countries must also, however, emphasise that growth and research provide scope for regional development.
We also emphasise how important it is for environmental work to be given priority within the Structural Funds.
Finally, I wish to emphasise that, according to the Commission and the European Parliament, there are regions with permanent geographical disadvantages, including sparsely populated and mountainous regions, which also need to be compensated via the Structural Funds, because the geographical conditions do not change over time.
I assume that the European Council will take account of this too in the future financial perspective. &#160;&#160; This is the first time that urban public transport has figured in the regulations on the Cohesion Funds as an objective to be supported.
In the case of urban fixed-rail public transport systems, in addition to the track we need to include the vehicles or, to use the technical terminology, as in my proposed amendment, the so-called rolling stock.
We are saying that it is vital to develop route infrastructure and vehicles together in order to achieve results; the two are inseparable.
We are striving to reduce congestion by making public transport in our cities as attractive as possible.
In some regions, the towns have a crucial role and are a major wellspring of cohesion.
It will be impossible to ask our businesses for competitiveness and environment protection technology if we only support micro and small enterprises.
I now turn to the issue of modernising fishing vessels.
Additionally, I wish to stress the importance of the idea of strengthening some of the measures contained therein. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his work of synthesis, which has been demonstrated by the compromise amendments supported by all of the political groups.
Two more controversial points, the renovation and modernisation of vessels and engines and mixed companies as an alternative to scrapping, have been saved in a positive manner, as a result of a good willingness to negotiate.
We have the obligation to keep fisheries activity alive and well in the European Union, guaranteeing decent salaries and conditions for workers in the sector and preserving resources, but we also have the obligation, Commissioner, to save lives at sea.
My region, Galicia, knows a lot about this, since over the last two years many of its people have been lost at sea as a result of construction problems, structural problems involving vessels.
We cannot allow this to carry on and we must continue to support the renovation of the fleet. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to make two specific and brief comments in the two minutes that are allocated to me.
Hence this appeal for a really decentralised policy, because it is invariably the regional policy makers who really know what measures are needed to boost the local economy with the future in mind.
Finally, we unreservedly support Amendments 124 and 126 about VAT.
Yet I must also mention what, to my mind, are the major omissions in your proposal, namely the Natura 2000 network and its presence on the oceans, and the undertakings made by the Commission as regards the Convention for the protection of the marine environment of the North-East Atlantic (OSPAR Convention).
Glad though I am that the social partners are to be involved in devising and implementing projects, and that we are, together, endeavouring to improve the exchange of best practices, I do repudiate the Commission’s ideas about separate ESF projects for convergence on the one hand and regional competitiveness on the other.
The consequence of this would be that many projects would go under for lack of money.
Although financial instruments and the rules under which they operate still vary, our long-term objective must be to have a policy that applies to the EU as a whole.
We all have to consider how, in future, we may foster closer cooperation between the various funds and policy areas and thereby arrive at a generally coherent policy.
Few, if any, of these additional tasks are being performed to their fullest extent, and so the Community needs to intervene in this area if we are to have an overarching structural policy.
I would add that, in future, for the sake of policy coherence, competition policy, which imposes limits on aid, will need to be brought much more into line with structural policy than hitherto. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their reports and for the great deal of work they put into preparing them.
The future reform of structural funding will bring about many changes to regions within the original 15 Member States.
While we understand the needs and requirements of many in the ten new Member States, it is of little comfort to those who will lose out substantially.
However, in the last 30 years we have suffered the scourge of terrorism, when our towns, cities and villages were bombed to pieces.
Commissioner, you recently visited Northern Ireland and came to Belfast.
I would like to thank all of you for this inspiring debate.
I have been listening carefully to your arguments and I am absolutely convinced that, as we continue our dialogue and cooperation through the consecutive stages of the legislative process, the Commission will be able to accommodate many of your concerns and that it will be to the benefit of our proposals.
My second comment is on an issue quite dear to my heart and that is private capital participation in the financing of cohesion programmes.
The Commission would certainly like to see Member States making use of public-private partnership in the implementation of the cohesion policy and I can tell you that the original proposal has been modified in order to allow Member States to define the co-financing rate at programme and not priority level.
I shall finish by emphasising what unites this House and the Commission, not what divides us.
I am sure that the Commission and Parliament are both convinced that the Union’s cohesion policy, whilst focusing on the poorest and responding to their needs, must apply to every region of Europe.
The solidarity expressed by this policy was vital for the harmonious development of the Union in the past and it should remain so in the future.
I believe both Parliament and the Commission are convinced that a vibrant and adequately resourced cohesion policy can make an essential contribution to the modernisation of the Union’s economy by helping it to achieve the Lisbon goals and benefit from the globalisation of markets.
In conclusion, the construction and further development of this policy is our common task and the Commission has drawn strength at every step of the way from the support, both intellectual and political, of this Parliament.
I commit myself to continuing the dialogue between our institutions within and beyond the formal procedures.
Together I am sure we can make something which will be of lasting benefit to our citizens and help them improve the quality of their daily lives. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very closely to your observations and comments, and I should like to thank the House once again for these valuable contributions.
I am delighted that the Commission and Parliament have reached agreement on the basic issues, and we are very much behind the House’s efforts to ensure that equality between men and women, and equal opportunities in general, are taken into account in every sphere of the European Social Fund.
Cohesion policy must also promote social inclusion, by means of our common objectives in the fight against exclusion.
Some are horizontal provisions that come under the scope of other regulations, while some overlap with other provisions of either the draft regulation or the present regulation.
Honourable Members, I am delighted that the cooperation between the Commission and Parliament has been so fruitful.
The intended outcome of this cooperation is a guarantee that the European Social Fund will continue to function effectively in the future, while adhering to the growth and employment objectives of the revised Lisbon Strategy.
The principles underlying the European Social Fund in the period from 2007 to 2013 will be cohesion, consolidation and simplification, and it will also be underpinned by a partnership extended to involve all key stakeholders.
With respect to aid for young fishermen operating in small-scale fisheries and wishing to purchase a second-hand fishing vessel, proposals considered by the Council restrict such aid to the purchase of vessels below twelve metres not using towed gears.
Your request to apply this possibility to all vessels requires further examination.
The scope of socio-economic measures has been extended to training and to compensation for fishermen working on board vessels whose activity has been stopped permanently.
We stated in Council that EFF-funded plans put forward following the adoption of emergency measures may also cover real-time closures for reasons of concentration of juveniles or of spawning.
In addition to other provisions on equal opportunities, we have added support for collective actions aimed at networking and the exchange of experience among organisations promoting equal opportunities between men and women.
The Commission cannot accept a proposal that goes against our conservation policy.
Such aid would contribute to maintaining the situation of fleet overcapacity.
The Commission is not prepared to move on this point, which for us remains a fundamental pillar of sustainable fisheries.
However the Commission cannot accept the request to extend aid for the construction of inland fishing vessels, because precaution is also required in inland fishing, where some stocks are reported to be in a bad situation, and given the limits of scientific knowledge in this area.
As you are no doubt aware, these provisions are very much inspired by the proposals for a Regulation on Structural Funds.
For the sake of coherence among Community instruments, we shall await sufficient progress to be made in the negotiations on these proposals. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12&#160;noon.
The Commission is in a position to accept the following Amendments: 4, 8 (2nd part, as from ‘and the creation of…’), 10, 12, 13, 27 (1st part, up to ‘gap between regions’), 60, 65, 73, 74, 80 (1st part: ‘the development of…project development’), 102 (Article 14.1.2 ‘functionally’) and 108.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 (1st part: ‘the cultural …diversification&#160;of’), 9, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 (2nd part, after ‘gap between regions’), 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 61, 62, 63, 64, 66, 67, 69, 70, 71, 72, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80 (2nd part: ‘Articles 8…11’), 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117 (2nd part: ‘implementing …water policy’) 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125 and 126.
The Commission is able to accept the following amendments on condition that they are reworded: The Commission is able to accept Amendments 32 and 117 on condition that they are reworded.
In the case of the last part, ‘promotion …NATURA 2000’, the Commission is able to accept the funding of investments related to Natura 2000, but not that of operating and operational expenses.
The Commission is able to accept Amendment 68 on condition that it is reworded: ‘by supporting urban and rural development and relationships’. - Concerning the Commission’s proposal to establish a European Grouping for Territorial Co-operation I am glad to tell you that the Commission is in a position to accept most of the Parliament’s Amendments. - The Commission can fully accept the following 17 Amendments : 1&#160;-&#160;7, 12, 14&#160;-&#160;16, 23, 25 - 27, 32 and 35. - Another 17 Amendments are acceptable in principle/substance, but subject to rewording (Amendments no 8, 9, 13, 17, 20&#160;-&#160;22, 24, 28&#160;-&#160;31, 33, 34, 38, 39 and 41). - A group of 2 Amendments is only partially acceptable (Amendments no 36 and 37). - Finally there is a small group of 6 Amendments not acceptable to the Commission (Amendments no 10, 18, 40 and 42&#160;-&#160;44).
This is just one example of the way in which Turkey is in the process of improving the position of women.
Turkey’s new legislation comes in for praise in the report on the role of women in political, economic and social life in Turkey by the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality.
Although Turkey has made a start on this, it must persevere.
Yesterday, Commissioner Rehn explained to this House the shape that negotiations with Turkey will take.
I am pleased that he added that women’s rights will be a key priority and that they will be a core issue in the annual progress report on Turkey.
For example, in response to earlier discussions in Turkey about this report, it has already been decided to set up a women’s rights committee in the Turkish parliament, and the government has already committed to building more relief centres for female victims of violence.
A large majority of Turkish women’s rights organisations support the findings in my report.
In this House too, the report met with wide support during the vote in the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality.
I am indebted to all those who have worked on this report.
In particular, I would like to thank the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the excellent cooperation in the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality.
Needless to say, wide support for the report does not mean that we see eye to eye on everything.
In addition, the European Court of Human Rights recently decided that Turkey, with this ban, is not flouting women’s rights; each country is entitled to adopt its own policy on religious symbols.
Turkey should therefore find a sensible solution of its own to the issue surrounding the headscarf.
I would thank you in advance for your help and for your attention and look forward to your contributions during this debate. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was here two and a half hours ago, and it is annoying that once again there is a quite unreasonable delay before we can start this debate, especially as it is such an important issue.
I hope that the Bureau might reflect on this and also do something about it for the future.
I welcome this opportunity to discuss women’s rights in Turkey on the basis of Mrs Bozkurt’s excellent report at a particularly important moment in EU-Turkey relations.
It states that the Union expects Turkey to sustain the process of reform and ensure its determined implementation to respect fully the rule of law and human rights in all walks of life and in all corners of the country.
I have said that in the negotiations with Turkey the journey is at least as important as the destination, but to have a meaningful journey you need a destination and it is precisely the prospect of EU accession that provides Turkey with such an aim and gives the European Union credible leverage to influence issues such as women’s rights in Turkey.
This is the secret of the success of our enlargement policy and let us not forget this secret.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report.
I welcome in particular the report’s focus on promoting women’s participation in the workforce, increasing the representation of women in decision-making positions and combating domestic violence against women, and especially the need for more shelters for the victims of violence.
I share the rapporteur’s appreciation of the Turkish Government’s efforts to introduce constitutional and legislative reforms, for instance the penal code, which addresses the situation of women and promotes gender equality.
All this is included in the new penal code.
Violence against women, including domestic violence, the so-called honour killings, forced marriage, the high incidence of illiteracy among women – all these things are alarming.
Kurdish women are particularly affected by these things.
Honour killings and forced marriages, though, are problems that particularly affect Turkish women who have come to live among us, and, hence affect our society too.
I hope that the resolution that will be adopted with support from all of us will help women’s associations in Turkey to tell it like it is to their political representatives in that country.
All these have resulted in a wide-ranging debate in the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality and a report supported by almost all the groups.
The new penal code entered into force on 1&#160;June.
This is where Turkish women need our help, and, with the aim of getting this House to send a clear message, the women’s organisations have sent us an urgent appeal, begging us to support them with quotas and with best practice, but above all to put it in a resolution.
That, I think, is what we should do.
We cannot, however, propose a mandatory quota system to try to increase women’s participation in Turkish politics without also calling on our own Member States to change their legislation in exactly the same way.
We cannot demand of Turkey more than what we ourselves are prepared to do.
Accordingly, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe tabled Amendment 3.
I have not heard the heads of either of these countries or the European Union express concern about the situation and the restricted participation of women in these countries.
We should address the problem of low numbers of women in political life both in Turkey and the Union, and, indeed, in the selections the Union itself makes.
Finally, I wish to thank the rapporteur, who has done some excellent work.
There is an urgent need for action to address this, and nothing short of quotas will do the job.
The report makes it clear that there is still much to be done, in society and in the economic and political spheres, despite the improvements in the position of women in Turkey, as exemplified by such things as the legislation on honour killings and marital rape.
We, the GUE/NGL Group, see it as important that a political solution be found to the situation in South-Eastern Turkey and that the disadvantaged position of the Kurdish regions become a thing of the past.
That is why one of my contributions to the report is the clause calling on the Turkish Government to cooperate with mayors in these regions in drawing up and promoting targeted programmes on equal opportunities and rights for the women who live there.
An improvement in the position of women in Turkey will represent a great step forward for negotiations on that country’s accession. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I am speaking as the author of the book entitled 'Women Today', a book which has become a bestseller in my country, and I address my honourable female friends.
That is the situation.
The patriarchal structure of the family orders the raping and beating of women.
If we want, at last, to show respect for women anywhere in the world, we cannot vote for this report.
That is the retrogression of women in Turkey. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, polygamy, forced marriages, illiteracy, honour killings, domestic violence, discrimination in politics, and more of the same besides: this report on the role of women in Turkey is, in terms of content, reasonably exhaustive and well-founded, but anyone who follows the political situation in Turkey from close range will have long been aware that the candidate Member State, the so-called ‘secular model state Turkey’ to use Mr Michel’s words, ‘is in a very bad way indeed in terms of human rights’, particularly in terms of women’s rights in an Islamic society.
It is, however, helpful that the rapporteur, a few months before the official start of the accession negotiations, makes us revisit some of the facts.
In fact, if reports were to be presented here on the role of religious minorities, the occupation in Cyprus, the rights of Armenians, and the restriction of freedom of expression of opinion and of assembly in Turkey, then these would not be received with many accolades either.
The situation in Turkey has not improved in any area whatsoever and incidentally, this whole report is in flat contradiction to the optimistic noises we heard last year from Commissioner Verheugen and Mr Prodi when the Commission, completely at odds with the truth, led us to believe that there are only minimal human rights problems left in Turkey, only to give Turkey the green light.
In conclusion, the question is, of course, whether we will have the political courage to draw the only obvious conclusion, which is to Ankara, frankly, that Turkish society is too different in terms of values from our own to admit Turkey to the European Union by the date envisaged, for that is the only sensible lesson we can draw from this report. &#160;&#160; It is not just in Turkey that the situation of women is a yardstick of democratic development.
Practice, however, shows that application of the law in implementing these rights is slow and inconsistent.
The report encourages the Turkish Government to be more consistent in its efforts to change the situation.
Wherever the government is committed, the results are visible.
The aim of the report that has been presented, together with the proposed amendments, is to ensure that the progress made in practice helps to close the often enormous gap between the and the human rights situation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it has certainly been a long and difficult job to collect all the relevant information and data in order to compile such a detailed report concerning the situation of Turkish women in real terms.
Turkey, which has been applying for EU membership and regards itself as a potential candidate, should respect fundamental human rights and the in the fields of human rights and gender equality.
The Turkish Government has proved its strong commitment to European principles and values by creating a new Penalty Law to protect women’s rights.
It should be recalled that we have proposed designating 2006 as the European year of action to combat violence against women.
Turkey should join in with this, both in principle and in real terms through concrete and visible action by taking steps not only against violence but also towards implementing gender equality in other areas.
We strongly believe that the Turkish Government will be embarking upon taking steps towards implementing our recommendations.
I advocate a forthright ‘no’ to the wearing of the headscarf being enforced, but I also want to say ‘no’ to the warped secularism that bans mothers from visiting their children at school. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the report we are debating today tells us that Turkey is not ready to join the European Union and participate in a system of values of Christian origin, and that it does not wish to be ready.
I propose that negotiations should be opened when Turkey becomes similar to Europe, which is likely to be never.
It may even be the case that the increase in violence against women is an expression of the fear and aversion of traditional Turkish society towards European integration.
The Turkish people will not be able to respect us Europeans, who have been brought up in a different spirit and within a different value system, if they cannot respect their own women and national minorities. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, one of the most basic issues by which Turkey's progress towards Europe will be judged over coming years is improvements in protection for human rights.
Within this framework, improvements in the position of women in all sectors in Turkey is of vital importance, especially bearing in mind that gender equality and respect for human rights and, above all, women's rights, are today part of the .
The European Union must stand by Turkey in its efforts to adjust.
The important problem of violence against women, either in the form of crimes of honour or in the form of domestic violence, must be abolished and protected by any government policy.
I will just respond to two or three points made by most of the speakers.
We therefore support, and will reinforce our support for, awareness-building measures to strive for a change in mentality and mindset regarding the practical application of women’s rights and the attitude of the security forces, for instance, in terms of human rights in general.
That will certainly enhance women’s participation and European values of gender equality and women’s rights.
I recall that as a young member of parliament in 1991, together with Mrs Jäätteenmäki, we faced a vote on quotas on the basis of gender equality.
On 3 October, we will start a long and no doubt difficult journey.
It is a very good idea to repeat this exercise every year and thus follow the progress made on women’s rights in Turkey. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0176/2005) by Mrs Niebler, on behalf of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation (COM(2004)0279 C6-0037/2004 2004/0084(COD)). &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Niebler, and the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality for their key report on our proposal for a revised directive.
Explicit use has been made of a number of horizontal provisions relating to occupational social security schemes, and recent case law of the Court of Justice has been incorporated in order to increase legal certainty and clarity.
It is entirely true that the proposal fails to introduce new policies or innovative ideas, but it should be stressed that we are in a unique position in that we are revising a directive on the basis of an interinstitutional agreement.
For a start, various members demanded that the directive should include reference to parental leave, but Mrs Niebler has taken the view that the use of this recasting to bring about such a fundamental change in European law is not opportune.
The fact that rules differ so widely from one Member State to another – with parental leave varying from three months to three years – means that extending the directive to cover it would entail enormous changes and make both in-depth debate and an impact assessment necessary.
It is therefore worth supporting the compromise that we have come up with, according to which the social partners, who are already doing something about this, are urged to review the existing regulations with this in mind.
Mrs Niebler regards it as very important that this should be mentioned, for, if we now reopen the debate on the ‘unisex tariffs’, a highly politically controversial issue, then there is the risk of the recasting directive being lost as a result of our expecting too much of this process of consolidating legislation currently in force.
The same argument holds good in respect of the third issue, namely our call for more pressure to be exerted on the Member States and the social partners to get them to improve matters.
The rapporteur deserves warm congratulations, because she combined the Commission's suggestions for simplification of the codification of older legislation with a broader scope for horizontal policies in basic sectors of European law, such as in the sectors of pay and insurance.
The fundamental right of effective legal assistance and dissuasive sanctions for harassment are also safeguarded.
The different point of view between the revision procedure and the codecision procedure should not lead the Commission into continuing a vendetta between it and Parliament.
The demographic problem of the European Union imposes the granting of equal opportunities to men and women as far as parental leave is concerned, which was decided in a directive between the Commission and the social partners alone.
Inequalities are created at times when women are occupied with underage children or people who require protection.
Community policy aimed at ensuring equal opportunities has been on the Community’s agenda since the start of integration, albeit with variations in content.
It is important to stress that the principle of equal opportunities cannot be narrowed down to employment, because it affects all areas of life.
The directive aims to enable injured parties to assert their legal rights effectively; this is facilitated by the reversal of the burden of proof in cases of discrimination, and by the prohibition of indirect or hidden discrimination.
Let us have specialised institutions for guaranteeing women’s rights both within the government institutional system and outside it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like, first of all, to thank my colleagues on the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality for their helpful and constructive cooperation.
Next, I should like to raise two issues of current interest: firstly, the obligation to comply fully with the legislative sovereignty of Member States; and, secondly, the economic recognition of the work of women in all its forms.
Firstly, to a social Europe, permitting full equality between men and women, but also to a respect for countries’ different cultures.
The Beijing action plan is clear, and the European Union should also comply with it.
However, a directive on the economic value of female work in the non-commercial and informal sector, or non-remunerated work of women in the area of social, inter-generational or professional solidarity would be useful.
I invite all fellow Members to familiarise themselves with the ideas of Nobel Prize-winner Gary Becker, whose studies have accurately assessed the economic value of women’s work in all its forms.
This work is worth full reconsideration, evaluation and quantification in the interests of full economic equality between men and women. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Niebler, on the comprehensive and balanced text she has prepared.
Its main aim is the revision of the terms of the previous directives on equal pay, equal treatment in access to employment, training and promotion, working conditions, occupational social security systems and the prevention of harassment.
I therefore ask the Commission to send a strong signal, firstly by urgently revising and improving Directive 86/613 on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in a self-employed activity, and, secondly, by re-examining Directive 96/34 on parental leave, in order to adapt it to the current situation through the introduction of incentives in the Member States, such as reasonable compensation and statistical recognition of the value of this unpaid work.
Europe must ensure minimum rights for all men and all women and must urgently ensure they are respected in the Member States.
Community legislation up till now has been unable to eliminate this area of inequality.
We need to adopt proper procedures in the Member States.
We regard the inclusion of occupational pensions in this report as indispensable, knowing as we do that women suffer discrimination on the grounds of their gender, for the firm has no idea whether they or their male colleagues will live longer.
Not only is discrimination in occupational pensions incompatible with Article 13 of the Treaty, but also with the principle of equality in the workplace.
Equal opportunity policy is not something one can back out of. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the whole report concerns the very basis of all work on gender equality, namely the right and the opportunity to earn one’s own living.
I wish especially to emphasise three parts of this directive.
We should be concerned here not only with equal treatment for women already established in the labour market but also with non-discrimination when it comes to recruitment and employment conditions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this resolution was intended to increase equal opportunities and improve the situation of women in the job market.
Many of the amendments will help change things for the better, but it would appear that if actual improvements are to be made, we must not only introduce legal standards, but above all change the way we think about women’s role in social and economic life.
Changes in the way we think must begin with&#160;education at school, at home, in the workplace and in all areas of life.
I believe that it is very unfair that the draft omits to mention the significant number of women who are either retired or not receiving a pension.
Unless the aforesaid provisions are included, the directive under discussion will be yet another dead document. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this directive deals with the position of women in the labour market.
A national election is already underway and it has nothing to do with this directive.
According to Article 119 of the Treaty, European law promises women equal rights, and they need to see these put into effect.
Many women Members of this House have made reference to the areas in which they have not been, and to the need for awareness to be raised of the direct and indirect discrimination that goes on.
I hope that, tomorrow, we will be able to get what we want and send women in the EU the message that we are still the engine that moves women’s rights forward in Europe. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, problems relating to reconciling the work-life balance have become part of modern-day life.
One of the reasons for women’s unequal status in the workplace is that employers are wary of conflicts of interest between work and family responsibilities.
The average wage for women in the Czech Republic is currently 19% lower than that for men.
It is also a proven fact that women themselves often ask for lower wages in interviews than men applying for the same job, which in itself indicates women’s lack of self-confidence in employment relations.
It therefore follows that the promotion of equal rights for women and men should not merely be a matter of adopting various directives and laws.
I should like to start by emphasising that an opportunity is available to us to adopt this crucial directive without delay.
The Commission can readily accept a significant number of them, and indeed we believe that they are also consistent with the Council’s position as set out in its general approach of 7&#160;December&#160;2004.
They go a long way towards improving Community legislation in this field and making it more accessible.
Secondly, the Commission cannot agree to the obligation incumbent upon Member States to support certain measures in the framework of social dialogue being turned into an obligation to guarantee certain outcomes of this dialogue, in line with the amendments to Articles&#160;24 and 27.
It would be hard to square these amendments with the principle of social partners’ autonomy.
I should also like to remind the House that corresponding provisions were included in Directive 2002/73/EC, following lengthy negotiations with Parliament and the Council.
The new Article&#160;28(b), which proposes a review clause for the Parental Leave Directive, is unacceptable because this Directive does not fall within the scope of the present revision.
A clause to this effect would be difficult to reconcile with the relevant provisions in the Parental Leave Directive and with those in the European-level framework agreement between the social partners, upon which the Directive is based.
What is more, problems would arise regarding the compatibility of this amendment with the autonomy of social partners and their role, as enshrined in Articles 138 and 139 of the Treaty.
Finally, the Commission cannot accept the amendments to Article&#160;8 that are aimed at prohibiting the use of gender as a factor when calculating insurance premiums and benefits for employee insurance schemes.
The Commission can accept in full Amendments 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 27, 28, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 64, 65, 66, 68, 69, 70, 74, 75, 77, 78, 79, 80, 82, 83, 85, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 96, 101, 106, 107, 108 and 109.
In the proposal from the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, there are two essential elements – parental leave and occupational pensions – that actually constituted the core of the proposal, and you have rejected them.
Your response to occupational pensions was along the lines of ‘yes, that is a very important issue, and we will take it up at some point’.
How we reach our conclusion is still an open question, however, and it would be inappropriate to go into any more detail on the matter. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The first objective is that of predetermining the solutions and therefore of guaranteeing legal certainty to the citizens and to the economic operators that are victims of torts.
The second objective is that of facilitating the resolution of disputes before the courts and encouraging mutual recognition of the decisions made by the judges.
We decided to adopt such an approach, because it is the most widespread solution in the Member States’ legal systems and, in our opinion, the solution that provides the best balance between the parties.
I believe that the general rule does not always allow an appropriate balance to be achieved in these particular issues, for which special provisions are needed.
The measure provides for a certain degree of flexibility for judges, in order to allow them to take account of exceptional circumstances.
Such flexibility, however, has to be limited, in order to avoid compromising the general objective, or rather legal certainty.
On the other hand, I fully agree with the solution reached by the rapporteur on sensitive issues, such as press defamation and the link between international private law and the internal market.
They are two extremely delicate sectors and I believe that the compromise reached is satisfactory.
Finally, with reference to traffic accidents, I should like to congratulate Mrs&#160;Wallis once again on having thoroughly studied this issue, which is of great practical importance for citizens.
We now have a potential roadmap for litigation and access to justice in the internal market, building on the structures of Brussels I in relation to the jurisdiction of our courts.
The court and parties should – or must – consider this issue, otherwise we are all wasting our time here.
I personally share their view but have always felt that we would have to go further to respect the media’s concerns about freedom of expression.
I thank everyone in the Legal Affairs Committee and the LIBE Committee who have supported our work on this report and express my considerable gratitude to our secretariat on legal affairs who have helped us by carrying out extensive research and making efforts towards producing a report that I believe we can be proud of as a committee. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to join the Commissioner in expressing my sincere thanks to Mrs Wallis for her extremely perceptive report, and for having brought about compromises on many difficult issues.
It is for this reason that all the comments submitted by both the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and, above all, the Committee on Legal Affairs, are absolutely key.
Given the short timeframe, and above all in view of its competences, the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs concentrated primarily on Article 6 of the regulation, which indicates the law applicable in situations where a person’s honour and reputation are violated, or where a person or company is defamed by media publications.
One of them has already had light shed on it in this debate: the familiar case of the road traffic accident, which needs to be properly taken forward and resolved.
We can see that economic mobility and citizens’ mobility have increased with internal market integration, and consequently issues relating to compensation obligations in this area have become an everyday occurrence, and may in fact include a number of international components.
This is a matter of utmost importance from the point of view of businesses, as uniform legislation guarantees them legal certainty, predictability and consistency.
My group has decided to abstain in the event that this aspect of Mrs&#160;Wallis’s report is adopted.
To conclude, in confirming my appreciation of the first compromise reached and voted on by the Committee on Legal Affairs, I must, however, admit to having some doubts about the second proposed change, that is, Amendments 56 and 57. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The Commission also wishes to clarify once again that the passengers concerned could not be identified on the basis of passenger name record – PNR – data.
That instrument does not cover flights overflying the United States, but only flights from and to the United States.
The Commission will be particularly attentive to any circumvention of the agreement and will raise this issue in the framework of the joint review.
The Commission wishes to underline that there is no current requirement for air carriers to provide the US with API data on passengers for over-flights.
The European Union has a rigorous policy on aviation security, but that does not include a no-fly list.
For example, the early and effective forwarding to airlines of an up-to-date no-fly list is an essential aspect.
The chief privacy officer has agreed to receive and handle in an expedited manner cases lodged by data protection authorities in the European Union on behalf of citizens who consider that their complaints have not been satisfactorily addressed by the Department of Homeland Security.
The joint review will take place after the summer break, presumably in September.
Finally, national data protection authorities will be part of the Commission-led team conducting the joint review.
I think there is a good chance of the agreement between the European Union and the USA producing a result that will not only comply with our provisions on data protection but also give us all less cause to fear terrorist attacks.
The fight against terrorism must preserve a balance between security and individual freedom.
The agreements concerned are disproportionate in relation to their aims.
We cannot automatically treat citizens as if they were all terrorists.
As you have pointed out, Commissioner, a KLM aircraft en route to Mexico was recently turned back at the request of the US.
Commissioner, you mentioned the case of KLM and you reassured us that the way in which the US obtained the data was perfectly legitimate.
The word ‘security’ has been mentioned here a number of times, but I would like to know how many crooks have been caught, how many attacks have been prevented and how many mistakes – false positives – there have been.
The joint review was supposed to take place in May.
During the talks with the United States, the Commission intends to call for clarity, in order to prevent the adoption of unilateral measures that may affect the interests of European citizens, and to demand that such measures are agreed on with the European institutions.
It is with a great deal of satisfaction that I can tell you that the US authorities have recently given their consent for US airlines to exclude citizens of European birth from the planning of secure flights.
A video conference was, however, held a few weeks ago, and the dialogue will continue during the September meeting that I announced previously.
The European Commission has a strong interest in Belarus being a democratic and stable neighbour and hopefully, in the future, being able to benefit fully from the European Neighbourhood Policy.
After the parliamentary elections and the referendum in Belarus last year, which fell significantly short of international standards for democratic elections, in November 2004 the Council of the European Union confirmed the restrictions on ministerial-level contacts with the Belarusian authorities.
At the same time, the European Union sent a very clear message to the population to tell them that we had not forgotten them and that we wanted to enhance contacts with civil society.
This was very important, as it gave us the chance to intensify our coordination, not just amongst the Member States but also with countries like the United States of America and Canada.
One is to assist and support human rights, democratisation, civil society and democratic forces in the strict sense of the word.
Contracting will probably take place over the summer, so that the activities can start before the end of the year.
The second objective is to support the broader needs of the population in related areas.
By broader needs, I mean the TACIS programme that focuses on support for the population itself in different sectors, including good governance, sustainable development, the social sector, education, health, the environment and economic development, and also alleviation of the problems caused by the Chernobyl catastrophe, which figures prominently on our assistance programme.
For instance, we gave it our backing as the winner of the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought in 2004. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, this is in fact Parliament’s fourth resolution on Belarus.
From Parliament’s point of view, the Council is an ally, and the Commission is the enemy, at least as far as a review of current policy on Belarus is concerned.
The message sent out by Javier Solana during his meeting with Condoleezza Rice in Vilnius on the democratic opposition in Belarus is important in political terms.
It believes that change can be brought about in Belarus using existing political mechanisms and instruments.
Change cannot be brought about in this way because these instruments are designed for democratic countries, or countries where the process of democratic transformation has already begun.
It would be impossible to promote the start of democratic transformations in any country in the world by means of the instruments to which the Commissioner refers.
If we were to try to do so, we would risk sacrificing the European Union’s political credibility, as well as running the risk that political declarations would in future no longer be followed by actions.
I would note that projects have been launched in Poland and Lithuania to establish independent radio stations.
These projects were initially in competition with each other, but are now working together.
The Commission has been considering the possibility of such backing for eight months already, and this cannot go on.
This motion for a resolution is concerned with precisely this problem. &#160;&#160; Mr President, what we are doing today amounts to nothing less than describing what could be termed the stagnation of a crisis.
Despite the fact that it is so late, and that we have such a small audience, we should be honest with ourselves and admit that the European Union, by which I mean all of us in this Chamber and the Member States, will be powerless and helpless until we hold talks with Russia on the issue of Belarus.
We hold talks with Russia on various matters, the most popular of which are gas and various profitable interests, but we have not asked Russia for its real opinion on the situation in Belarus.
It is very convenient for Russia and for President Putin for there to be a country that they can look down on in that part of Europe, and for there to be a regime that can be seen as the black sheep of Europe.
Lukashenko and his exploits are tolerated and subsidised by means of cheap gas and oil, and the European Union agrees to it.
That really would be the end. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, you gave a very lively description of the current situation in Belarus.
You mention a long list of programmes that are under way.
As is well known, Tacis has many resources for solving environmental problems and resolving issues of border surveillance.
We have a responsibility, and I think you should explain to us how, in practical terms, you will go about matters. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in recent weeks the Lukashenko regime has made yet another addition to its list of dubious practices.
It has started playing the nationalist card against the Polish community in Belarus, even though the latter has lived in the country since time immemorial.
The Union of Poles in Belarus has been persecuted ever since a new democratic leadership was elected, despite the fact that the organisation stays well out of domestic politics in Belarus.
If you continue to act as you have done in the past, you will do nothing but create further areas of conflict between Parliament and the Commission.
The launch of independent radio broadcasts currently depends purely on the goodwill of the European Commission.
Support it and carry it out, so that Belarus does not become a totalitarian state. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Commissioner does not need any of us to tell her what is going on in Belarus.
Rules are a means to an end, not an end in themselves.
We would all like to establish concrete commitments with regard to the radio station project, direct assistance for the families of victims of the regime – they are in dire straits – and thirdly and most importantly, a concrete, realistic timetable.
I understand what you mean when you refer to a timetable which will begin, hopefully, after the summer and continue for the foreseeable future, but we should have a concrete timetable of specific events over the next 12 months. &#160;&#160; The European Humanities University which was closed in Minsk a year ago was recently reborn in Vilnius.
Historically, the universities of Europe were the forerunners of the European Union.
We also derive joy from the efforts of the Republic of Lithuania, which are aimed at spreading democracy, freedom of thought and human rights through education, by preparing a trained generation for a new country, one which is a neighbour of the European Union, but still in the grip of a dictatorship.
Therefore, we address the European Commission, the Member States of the European Union and urge you to follow the example of donors in Europe and the United States of America and to support this university in every possible way.
We are sure that this is how we will really broaden the realm of freedom, in which a nation's freedom, solidarity and cooperation serves a person's dignity our own dignity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have a long-standing interest in Belarus and I have never advocated completely cutting off contact with the Belarus authorities in areas of mutual concern such as people trafficking and trade matters.
The judiciary is far from independent and does not question the campaign of Deputy Attorney General Paval Radzivonaw as the principal architect of the crackdown on newspapers such as and .
The criminal conviction of opposition figures such as Mikhail Marinich is further evidence of this.
In terms of media freedom, Belarus is now on a par with some of the world’s pariah regimes, such as Cuba, Burma, North Korea and Iran.
The EU and the USA stand together in condemning this brutal regime and imposing smart sanctions on officials of the regime.
It is very difficult for me to go against the financial rules, which is why it takes a lot of time.
This has to be done according to the rules, and the rules are very difficult and strict.
I am always flexible and open.
I will look into the matter, but it takes a long time.
It can take months to get things in place, but we will go in the right direction.
We started to work with a few Member States and with many NGOs, but the Council is not responsible for implementation.
It is also untrue to say that we are not communicating with Russia on this issue.
We have been working with our Polish and Lithuanian friends, and we will also work a lot with Ukrainians, as they have better access than us.
This is the reality of the situation but I cannot give you any more information at this stage.
The debate is closed.
I would like to express my satisfaction and that of my Committee with the approval of the GSP Regulation in April, although it is regrettable that it was not adopted on the scheduled date so that it could benefit the countries affected by the tsunami.
We are therefore keen and prepared, Commissioner, to consult our respective agendas with a view to establishing sensible relations with you involving dialogue, debate and control.
With regard to increasing flexibility, we believe that to allow regional cumulation amongst countries of the same region will promote economic integration amongst them, which is consistent with our fundamental philosophy and also may have beneficial effects.
The Commission considers that formal simplification could be achieved by placing the current numerous and complex rules for determining the origin of products that are not wholly obtained in a country by a single, across-the-board method based on value criteria.
That method also offers the flexibility, through the setting of the value threshold, to adjust the origin requirements according to the desired results in terms of market access and development for beneficiary countries.
It would apply both for determining what sufficient processing is when materials not originating in a country or in a cumulation zone are used, and for allocating origin, but in the context of cumulation, using different value thresholds.
Let me take the opportunity to address your second question.
The need for relaxation has, taking into account my preliminary remarks, to be considered against its desired effect, not only in terms of growth of exports under the GSP, but mainly on the actual development of the beneficiary countries.
In that context the criteria to be taken into account in order to define the value thresholds lie in the impact of the new rules on development.
The study will help in defining the criteria and in verifying whether a value-added method with the appropriate thresholds for both sufficient processing and cumulation is actually in line with the principles of simplification and development-friendliness.
Should this study demonstrate that the value-added approach would not deliver the expected results for certain sectors, the Commission will adopt another approach to better achieve these objectives.
With regard to the definition of thresholds, that will be part of the process of drawing up and adopting the Commission regulation to amend GSP rules of origin.
Expanding sourcing possibilities to all developing countries would result in denying the very concept of cumulation, assuming that most of the supplies used by developing countries to manufacture products to be exported to the EU under the GSP come from other developing countries.
The main beneficiaries of such a situation would again be the biggest exporting countries and not the poorest and more vulnerable ones, whose interests would be better served by appropriate value thresholds.
To make an impact, cumulation and its facilitation must remain targeted in groups of countries with mutual and balanced economic interests.
As highlighted by the communication, that does not exclude extending existing cumulation zones or merging existing groups such as ASEAN and SAARC.
However, that must correspond to needs expressed by the groups of countries themselves and it must be supported by the necessary instruments for administrative cooperation in origin matters.
The Commission remains at the disposal of Parliament to keep it informed of the further development of this important file.
The first concerns cumulation.
The second question concerns the use of the Generalised System of Preferences.
It is hoped that readjustments can be made by simplifying the criteria of origin and simplifying administrative procedures, as well as by making the conditions for regional cumulation more flexible.
A risk analysis had been provided for in this respect.
At the same time, the establishment of added value thresholds as the only criterion requires that certain collateral problems be tackled, because this requirement may be very costly for companies in the least-developed countries, which would need sophisticated accounting and auditing systems.
If we relate this criterion to the net cost of production in the different countries in relation to exchange rates, salaries and prices of raw materials, the system may become more complex and may lead to exclusion in the least-developed countries with cheap labour.
We believe that this would be a consistent rule and that, at the same time, it would be necessary to recognise the possibility of bilateral cumulation with the European Union, so that products finished in a beneficiary country that contain materials originating from the Community may also benefit from preferences.
While GSP rules of origin come first, the orientations of the Commission communication will also inspire the definition of the revision of the rules of origin in other arrangements, in particular in the negotiations of the EU economic partnership agreements with the ACP States.
For products to be considered as sufficiently processed in a country on account of regional accumulation, it is none the less necessary to determine in which country of the region the product originates.
This threshold should be lower than the threshold imposed on non-originating inputs in order to favour sourcing in the accumulation zone and, at the same time, high enough to avoid any diversion of preferences.
Reform of the rules of origin is of great importance for improving trade opportunities for the world’s poorest and most vulnerable countries.
As far as some other details of the questions are concerned, we will give a written answer. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
