However, in this case the Union comes very close to infringing the principle of sovereignty of a Member State, and that is why I have opposed this resolution, also bearing in mind that it would have a negative result on the Irish referendum as a bad example of how the sovereignty of the Member States could be treated. (PL) Mr President, I voted against this resolution because Lithuania will be able to deal with the problem on its own.
It would set far too dangerous a precedent. (DE) Mr President, I am an enthusiastic pro-European and advocate of a European constitution as well as the Treaty of Lisbon.
I am also a fighter for human rights.
The Lithuanian law has nothing to do with human rights, but if anything it actually protects the human rights of Lithuanian children rather than violating them.
I therefore consider this resolution to be an ideological disgrace.
The people who should determine this issue in Lithuania are those who are answerable through the democratic mechanisms and procedures of that country.
I am therefore pleased that we have today adopted a cross-party motion for a resolution on the crisis in the dairy farming sector.
The situation must be resolved on a systematic basis, however, through long-term management of the sector, not just through short-term support measures such as subsidies, intervention purchases and support for private storage.
At the same time, we must establish a level playing field for farmers from all Member States, and not just in the diary sector. (DE) Mr President, this proposal from the Commission is essentially to be welcomed and it is a sensible one, at least from an economic and politically realistic point of view.
We also need to take into account the problems of the dairy farmers in Austria and the Alpine region.
However, we know that milk powder and butter have been stockpiled in the intervention stocks.
Here we have a system where consumers pay twice over for higher prices and higher taxes to support a system that did not complain when prices were high.
Finally I would like to urge the Commission to take a leading role in the implementation of the Baltic Sea Strategy in order to ensure that in certain cases the interests of individual Member States do not take precedence over the achievement of common strategy goals. (PL) I voted in favour of this resolution, as the question of energy is an important test of European solidarity.
The Commission also has to look at diversifying energy security in the various EU Member States.
The Commission must clearly state that it will combat the selfish attitudes of Member States which see no danger in a continued dependence on one supplier, such as a reliance on Russia for gas, for example.
The European Union is dependent on energy imports.
Written explanations of vote I voted in favour of the report on a proposal for a Council regulation as regards the 2009 and 2010 intervention periods for butter and skimmed milk powder, because I see these measures as the continuation of a positive measure that has had immediate effects in regulating the excess supply affecting the milk and dairy market.
The drop in prices on the world milk and dairy market over the last 12 months resulted from a general increase in production and a fall in worldwide demand due to the economic and financial crisis.
On the basis of the report by my Italian fellow Member Paolo De Castro, I voted for the proposal for a Council regulation derogating from the regulation on common market organisation (CMO) as regards the 2009 and 2010 intervention periods for butter and skimmed milk powder.
Following 2007's worldwide explosion in the prices of all foodstuffs, and therefore of milk, the last 12 months have seen a collapse in prices.
Due to the fact that there is a serious crisis in the dairy sector I have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (SV) We are fully aware that the situation of dairy farmers is unsustainable.
in writing. - (PL) With regard to the amendments which propose a freeze on milk quotas, I would like to state the following.
Secondly, freezing an increase in the quotas (which is what the amendments to the European Parliament resolution propose) would punish farmers in countries which are currently on the verge of using their quotas.
in writing. - (DE) I agree with the Commission's short-term solution of purchasing butter and milk powder.
in writing. - (DE) The crisis in the dairy sector has also led to a slump in the price of butter and skimmed milk powder.
I welcome the Commission's proposal to continue to subsidise the market and to extend the intervention period up to 28 February 2010.
In my view, we must increase the minimum amount of aid granted to farmers above the limit of EUR 15 000 set by the Commission, as well as allocate an increased budget to promote the dairy and dairy product sector.
in writing. - The fight against terrorism has been high on the agenda of this House.
in writing. - (SV) We Social Democrats have chosen to abstain from the vote on Amendment 1.
The transmission of financial payment messaging data to foreign powers constitutes a serious encroachment on the fundamental rights of our citizens, particularly when the recipient of the data is the United States of America.
in writing. - Tajikistan occupies an important geographical position since it is situated at a key intersection between Europe and Asia and therefore plays an important role in enhancing the stability of the region.
The Central Asia region is very important in economic and political terms for the Community and this agreement will help to consolidate and strengthen the EU's political and economic and trade relations and presence in Tajikistan and Central Asia in general.
I voted against the report on a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Tajikistan because the EU is only interested in that country for its natural resources and its geostrategic position, given that Tajikistan has borders with Afghanistan and China.
in writing. - Members of the European Conservatives and Reformists strongly support equal treatment for all regardless of race, religion, sexuality, or disability, and strongly condemn discrimination in all its forms.
Therefore, we have decided not to support this resolution.
According to the European Union's principles, all forms of discrimination, and in particular discrimination based on sexual orientation, should be eliminated, and therefore the Agency for Fundamental Rights should give an opinion on the law in question and the amendments to it in the light of the EU Treaties and EU law.
in writing. - This is an explanation of vote on behalf of the Fine Gael Delegation to the European Parliament.
in writing. - (PL) I voted against the resolution, which could set a dangerous precedent for the European Union.
The principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of EU Member States is not an absolute principle, but there is nothing happening in Lithuania that would force us to take action.
I voted against this resolution, which sets a dangerous precedent in that the points of view expressed do not abide by the principle of subsidiarity and are a form of intervention in the sovereign actions of the parliament of a Member State, at a time when the law in question has not even entered into force.
I therefore regret that this amendment did not gain the support of the majority of Members of the European Parliament.
in writing. - I voted for this joint resolution because, contrary to the European Commission's prognosis on the substantial increase in the prices of dairy products, the dairy market is witnessing a dramatic deterioration, with falling milk prices despite intervention and export subsidies.
Many EU dairy farmers are now at serious risk and are forced to sell dairy products below their production costs.
in writing. - (DA) We have voted against the proposals for increased agricultural aid to the dairy farming sector.
In connection with the decision in this regard, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament voted against Amendments 16, 17 and 19, because, despite having a favourable content, these amendments were not relevant to the discussion in question.
I voted in favour of the motion for a joint resolution on the crisis in the dairy farming sector since I believe urgent measures are needed to resolve the serious crisis that the sector is experiencing, particularly by stimulating demand so as to restore market balance.
The serious crisis affecting the dairy farming sector makes it urgent to adopt more effective measures for supporting producers and to consider the usefulness of eliminating milk quotas in 2015.
It is vital to adjust milk production to European domestic demand so as to guarantee producers a fair price.
The battle that milk producers have been fighting, which goes beyond their immediate aims - to sell their produce at prices that ensure their survival - also has a broader meaning and importance that have to do with the kind of agriculture that we want in the future.
In addition, consideration should be given to whether an increase in milk quotas might have a positive impact on producer prices.
In this context, I voted for the creation of a EUR 600 million fund in the budget planned by the EU for 2010 to provide assistance to milk producers, who are currently experiencing a serious crisis, unprecedented within their sector, and are wrestling with the laws of supply and demand on the world dairy market.
in writing. - (DE) The dairy sector is currently in the midst of a crisis on an unprecedented scale: producer prices have fallen dramatically, consumer prices have risen and many farms in the EU are fighting for survival.
The Commission has stood by and watched this development for far too long.
In our motion for a resolution, which is supported by nearly all the groups, we make it clear that the decisions made in November 2008 in connection with the health check are not sufficient for the current situation.
That is why I voted in favour of the present resolution.
For months now, dairy producers have been producing at a loss whilst the price of milk has not fallen for consumers: large distributors have been the ones to benefit.
We need to take urgent action: to maintain the quotas principle after 2015; to bring in an immediate reduction in these quotas in order to end the slump in the price of milk; to set prices in line with the costs actually incurred by independent producers; and to establish full transparency in the setting of prices by large distributors.
in writing. - (DE) We saved the banks, because we had to.
The proposal to end the milk quota scheme in 2015, and until then to increase the quota by 1% per year, will, in practical terms, legalise the surpluses which already exist in certain countries, which are being produced above their quotas and which are then exported at very low prices, pushing down market prices, in many countries below the cost of production.
in writing. - (DE) In recent months a situation has developed on the dairy markets that is threatening the existence of many dairy farmers.
These include, first and foremost, the creation of a milk fund to which EUR 600 million will be allocated, measures for increasing demand for dairy products, greater quality control and precise labelling obligations.
With a view to supporting our farmers, it was therefore a foregone conclusion for me to vote in favour of the proposed motion for a resolution and the measures it contains.
In Belgium yesterday this crisis took on a new dimension when over 2 000 producers poured away 3 million litres of milk in Ciney.
That is what led me, in paragraphs 17 and 18, of which I am the author, to ask the Commission for an enquiry to determine whether there are any cartels operating.
On the other hand, I supported Amendment 1, which extends the initiative taken by 16 Member States and calls for a balance to be re-established between the various operators in the sector.
Looking ahead to the vote on the resolution on the crisis in the dairy farming sector, I had tabled and endorsed some amendments for short-term regulation of the dairy market, specifically through a freeze in the increase of quotas, or a temporary reduction in quotas (of 3% to 5%).
However, all these measures have been rejected by the European Parliament.
It is true that in order to reduce these constraints, we need to diversify the forms of our dependence, from the viewpoint both of energy sources and of supplier countries.
In fact, I believe that it is contradictory to want to conduct a centralised energy policy, in the hands of the Commission, and at the same time to hand the European energy sector over to private operators, entailing a rise in prices and a reduction in services, and adversely affecting energy choices.
in writing. - (DE) This joint motion for a resolution on external aspects of energy security contains important options for Europe's future energy policy.
For this reason, despite numerous positive elements in this text, I abstained from voting on the text as a whole in the final vote.
in writing. - We recognise the different concerns of our various allies.
However, from a British perspective, efforts to achieve a more coherent EU approach to energy security do not require the Lisbon Treaty or the extension of European Commission competence.
