First of all we must make better use of the existing tools, but above all we must maintain our commitments in the field of development aid, and, as we know, the initial phase of development will involve an intensification of migration rather than a slow-down.
I would like us next to turn attention properly to the AENEAS programme with a view to reorienting it purely towards the development aspect, and also the programme that will succeed it in 2007, but that is far away!
Furthermore, if we are to establish one new financial instrument, I believe that we should create a fund to guarantee the continuity of microprojects in the poor countries.
I believe that Europe must also look to the potential of migrant communities in the rich countries, in terms of what they can do for the development of their countries of origin.
The Union, but in particular its Member States, must adopt innovative polices such as assuming responsibility for salary differentials for certain migrants who wish to return to their countries of origin, or systems of dual bases for researchers or doctors, within the framework of institutional partnerships amongst research institutes, universities and hospitals.
We are very well aware that, for many Southern countries, migration means the departure of the most skilled and enterprising citizens.
This has dramatic effects for the poor countries, since this phenomenon often has an impact on essential sectors such as health and education.
From this point of view, I am delighted that the Commission is putting forward proposals aimed at dealing with these challenges.
We have an opportunity, since in September the UN will deal with the issue of migration and development for the first time.
I would like to remind you that, for the first time, the Commission has established a very clear link between migration and development.
This policy can thereby contribute to tackling the underlying causes of migration.
That document proposes guidelines which may be used in our relations with the countries of origin in question and which may be eligible for Community financial support.
I consider this particular recommendation in the report, which relates to how to involve migrant populations in the development of countries of origin, to be a very important suggestion.
The report’s position is clear: it relies very much on experience of co-development.
The Commission has very little experience in this field and I am entirely prepared to base the Commission’s considerations on the experiences and examples of best practices developed by certain Member States.
I must also thank you, on behalf of the Commission, for your report’s backing for most of the guidelines contained in the Commission’s communication on migration and development, including the transfer of migrants, the role of migrant populations as factors in the development of countries of origin and the promotion of circular migration and other forms of ‘circulation’ of brains.
I must however stipulate that the Commission can only consider actions in this field in strict accordance with the principle of voluntary agreement on the part of migrants and of the independent nature of that agreement.
In a similar vein, the money transferred by migrants clearly cannot be seen as a replacement for public development aid, which is more necessary than ever, and to the increase in which the European Union is firmly committed.
The Commission has established a very ambitious working programme which it intends to implement in close coordination with the Member States, some of which have also launched their own initiatives.
All of these initiatives are being carried out, or will be carried out, in partnership with the countries of origin.
The second series of issues that I would like briefly to discuss with you – and this will be no surprise to you – is the very special place that Africa has in this reflection.
This point is made very clear in your report.
In its conclusions of last December, the European Council pointed out clearly that the two complementary dimensions of improving the links between migration and development that I have just mentioned must be given a special place in the partnership that we are in the process of building with Africa in the migratory field, at all levels of discussion.
The links between migration and development will therefore be central to the agenda of the Rabat conference that will bring together representatives from Europe, the Maghreb and countries of Central and West Africa next week to discuss the issue of migration.
The links between migration and development are also one of the key elements of the dialogue that the Commission is developing with a number of Sub-Saharan African countries on the basis of Article&#160;13 of the Cotonou Agreement.
The Commission believes that these discussions offer an opportunity to hold a dialogue on the specific support that the Community can give to its African partners to help them better to manage migratory flows and in particular to make better use of the links between migration and development.
It is therefore by creating more channels of communication that the Commission is endeavouring to develop what we intend to be an exemplary partnership with Africa in the field of migration.
I congratulate her for her report and I thank her for taking up the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on behalf of which I am speaking today, in particular noting that the link between immigration and development is an integral part of the foreign policy agenda of the European Union.
It has been so from the time that the Barcelona Process was instituted, but it has continued in all other issues of our relations with the countries of origin and transit.
It is very important to tackle the issue of immigration, to manage migratory flows when we achieve the understanding and the cooperation of the countries of origin and transit.
We are not aiming at the brain-drain that they are so afraid of; we do not talk only about illegal immigration, but we know how to take best advantage of immigration in view of our ageing population and the need that lies ahead.
However, I do not believe that we need to stop this process, but strive for reciprocal benefits.
Thus, I would like to stress that, in my opinion, it is very important to introduce a clear and as simple as possible procedure for recognising qualifications.
The phenomenon that is migration is as old as mankind itself.
Female migrants and refugees live with the enormous risk of becoming the victims of sexual exploitation and violence.
In September, for the first time, the UN would like to deal with the theme of migration and development in the context of a high level dialogue.
Meanwhile, thousands of illegal immigrants are crossing our borders and in certain countries this happens on a daily basis.
There is no doubt that we can do many things, as Mrs&#160;Carlotti’s report indicates.
I believe that the time has come to act and leave statements of intent for later and for less serious issues. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, migration is an international phenomenon.
We believe that the security arrangements, which are often anti-immigrant or intended to curtail immigration, must be paid for from their own independent budget, rather than by stealing from development funds.
The issues here are education, health care, and Mrs&#160;Carlotti’s practical and good proposals; the migrants who are driven from one country to another, those who are refugees within their own country, ECHO, the coordination of UNCHR, NGOs, regional organisations, preventing ethnic groups from being persecuted or isolated, whether this be in Asia, Latin America or Africa; uprooted populations, vulnerable groups, among them primarily women and children.
We must look after our own interests, but must not arrange our own affairs or pay for this at the cost of poor countries in unstable regions, for that affects the fundamental causes of poverty.
From India to Bangladesh, from Bolivia to Ecuador, the new instrument can be the means whereby Europe can make a good contribution.
On the one hand, the European Union is supporting the growth of qualified labour forces in developing countries by implementing development policy and providing developing countries with over 55 per cent of world aid.
Very often, these workers acquired their qualifications in Europe or with European Union funds.
Agreements with third countries and the establishment of migration policy, above all in third countries, is one of the prerequisites of the economic growth of developing countries.
During this part-session we have dealt with a number of reports on issues such as asylum, immigration and development which in some cases take us in contradictory directions.
In France, the government's current policy is aimed at expulsion and at sending illegal immigrants home; just today, in front of the European Parliament, there is a demonstration in support of school children threatened with expulsion.
Subsidiarity is therefore much too important in this field.
We therefore need coherence and a global approach, so that we can link immigration to sustainable development issues and not treat it as simply a security issue. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, two points of view are always wrestled with as regards the topic of migration.
In view of the growing and current dramas associated with migration, the EU debate is dominated, unfortunately, by Commissioner Frattini and the Ministers for the Interior.
Your call for controlled migration should not mean though that in future, for instance, the EU turns Lampedusa into Ellis Island or perhaps something even more terrible, namely that there are combined EU refugee and recruitment camps in the Libyan desert and which also therefore operate outside EU legal standards.
Naturally, I also regret the lack of proposals for resolving the situation of migrants who live outside official legal status in the EU.
The strategies proposed, which are primarily designed to facilitate financial transactions and the transfer of pension rights, constitute two measures that are feasible in practice and that would have a significant impact on the precarious resources of many immigrants.
However, the proposal to channel the income generated into measures designed to promote development in the country of origin also seems extremely important and reasonable to me.
If it is true, as the report claims, that better management of migration promotes development, then it is in fact also true that we should ensure that the most competent human resources do at any rate find attractive opportunities in their countries of origin and are encouraged to take the resources they have accumulated, together with their wealth of experience, back to those countries, for the benefit of their communities.
With this in mind, we therefore need to pay extremely close attention to the management of any funds that may be generated, so that the efforts of individuals and of the international community are not wasted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as well as thanking Mrs&#160;Carlotti for her thorough work, I would like to draw your attention to three points.
However, differences in levels of economic development and political models impede the free movement of people.
If, within the framework of the WTO, we cannot agree to the free movement of goods, it seems that agreeing to the free movement of people is an even more difficult task, although these two issues are worlds apart.
The European Union, as a destination for migrants, will be increasingly obliged to draw up solutions to this issue.
Finally, I would just like to add that the problem of mainly economic immigration does not only affect France, Sweden or Malta.
There is no doubt that migration brings benefits, but the benefits of international migration, not just for migrants but also for the societies receiving them, will only be possible if we maintain respect for the rights of workers, which are the universal guarantee against exploitation.
Let us guarantee respect for the rights of migrants. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the fact that the European Parliament is discussing development in relation to the question of migration shows that we are open to the problems of developing countries.
Finally, the issue of migration and development significantly affects relations between the European Union and the ACP countries.
To end my speech, I would like to extend my warm thanks and congratulations to my colleague Mrs&#160;Carlotti. &#160;&#160; – The Carlotti report is a step in the right direction.
This is where the principle of citizenship takes us. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, even while this report was being considered in the Committee on Development Cooperation, I realised what the main thing was about it that I found disappointing.
Such ideas as the mobility of brainpower and circular migration may be appealing, but they are unrealistic and do nothing to change the situation.
More immigration into our own countries, then, means more misery in the developing world, contrary to what the report suggests.
What Europe needs is for immigration to be stopped outright; what the developing countries need is effective aid on the ground. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, in these works by plenary, we have in particular debated issues relating to migration.
The report by Mrs&#160;Carlotti gives us a new and very important dimension and I thank her for that.
It is the dimension, it is the relationship between migration and development, the relationship between the European Union and the developing world countries which are mainly countries of origin of immigrants and political refugees.
Our external action at Community and national level gives us many opportunities to create conditions of sustainable development in countries and communities which suffer from absolute poverty, to create jobs, democratic institutions and structures and protection for human and social rights.
The regional funds, European cooperation, stability agreements, our development action within the framework of the United Nations, the good neighbourhood policy and everything else already referred to are exceptional tools, but they are tools we must make better use of, with better coordination and serious and proper evaluation of our policies and our objectives, both by our central services and our representations, which have enhanced, decentralised responsibilities and better knowledge of local needs.
We also need to achieve better cooperation with local factors at all levels.
In addition, Commissioner, at the level of transparency and terms of good governance, our control mechanisms must put before their responsibilities both national and local administrators in beneficiary countries.
On behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, I should like to stress the importance of adding the gender dimension to all our policies, because women are the most serious victims of all forms of discrimination in developing countries and the first victims of illegal immigration when they arrive in our communities. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I too would like to congratulate Mrs&#160;Carlotti on her excellent work.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, I was very pleased to see that the majority of our proposals have been incorporated into the final text, in particular the protection of migrant women against discrimination and violence, and improving their access to health services, to education and to employment, as well as the need to pay special attention to the children of these female migrants, and the situation of women displaced as a result of conflicts.
These women in illegal situations represent a particularly vulnerable category whose fundamental rights must be protected, just like those of people with legal status.
Mr President, Europe has a moral obligation to help at least a few migrants reach the countries of the developed world so that they may break out of their current conditions and find a decent life, enabling them to acquire an education and profession and later return to their country of origin, thereby bringing about circular migration.
In order to implement the above-mentioned suggestions, it will be necessary to update and reform the immigration policy of the Member States of the European Union.
The channelling of legal immigration will require long-term cooperation between countries of origin and target countries, but the latter proposal will demand increased funding.
It is a worthy challenge on a large scale: 3% of the world’s population, namely 175&#160;million people, are migrants, and 40% of these people live in developing countries.
Aid for immigrants has a moral and also a political dimension, as we need to work out a new, transparent European Union policy in this field.
Let us also not fool ourselves into thinking that this policy will become less restrictive in the coming years.
The opposite is more likely to be the case. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, around the world there are currently almost 10&#160;million refugees and 25&#160;million people displaced within their countries, mainly in the countries of the South.
Given that I was once a refugee myself and passed through the refugee system – a refugee camp – I should like to devote this speech to the situation of migrants in refugee and transit areas.
There is no doubt in my mind that the living conditions of migrants in host and transit countries, especially in the Sahel countries, must be improved.
No reference is made to this issue in the report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to begin by warmly thanking Mrs&#160;Carlotti for her excellent work, the approach of which I support fully.
I hope that this essential solidarity will dominate the discussions at the forthcoming Euro-African Conference in Rabat.
We all talk about achieving the Millennium Development Goals, but nowhere is there any express reference to the problem of migration.
The European Union must speed up the incorporation of migration into all external actions and foreign policy and, more importantly, we must examine ways of incorporating it into the new strategy for development cooperation, the new European neighbourhood strategy.
First, I suggest we tidy things up at home in the European Union, where we are seeing a similar brain drain from the new to the old countries.
The process is even more painful, since internal borders and barriers are diminishing and disappearing.
The EU must create a special fund to regulate the brain drain and soften its impact.
From this point of view, you can be reassured by the Commission.
I must say, Mrs&#160;Aubert, that I warmly welcome your call for investment in public policies.
It is extremely difficult to encourage citizens from developing countries who live without prospects, who feel that they have no prospects, who live without access to the basic services that any normal society should provide, to stay at home and contribute to their countries.
The proper response to migration is development, purely and simply.
I know that in this area you have none. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0207/2006) by Mr&#160;Frithjof&#160;Schmidt, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on fair trade and development (2005/2245(INI)). &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by means of the report on fair trade and development, we, as Parliament, are reacting to the remarkable economic and political success story which is fair trade.
In individual countries, we have market shares of up to 20%, as is the case with coffee in Great Britain.
This all serves to demonstrate the success of a civil society initiative under market conditions which, hitherto, has got by without significant state support and funding.
At the same time, this is also directly successful in combating poverty since fair prices guarantee a fair income.
Fair prices, fair working and production conditions, adherence to ecological standards; all of these things are of equal benefit to the quality of life of producers in the south and consumers in the north.
This was preceded by intensive exchanges between the Fair Trade Movement and numerous associations on the problems of fair trade.
Key criteria that have been put forward to this end in the report include, , producer prices which guarantee their existence, informing consumers about the prices maintained by producers, that is, transparency, observance of the core conventions of the International Labour Organisation regarding health and safety at work and child labour in relation to production, the observance of environmental standards, supporting production and market access by producer organisations and monitoring compliance with these criteria.
It would be important for these points to be included in the Commission’s recommendation.
At this point, I would also expressly like to thank the Commission.
One more personal observation: Commissioner Mandelson, I know that you love chocolate and I have often seen how you prefer fair trade chocolate from Oxfam.
Fair Trade is one of the key tools, in my view, to enhance sustainable development and to equip us better to fight poverty in the world, and as a concept it is developing fast.
You are not just undertaking an act of consumption that is good in terms of the content of what you consume.
The Commission actively supports Fair Trade.
We took on commitments to Fair Trade in the Cotonou Agreement with the ACP countries, as well as in our communication on policy coherence for development.
What is required to tackle poverty and to enhance development is a general and coherent policy framework.
Fair Trade is private and limited to the participating producers, while the UN Millennium Development Goals are for all.
So Fair Trade is particular and specific, the Millennium Development Goals are general and wide-ranging; but there is a clear interconnection between the two.
As the report rightly points out, there are other non-Fair Trade operators that can achieve similar results to those obtained by Fair Traders, that have the same growth potential and that can influence consumer choice and the international trading schemes.
We should fully use the potential of all credible initiatives to support sustainability.
If it does, that should govern our response and attitude to it.
Building on commitments taken previously, we want to explore with our partners the use of economic partnership agreements with the ACP countries, as well as other trade agreements, for including specific incentives targeted at improving market access for fair trade products.
That is where I believe we can leverage our interest and leverage our commitment most beneficially.
It is very useful, therefore, that the report points to the danger of inappropriate national legislation in the field of Fair Trade.
I am aware of some initiatives being taken that might harm the status that Fair Trade has already achieved.
You are right about the need to protect consumers, the question is how.
I am glad, therefore, that this report provides the framework, both for this dialogue and for the way in which we can, should and will take our commitment in this area further forward.
In conclusion I would like to thank the rapporteur again for the quality of this report. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Frithjof&#160;Schmidt, who dealt with the problem in a very objective-oriented manner and successfully put it to the vote.
Although the topic has been dealt with by the Commission and Parliament on numerous occasions, there is always the need for further action so that fair trade can continue to develop efficiently and successfully.
What is important here is that central standards and criteria are introduced on which basis the market should develop.
For the producers of fair trade products, I am calling for price structuring which ensures their existence, fair production conditions and adherence to environmental standards in the context of sustainable development.
Fair Trade can make a positive contribution to the development of poor countries by ensuring better conditions for producers and their families, as well as ensuring better access to world markets and promoting sustainable development.
The report concerns the Fair Trade sector.
It is an attempt to make all trade fairer and this subject has been touched upon in many other European Parliament resolutions and reports.
I asked him whether he liked living in France.
Here in France, three of his children were able to go to university, something that was impossible to imagine in Ghana.
We want fair prices for farmers in all developing countries.
It is of particular importance, because today much of our food and drink comes from the developing world, where farmers and workers are finding it increasingly difficult to make a decent living.
The simple decision to buy products with a Fair Trade mark can have a huge impact, guaranteeing that growers and workers benefit from fairer wages and better working conditions, and can make a crucial different to their ability to provide for the basic needs of their families.
In the last five years, the United Kingdom has proved to have the most dynamic Fair Trade structures of all the EU Member States and is the fastest growing Fair Trade market in the world.
This figure could and should be much higher and it is the duty of all responsible Members of this House to raise awareness of this necessary project.
Garstang in Lancashire was the first town to achieve Fair Trade status in 2001.
Thirteen north-west towns, including industrial powerhouses such as Manchester, Lancaster and Liverpool, have all followed.
Kendal was the first Fair Trade borough and now Lancashire Council has pledged to become the first Fair Trade county.
As well as in the European Parliament, Fair Trade products are available in many Council buildings, tea and coffee served at meetings is Fair Trade and awareness days have been held to inform staff about the benefits of Fair Trade. &#160;&#160; . – At a time when the World Trade Organisation negotiations have hit yet another deadlock, it is good to see this Chamber debating a report on fair trade.
The EU must therefore make a commitment to fair trade, if only to appease the conscience of a common agricultural policy that spreads hunger and poverty in the countries of the South.
Fair trade could be a feather in your cap, Commissioner.
Shoppers who choose produce with the Fair Trade mark play a vital role in alleviating poverty and supporting marginalised producers in a manner that promotes dignity and self-sufficiency.
The message is obvious: consumers are happy to support Fair Trade.
Fair Trade’s significant worldwide growth in 2005 also shows that more and more producers, traders and suppliers trust the Fair Trade certificate mark and like to join the system.
I recently visited Guatemala with Trocaire, an Irish NGO.
During our visit we visited the Claremont coffee estate, where 50 families who have lived and worked on that estate for three generations, living in what can only be described as feudal conditions, were thrown off their farm because the owner, who happens to be the sister-in-law of the country’s president, decided that she did not want them on the estate and wanted to change what they were doing.
For me, it means free trade, trade without customs and quotas in an environment where free enterprising spirit and the right to property are respected.
The report mixes up two different kinds of Fair Trade.
The report proposes providing companies’ Fair Trade with a legal basis of its own and setting political goals and criteria.
They often give more money and influence to organisations controlled by leftist ideology and opposition to free trade than to the really poor in underdeveloped countries.
Tropicana and Dole orange juice probably do more to contribute to development and fighting poverty than, for instance, the example we have here from Oxfam.
The Oxfam orange juice sold here in Parliament, for example, comes from Cuba.
Until someone has explained to me how it can be called Fair Trade when I buy state-produced juice and my money goes to a communist dictatorship I demand that all Oxfam products be removed from the range of goods on offer in Parliament, because that is not Fair Trade. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I wish to convey my congratulations to the rapporteur and also to the draftsman of the opinion.
Irrespective of whether fair trade is written with capital or small letters, for me, it is very important that attention is drawn to the fact that the ‘fair trade’ label, under the corresponding conditions, can be a model for the global market.
I am wondering why people in this House are so afraid of fairness in world trade.
Representatives of these small business employers told us about the important role played by the ‘fair trade’ label in their regions.
They also mentioned that it would be a good example and a solution to the problem in their regions if international trade as a whole would move more in this direction.
Reference was also made to the enormous influence of fair trade production on combating poverty in general and, specifically, on the lives of women.
The value of Fair Trade products sold in the United Kingdom doubled between 2002 and 2004 and Fair Trade brands of coffee and tea have become household names.
It is estimated that three million Fair Trade hot drinks are consumed in the UK each day.
A modest amount of promotion of Fair Trade would trigger a substantial growth in the market for Fair Trade goods and significant poverty reduction in producer countries. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, the fairer distribution of the benefits of globalisation and the more effective incorporation of developing countries into the global economic system are the prime challenges for the global community.
It is a well-known fact that the Union is one of the most open markets in the world, especially as a result of the 'everything but arms' initiative for the benefit of less developed countries and the preferential treatment of other developing countries.
The development of fair trade systems and the promotion of products which meet high social and environmental specifications are even more important in light of the absence of such matters from current World Trade Organisation negotiations.
This week our First Minister announced proposals for Wales to become a Fair Trade nation.
We are now working to increase awareness of Fair Trade issues amongst the population in Wales.
I believe that in 2007 Wales will become a Fair Trade nation and our Fair Trade support will, as others have said, make an enormous difference to the lives of countless poor people and will mean that we will make our contribution to making poverty history. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I fully support Mr&#160;Schmidt’s report and the European Parliament’s motion for a resolution.
It also involves paying attention to the socio-economic situation of producers and their local communities.
That is why, on behalf of the members of the European Parliament’s working group on the destruction of obsolete pesticides and the non-governmental organisations working with us, I would like to draw your attention to the problem posed by the tens of thousands of tons of obsolete pesticides stockpiled in African countries, former Soviet states, European Union Member States and countries applying for European Union membership.
Just because they are not a total solution, that should not blind us to the fact that they make a very important contribution to the overall solution that we want to see in putting trade at the service of development, to enable us to tackle poverty in the world.
That is why this report and debate enable us to take a stand and deliver a message, not least because there is growing public interest and concern.
For all those reasons, because consumers are becoming increasingly aware and want to make an informed choice, that translates into pressure on mainstream operators, producers and traders to raise their game in order to match higher public expectations and standards.
Nor is it the case that one particular Fair Trade scheme or Fair Trade label gives that scheme or that label an exclusive right to endorsement.
There are other organisations and NGOs, such as the Rainforest Alliance, which deliver many of the same environmental and social benefits by working in collaboration with mainstream companies.
There is broader work being led by Mr Michel on commodity supply change, through which we are planning to support the creation of a web portal to serve as a clearing-house of information about consumer assurance schemes of all kinds.
There are other ideas and proposals that I want to take back to the Commission and to consider with my colleagues.
The Director-General, Mr&#160;Lamy, told us that it was the moment of truth and, as he himself has said, the result we are faced with is that we are in crisis.
The Chinese have a character to illustrate the idea of crisis, which I believe can be applied to the current situation of the WTO: the upper part means 'mortal danger' and lower part, 'opportunity'.
I believe that we are in a situation in which what is at stake is the survival of the WTO as a multilateral platform for consolidating world trade and the process of globalisation, in order to ensure that the WTO does not fall apart and we do not return to bilateral approaches, which may be useful within a multilateral framework, but which, if they become an alternative to the multilateral, would be extremely destructive in the long term.
Not only have they given us important information, but we have also been able to work together, building bridges and holding talks.
I believe that you have acted well, but in any event, Madam President, these are my questions on behalf of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; .
We met several times with the ministers from the Group of Six, that is ourselves in Europe, the United States, Brazil, India, Japan and Australia.
We then specified that to capture such a basis for agreement we would on our side be prepared to move towards and close to the level of average cuts in farm tariffs proposed for developed countries by the G20, provided that others moved in concert, with a similar level of ambition in other areas of the negotiation.
We pushed hard to establish a clear correspondence between the effort that we would make in agricultural market access and the effort that the United States in turn would have to make in the reduction of domestic subsidies close to the G20 levels of average cut by us, to be matched by close to G20 reductions of trade-distorting subsidies by the US.
He has not been asked to author a final agreement or provide a Dunkel-type text, like the previous Director-General at the end of the Uruguay Round, but instead to use his good offices to act as a go-between for a final agreement to emerge.
This is an opportunity that will not repeat itself to open markets further, to reduce subsidies, to strengthen world trade rules and to make a real contribution to growth in the poorest countries in the world.
This being said, our trade agenda goes beyond achieving a successful Doha deal.
This will examine how future trade policy can contribute to our internal competitiveness policies and what the priority tasks are for us to build new and secure global markets for our investment and trade.
Today’s vote follows a lengthy process of negotiations on many detailed and complex issues, which all sides approached in a constructive spirit.
I am pleased to report that many significant amendments proposed by Parliament have been accepted.
The normal legal-linguistic verification process should deal with any remaining textual variations on this basis.
There are minor textual variations in Article 3.1 and in certain amendments.
Mrs Beer asked me to pass on her thanks to the various political group coordinators and to the Council and Commission for their good cooperation in the fruitful compromise negotiations.
However, there are five important agreements that were reached during the negotiations which are not reflected in the amendments in front of you, but which nevertheless form an integral part of the compromise achieved.
Amendments 108 to 112 take account of various documents concerning the following issues.
Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner gave formal assurance that the Commission would enter into regular dialogue with Parliament on the content of the draft country, regional and thematic strategy papers and guarantee to take due account of the position of Parliament when implementing the strategies proposed, the ‘declaration on democratic scrutiny’.
Secondly, concerning exceptional assistance measures, the Commission gave the guarantee to treat the European Parliament at the same level as the Council, which means informing Parliament in a timely manner of exceptional assistance measures which it has adopted.
Our Legal Service has asked us to state that there are still a small number of purely linguistic and technical variations between the texts adopted by the Council and the text recommended for adoption today.
This is a purely technical issue linked to the fact that, in a first reading agreement, the normal process of legal revision and verification can only take place after the vote.
We have taken into account the experience gained during previous rounds of enlargement, and we have considered the interests of the European Union and the specific requirements and problems of candidate states.
I would like to thank the co-rapporteurs, Mr&#160;Dimitrakopoulos, Mrs&#160;De&#160;Keyser and Mr&#160;Lagendijk, for their help and constructive cooperation, and the Commission too for its constructive and supportive cooperation.
Please adopt this instrument. &#160;&#160; , . – Mr President, I would like to emphasise an important point as the outcome of the negotiations and, provided there are no objections, I would also like to have this put on record.
The Commission and the Council have agreed that these three instruments shall be subject to a review prior to the European elections in 2009.
As for the report itself, Mr&#160;Lauk and Mr&#160;Bullmann have my support, and I wish to thank the two groups for their good cooperation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, would like to thank Mr&#160;Alvaro and Mr&#160;Lauk for their good cooperation.
That does nothing to change the result, but the amendments relating to comitology have a minus against them in all the voting lists, in that we all agree on them; they should not be allowed to lapse, but should be voted on.
Let me now tell the House which ones these amendments are; I ask you to allow them to be voted on, but all the groups that have considered them have marked them with a minus.
The amendments in question are Nos 20, 22, 24, 103, 124 and 125, and they are to be voted on, and they are to be voted on even if there is a minus against them; that is the political compromise on which the rapporteurs have agreed. &#160;&#160; I should like to amend the title before paragraph 6.
I think it only fair that we should do this, not only for this House, but also for the benefit of other committees of inquiry in – for example – other parliaments. &#160;&#160; – That concludes Voting Time. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by means of my report, we are making an important proposal for the combating of VAT fraud within the European Union, which cheats the European taxpayer out of some EUR&#160;60&#160;billion every year.
Contaminated needles can transmit more than 20 dangerous blood-borne pathogens, including hepatitis B, hepatitis C and HIV.
The majority of these injuries are suffered by nurses and doctors, but other medical staff are also at significant risk, as are auxiliary staff, such as cleaners and laundry staff and other downstream workers.
Furthermore, all workers who might come into contact with needles and other medical sharps are to be offered vaccination against hepatitis B. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, trust is a beautiful thing, but there cannot be unconditional trust.
Although we voted today on a number of packages of financial proposals, the stability instrument is the least transparent of them.
The complexity is apparent from the very goals of this measure.
A Wider Neighbourhood Action Plan had been proposed, with a view to facilitating cooperation between the outermost regions and their neighbouring countries.
This formed part of the sustainable development strategy for the outermost regions proposed by the Commission in order to pursue one of its priority action areas, namely bringing these regions into their own regional environment.
I support Development Committee colleagues in their concerns that the inclusion of peace-support measures in this instrument should not bleed funds from the development budget.
The Greek Communist Party voted against the report because it is in favour of and at some points formulates in an even more reactionary direction the tenet of the European Commission's proposal for a regulation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, against my advice, Parliament adopted the amendment tabled by Mr&#160;Radwan, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, to my report on comitology.
This may, indeed, have been Mr Radwan’s intention – I do not know – but the amendment refers to a resolution adopted by Parliament, which envisages the adoption of sunset clauses on the delegation of legislation that apply systematically to all legislation that we adopt in the financial services sector.
The amendment adopted – however much I deplore it – was only an amendment to a recital in which we refer to a past resolution having regard to it.
We do not, as a Parliament, reaffirm our endorsement of the resolution.
This nuance should enable the Commission to accept our text and to consider that the agreement we have negotiated remains valid. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to go back to the Corbett report.
I should like to say a few words on the subject of comitology.
Just like my fellow members of the Czech Civil Democratic Party (ODS), I voted against this report.
The Council, however, argued that Article 202 of the EC Treaty remained unchanged, providing for the Council (alone) to define the system for implementing powers.
The key step forward for Parliament which is possible now as an outcome of negotiations with the Council and the Commission, is that Parliament will be able to block the adoption of ‘quasi-legislative’ implementing measures to which it objects.
If it does so, the Commission can make a new proposal or table draft legislation.
I welcome this report´, as it expands the powers of the European Parliament and enables it be an ever more effective and democratic institution. &#160;&#160; – Should we be pleased or concerned about the agreement reached between the Council, Parliament and the Commission on the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission?
In view of growing concerns about civil rights and protection of personal data of EU citizens, ALDE feels further assurances are needed in this area.
The case of SWIFT casts doubts on the adequacy of data protection instruments in the EU.
The fight against this scourge has accordingly become one of the key political priorities in Europe and around the world.
This proposal forms part of a range of measures taken by the Union aimed at reducing access for terrorists to financial and other economic resources.
It is aimed at the authorities responsible for combating money laundering and terrorist financing, and establishes rules on the requirement to provide information on payers transferring funds.
Furthermore, the Commission has discretionary powers in the process, and there are therefore very few companies and organisations – and it is always the same ones – that are conversant with the mechanics of the process.
If the European Union really does have the intention of addressing the problem of illegal immigration, then it has to begin at the beginning.
It is crucial for the Union that we put mechanisms in place for the Member States to exchange information.
Exchange of information on these measures will help them to be better understood.
He is also right to call, in his report, for Parliament to have the right to appeal to the Court of Justice in the event that Member States fail to respect Members’ immunities, which were established to defend Parliament’s rights and in particular to protect MEPs against action that a hostile executive may decide to bring, via a proxy prosecutor.
It should adopt the same legal stance on defending freedom of expression when there has manifestly been , as in my case.
This position has been imposed by the Right, with the complicity of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, which signed the joint resolution; - the defence of the right of companies to take management decisions aimed at delivering their own economic growth, regardless of the potential social consequences; - there is no mention of the economic and social impact of relocations, which most often take place with the sole purpose of cutting costs and maximising profits, with factors such as economic viability and productivity playing no part in the decision; these relocations often fail to respect contractual obligations, yet in the most mercenary fashion the businesses involved enjoy local, national and Community public aid, leaving behind a trail of unemployment and undermining local economies.
Yet it is also true that there are two highly pertinent points in this proposal that should not be overlooked.
The first of these is the social responsibility of businesses and the duty to honour agreements and contracts, not least when they have received grants and subsidies in respect of a particular activity.
The considerations, concerns and proposals contained in this resolution are worthy of my support.
The ongoing process of restructuring Europe’s business fabric, not least manufacturing, will hopefully have positive consequences, but will also have a negative social impact, especially in the initial stages.
It is time for us to accept our responsibility, and I believe that the Fava report is a first step in that direction. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I voted against the Fava report on the grounds that it is a typical example of Left-wing bias.
The temporary committee has already decided everything in advance, so that all that was needed was to find the evidence.
It just so happens that no evidence has come to light of torture or of other illegal activities on the part of the CIA in the European Union, so what this report does is to take what are actually suppositions and indications and systematically put them forward as facts, and that is intellectually dishonest.
It can indeed be said, speaking frankly, that there are Members of this House who do not actually want terrorism to be dealt with. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my bitter disappointment at the adoption of the Fava report.
If there were incontrovertible facts showing that the CIA had used European countries for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners, the word ‘alleged’ should have been taken out of the title.
Fourthly and lastly, we must look carefully into how much time Parliament devotes to investigating an alleged problem and how much time it devotes to the real problem of terrorism.
By adopting the report by Mr&#160;Fava, we are leaving ourselves open to doubts as to whether we are capable of assessing the relative importance of individual problems and whether we will manage to address those problems appropriately. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today in this plenary session, the MEPs from the Czech Civil Democratic Party (ODS) chose not to support the interim report by Mr&#160;Fava on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners.
The report is, in our view, based on the current trend for anti-Americanism, which does not take account of the serious threat of international terrorism.
The United States of America and its allies, including the Czech Republic, have channelled all their efforts over the past five years into combating this terrible threat.
This is a very real danger and the Fava report completely ignores the need to combat it.
The report also entirely disregards the fact that it is the approach jointly adopted by the USA and its allies from a number of European countries that has enabled us to reduce international terrorism substantially and has thus provided the citizens of Europe with greater security.
The MEPs from the Czech ODS cannot support such a position with their votes. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that some of our amendments have been accepted, the Fava report, on which we have voted today, remains biased, one-sided and imbued with preconceptions, as well as being intent on supporting totally groundless theories.
The report should help to demystify the real meaning of the terms ‘pre-emptive war’ and the ‘fight against terrorism’ with which the USA and its allies have sought to cloak their attacks on the populations and sovereignty of countries, in breach of international law and human rights.
The report should also help to get to the bottom of what happened and to bring those responsible to account, by clarifying the content of the NATO agreements and the agreements between the EU and the USA on this issue.
We cannot simply accept assurances from friendly governments concerning the prohibition on torture and cruel and degrading treatment: we have a responsibility to ensure that we and our allies act within international law.
In political terms, we now need to examine whether the EU and its Member States have the necessary instruments to pursue the truth about what is happening on our territory and in our name and the appropriate safeguards to protect our citizens and residents.
I welcome the parliamentary majority for the continuation of the work of this Temporary Committee. &#160;&#160; . – I did not vote for the motion for a resolution by the Temporary Committee on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners.
There are those governments that make people’s rights and freedoms subordinate to the campaign against anyone who dissents and can therefore be suspected of terrorism.
The freedoms of individual human beings evidently no longer count for anything in the fight against terrorism.
The interim report is important for two reasons.
Firstly, unlike members of the Council of Europe, MEPs are directly elected and answerable to our constituents.
We investigate all manner of issues on behalf of them and we cannot ignore calls that Member States may have breached their Treaty obligations under Article 6 of the EU Treaty, which outlines the basic principles of democracy, human rights and respect of law.
The European Parliament is the only body that can impose sanctions on Member States that breach these Treaty obligations.
The committee heard strong personal testimonies, which provided compelling evidence in the report. &#160;&#160; – The interim report on CIA activities, with abductions, transportation, interrogations and torture in European countries confirms the disclosures by organisations and the media.
The MEPs of the Greek Communist Party abstained, in a refusal to take part in the theatre of the absurd being played in the European Parliament because: An EU-US agreement was signed in Athens allowing the CIA to act with impunity and now the forces which support it are 'protesting' about its results.
The governments of the Member States, both centre right and centre left, knew about and took part in the CIA orgy and the members of the parties which support them, many of whom knew about it, appear to condemn them.
Human rights and the fight against terrorism, in tandem with relations with our main ally, require special focus and consideration.
What emerges from this interim report is a number of doubts and suspicions that have not been clarified, as well as some contradictory statements from a number of bodies.
I believe that both European countries and our allies are capable of making mistakes and of carrying out acts that break the law.
In confirming my vote in favour of this resolution, I should like to stress that the problem is not just one of data being illegally transferred to a third country, but is also one of data that has been collected for commercial purposes being used instead for security purposes.
According to the European Court of Human Rights, it is a question, in this case, of blanket surveillance, which runs counter to the European directives and to the legislation of the Member States, and it is also for this last reason that we support the Swift report. &#160;&#160; . – We voted for the resolution tabled by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, but rejected the joint resolution on the Society for World Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) case, on the grounds of a lack of balance that cannot be rectified by a series of amendments.
We all know the difficulty involved in assessing the level of priority of the fight against terrorism and the similarly fundamental respect for our individual rights.
It is tricky to know where to draw the line, but this is a crucial debate in a world in which terrorism cuts across national borders.
Under the ‘Terrorism Finance Monitoring Programme’ the USA has, with the help of a secret agreement, gained access to all financial data stored by the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications (SWIFT), a cooperative of 8&#160;000 banks and institutions in 200 countries, including the European Central Bank.
Access to this kind of information has been granted in violation of the legal procedures on data protection and without any legal basis.
This breaches people’s rights, freedoms and guarantees, and the sovereign responsibility of each country as regards protecting its citizens.
Consequently, the truth must be brought out and those responsible for this unacceptable situation held to account, including the role of the European Central Bank.
It reveals the role of the banking system, private companies and public corporations in the capitalist countries and the European Central Bank, which even infringe their own rules in the general interest of the system.
Resolutions and calls for protection of citizens' privacy and for a balance between the fight against terrorism and human rights by the conservative and social democrat parties that predominate in the EU and in the governments are monumental hypocrisy.
Moreover, immigrants must be accorded all political rights without any questions being asked about their willingness to integrate.
It is even claimed at one point that certain cultural and religious customs must not be an obstacle to foreigners enjoying rights or being integrated into society: this even though we all know perfectly well that this is a veiled way of talking about the so-called cultural and religious customs of Islam, which are the real point at issue here and which, in fact, run completely counter to the things our European democracies have achieved and the rights enjoyed in them.
It is for this reason, among many others, that I have, of course, voted against the adoption of this report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I voted against the Lambrinidis report on the grounds that it contains no solution whatsoever to these problems, but, on the contrary, is itself part of the problem.
The official admission of 40&#160;million immigrants from outside Europe is the opening of the floodgates.
The Member States already set aside hundred of billions of euro every year for so-called integration policies, which are blatantly failing, costly for society and a hindrance for their economies.
Do not forget the riots in France, in which young people shouted their hatred of our institutions, our values and everything that we stand for.
The multicultural societies that you want to create are powder kegs.
For these reasons, we have decided to abstain on this report. &#160;&#160; . – Today, there are around 50&#160;million immigrants in Europe, most of them from Africa and Asia, and that figure is increasing by one to two million every year.
In France, three weeks of rioting in November 2005 reduced to ashes dozens of buildings constructed as part of this policy, including community halls, gymnasia and schools.
Other proposals, such as 'encouraging political participation among immigrants', in other words giving them the right to vote, as Mr&#160;Sarkozy wants to do in France, will break up our societies still further.
To cite just a few examples: the rapporteur confuses immigration from accession countries (especially in the past) with immigration from other countries, which is an error of analysis that emerges in his conclusions; he makes the mistaken assertion that the 40&#160;million-plus nationals from third countries make ‘the EU’s 26th Member State (and its fifth largest)’; and lastly the idea, since withdrawn by the Confederal Group of the European United Left, that the Member States must confer citizenship on immigrants, without mentioning that this issue has different regulations and different , is a simplistic approach to a complex matter.
The fact that there is a problem at the moment with integrating some immigrant communities in the EU shows that no European model is currently working fully and effectively.
I very much hope that this Nordic desire will soon be put into practice, through the implementation of a humane joint policy on the right to asylum, or cooperation between the 25 Member States to allocate quotas to each country.
They are insulting hypocrisy, given that immigrants throughout the EU are subject to the harshest exploitation of capital, in poorly paid, uninsured jobs, with no access to fundamental social and political rights, permanently hostage to the reactionary institutional framework of the Member States and of the ΕU, which illegally keeps millions of immigrants prisoner.
The Greek Communist Party supports the fair applications of immigrants for legal status, the abolition of undeclared, uninsured jobs, increased wages and salaries, equal pay for jobs of equal value, improved, free public education and health services and full political rights for everyone.
However, we are against the idea of integrating the migration issue into EU external policies, as stated in paragraph six.
We believe that policy in this area must remain within the competence of national governments and do not believe in a pan-European approach to immigration policy. &#160;&#160; – Mrs&#160;Carlotti's biggest failing, which can be found in all the European Parliament's reports on this subject, is that she thinks that immigration, rebaptised for the occasion as 'human mobility', is a human right.
One element of this is to organise the repatriation of immigrants to their countries of origin, so that those countries can benefit from the experience and the skills they gained during their stay in the European Union.
It does not, however, criticise the immigration policy operating in the EU or condemn the underlying causes behind the migration of millions of men and women around the world.
These policies of liberalisation and privatisation are intended to promote the concentration of wealth and property in the large economic and financial groups and to manipulate the Member States into pandering to their interests, which demonstrates that they do not need interference and war to impose their ideas. &#160;&#160; . – On the eve of the Rabat conference, it is vital that we remember that cooperation between the European Union and immigrants' countries of origin must not be limited to helping them to strengthen their borders.
It emphasises equality, rights for asylum-seekers and assistance for integration and cooperation.
I am, however, against the proposals contained in the report that provide for greater power for the EU on migration policy since this would have a negative impact both in practical and democratic terms.
In this light, the Commission now needs to send a strong political signal in favour of a system of trade that provides producers with a decent income and helps to remove any temptations to social and environmental dumping.
The producer must of course receive a fair income – so as to cover the costs of production and to ensure a sustainable livelihood – and must, moreover, be involved in the process of placing his products on the market, to name but two of the many positive points in this report.
This must not hide the fact that the broader ideas underpinning so-called fair trade are very much at variance with the policies of liberalisation of world trade, for example in the WTO (not to mention the free trade agreements encouraged by the EU and the USA), which seek to manipulate the production systems of the economically least developed countries to meet the expansion needs of the large economic and financial groups of the ‘northern’ countries.
I also submitted an amendment urging the Commission to liaise with the international Fair Trade movement in supporting clear and widely-applicable criteria against which consumer assurance schemes can be assessed, so as to support consumer confidence in such schemes.
To close, I should like to extend my particular thanks to the Commissioner, Mr&#160;Mandelson, for his detailed report on the Geneva meeting and to honestly congratulate him on his negotiating stand. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to take my turn in thanking the chairman of the Committee on International Trade, Mr&#160;Barón Crespo, and the Commissioner, Mr&#160;Mandelson, on their reports.
However, I believe that this climate must not under any circumstances put pressure on the Commission or on Commissioner Mandelson to continue to make concessions, especially in the agricultural sector.
He spoke of real cuts in agricultural subsidies by all and he used the phrase ‘operating to the limit of our flexibility’.
Some have even said that the meeting was counterproductive, with an atmosphere even more difficult than before, but perhaps the silver lining is that developing countries are united in insisting that rich countries put development at the heart of the process as a matter of course and deliver on their extremely long-standing promises.
More than two thirds of the WTO membership – developing and least-developed countries – declared that they were prepared to make a deal, but that industrial countries have to make the greatest contribution to show real leadership.
I am glad the EU signalled that it was prepared to move closer to the G20 position, particularly by lowering domestic support, but there are still loopholes in the EU offer that would undermine the potential of a true development deal.
On NAMA, the Commission is still demanding too much extreme liberalisation, which will threaten the very survival of some developing countries’ local manufacturing and it is hardly in the spirit of the Development Round to demand action on applied tariff levels rather than, as usual, bound tariff levels.
I have three questions I would like to put to Commissioner Mandelson.
I want to put to the Commission two proposals as regards this trade agenda.
Bilateral agreements always present world trade with innumerable sorts of trade rules that make it less manageable and less effective.
My second proposal has to do with the role of developing countries, which must not be allowed to fall victim to the power of any future bilateral agreements.
I could not be there, but they did express their thanks for the way he kept them informed.
Although you cannot always believe what you read in the press, according to a press release you had asked the US trade representative, Susan Schwab, what she would be able to offer if the EU were to give the US everything it wanted on market access.
With up to 85% of their populations living in rural areas it is not surprising that the world’s poorest countries will judge any package on the basis of its impact on their farmers.
Agriculture represents only 2% of our wealth, therefore it seems perverse to make this a sticking point when we have so much to gain from improved non-market agricultural access and in particular from services liberalisation.
While I believe we can and should go further and I commend the Commissioner for his flexibility, particularly the flexibility he showed in Geneva, this is a flexibility that is sadly lacking in our negotiating and trading partners.
When the Commissioner does that, would he also again talk to Commissioner Fischer Boel about allowing countries in Europe to have GM-free status? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to start by thanking Commissioner Mandelson for the spirit of openness he showed the four of us who made up Parliament’s delegation in Geneva last weekend.
We deserve an ambitious agreement, an agreement that provides greater market access for both agricultural products and industrial goods for everyone, both in industrialised countries and in developing countries, and one that does not leave out services.
The economic reality should be enough to convince all the parties to make that little bit of extra effort, particularly the EU-Brazil-USA triangle that was so much in the spotlight over the weekend in Geneva.
In the USA, for example, even the most dogmatic advocates of agricultural protectionism should be able to see that it is better to give up their agricultural subsidies in the course of the negotiations and receive market access to key regions in exchange, rather than to be forced to give them up by a dispute settlement body following a breakdown of the talks, and then receive nothing at all in exchange.
The sugar panel that came down against us and made us reform our subsidies to sugar producers ought to have given us the same insight.
We, who see the benefit of it every day through the internal market. &#160;&#160; – I was part of Parliament’s delegation in Geneva and I should like to share a couple of positive points with you: the first was the positive cooperation between the Commission and the MEPs that were there.
I have one or two questions.
Firstly, what is Europe's actual ability to find a solution, even a partial one, to these problems in the Doha round?
Secondly, if, as we expect, an agreement is not reached in July, what strategy will the EU adopt?
The EU will not look again at tariffs before 2013 and precious time will be lost.
That is an enormous opportunity for European producers.
For a start, our economy needs markets to be really open, particularly in the emerging economies.
It is vital to all the interested parties that this round should not fail, but should instead be able to yield gains in prosperity for all WTO members on the basis of clear and unambiguous results.
We have a number of interests in these negotiations – agricultural, non-agricultural, relating to services liberalisation and rules.
It should also be clear to our Member States.
Having said that, it is important to keep a sensible perspective in these negotiations.
As far as the United States is concerned, let me just say this in response to one speech: I do not feel that, should the talks fail, we as European negotiators are in a race with the United States to see who can shift the blame most effectively to the other.
I look to the United States as a genuine partner, as a country and an economy that shares some of our interests but at the same time places a different emphasis from us in various areas of these negotiations.
We will lose from that, the United States will lose from that, the global economy will lose from that and in particular developing countries will lose from that.
I am afraid I am not preparing for failure: I am going to continue to negotiate for success only, whether it be in relation to hormone beef, which is not part of these negotiations – we do not welcome US hormone-treated beef in the European Union for health reasons, not trade reasons – or in relation to GMOs, which again are not the subject of these talks and where our policy firstly has to be in line with the regulatory framework we adopted in the EU a few years ago and in line with WTO rules.
I am glad that we – the Commission and Members of this Parliament – are able to cooperate in Geneva and elsewhere.
I am aware that this proposal was sent within the documents of the 133 Committee, communicated as usual by the Commission’s secretariat to the secretariat of the Committee on International Trade.
Firstly, with regard to the fundamental issue, I would like to point out that I am in favour of your proposal to establish an obligatory system of origin marking in the European Community.
I believe that this initiative moves in the right direction.
In short, the proposed origin marking system will inform European consumers of the precise country of origin of the products they buy.
That is what will allow us to survive in the globalised world, in sectors with such high levels of quality and design as textiles, clothing, jewellery and footwear, for example, and also automobiles, since that is another sensitive sector.
In relation to the negotiations this weekend in the WTO, I would also say that I believe that such a sensitive issue to Europe as geographical indications is relevant to this line of thinking: we must safeguard what characterises us at world level.
This is therefore a point on which we fully support the Commission: we do not understand the attitude of many European Union States which are currently blocking the decision in the Council.
We believe that this is an important step towards increasing our presence and competitiveness at world level and I believe that this falls within our collective responsibilities.
The Commission and the Members States should not just listen to the views of importers, wholesalers or companies that have already relocated their production to other continents, however respectable they may be.
Our main trading partners impose the ‘Made in Europe’ upon us, so why do we, for our part, not contribute to increasing the prestige of this marking?
However, in line with our commitment to keep the European Parliament fully informed, on a par with the Council, of the conduct and conclusion of international negotiations, as well as legislative initiatives, the proposal and the accompanying impact assessment were transmitted on 12 January 2006 to the European Parliament via the Committee on International Trade.
I very much welcome the interest you have already shown in this proposal through several questions on the subject, which we have answered.
So let me now come to our proposal.
We have proposed a mandatory origin marking scheme, to create transparency about the origin of certain imported goods according to a single standard by which origin is determined.
That part of customs work is crucial to ensuring that our businesses can trade on a level playing field and that consumers draw the full benefits of globalisation.
I should add that in addition to possible controls carried out before the products are released into the internal market, the regulation provides for Member States to check origin marking on goods that are already on the market.
As you will be aware, Mr President, the Commission proposal is being debated in the Council and I am of course ready to keep you informed as discussions on the proposal move forward. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I totally endorse what the Commissioner said.
What I can never understand in these situations is why a country – and I can think of one in particular, because we had this problem in Hong Kong – is so afraid of having its own name on a product.
But I say again that while the matter may not come under this remit – and the Commissioner was quite right to say I was wrong in assuming that hormone beef was part of the trade negotiations – all this is connected with world trade and it is the kind of issue that will come up.
I want to see it as an opportunity for countries outside the European Union to be able to be proud of what they produce, providing it is produced – and here I totally agree with the Commissioner – to the same standards that we have within the European Union. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, the proposal for a regulation on the indication of the country of origin on certain products imported from third countries is unquestionably very important, and represents noteworthy progress in implementing the principles of fairness and transparency in international trade.
At the point of purchase of the products covered by this proposal, European consumers will, among other things, be in a position to compare various approaches to environmental, social and safety, and other such important issues.
This is therefore a fair and timely proposal that should be implemented at the earliest opportunity.
We must strive for equal rules with those trade areas – China, the US, Canada, Japan – that have already introduced origin marking to be restored to a minimum level, in the knowledge that such a move does not bring with it any risk of illegality.
The compulsory origin marking of imported goods may be indirectly or directly useful in all of this.
It would not incur extra costs for producers, exporters or European consumers, thus making it easier to create a level playing field with those trade partners that have already implemented the standard, in line with the political and cultural decision that was and is aimed at creating, expanding and strengthening an increasingly large and free world market.
Compulsory origin marking will also make it possible to promote the high-quality, and I stress high-quality, manufacturing industry in many European countries, which is wrongly regarded as inconsequential.
On the one hand, in fact, we condemn the fact that the Commission did not inform Parliament of the initiatives undertaken with regard to origin marking.
On the other hand, however, the content of the proposal, on which Parliament has nevertheless succeeded today in issuing its opinion, enables me to express the support of my entire group for a long-awaited initiative that has already been warmly praised in the past by Italy’s centre-right government.
What is more, major trade partners and competitors of the Union, such as the United States, China, Japan and Canada, have equipped themselves with legislation on this matter.
By adopting a regulation on origin marking, Europe too would at last be putting itself on an equal footing with the countries mentioned above, and be preventing unjustified discrimination that would heavily penalise not only European producers, but especially all consumers, including non-European consumers.
The origin marking of products represents a guarantee for consumers that they are finally in a position to link their choices to safety and quality assessments, in addition to assessments of the social and environmental conditions existing in the country in which the products originate.
We need to proceed with transparency and clarity, criteria that are demanded by everyone but then all too often ignored.
We call on the Commission subsequently to monitor the application of the rules, in terms both of labels of origin and of product composition, and we are grateful to the Commission for its swift action, because the swifter the action, the greater the protection of our fellow citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, protectionists are reluctant to admit that their proposals are protectionist but, rather, often hide their intentions.
Mandatory origin marking is an example of this.
The advocates use the Commission’s internet consultation on this issue to back them up, but they neglect to mention that 96.7% of the responses came from a single country, namely Italy, where industry is the driving force on this issue.
The fourth myth is that mandatory marking would provide more consumer protection, as if safety were a question of geography.
This could, at the very most, be of relevance in the case of agricultural products, but they are exempt from this proposal.
To now require it of third countries without recognising that, in this case too, it is protectionism, smacks of hypocrisy, in my view. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I will start by congratulating Mr&#160;Barón Crespo, who regularly draws attention to the Council's lack of tact when it does not involve Parliament sufficiently in decisions on international trade.
We have a long way to go to get the governments to understand the need to get the citizens, and therefore their legitimate representatives here in Parliament, involved in major decisions on international trade.
I would also like to congratulate Mr&#160;Sturdy on his wisdom in working towards this compromise.
Clearer political support will be needed in future, in view of the marked divisions in the European Council.
Unfortunately, the text of the draft regulation contains some editorial errors, and would benefit from some operational clarifications.
Finally, we need to ensure consistency with customs legislation, particularly in the context of the control procedures planned for the future reform of the Community Customs Code, of which the Committee on International Trade would like to be informed, Mr&#160;President.
Ladies and gentlemen, the traceability of products and, in more general terms, intangible elements are elements that add value to products, are necessary in the fight against fraud and counterfeiting and, finally, are a vital tool in the economic and social battle awaiting us.
This economic, social, and also environmental battle, as you know, is a battle for respect for our values.
Very properly, some important questions have been raised about our ability to meet new customs codes, etc.
If we can overcome our disagreement about the method or manner or channel of depositing this proposal with Parliament, we would benefit from concentrating subsequently on the substance of this proposal.
Very simply, it seeks to re-establish a level playing field with our trading partners, many of whom have already instituted forms of origin marking.
For the consumer to be king – or queen – the consumer needs full information, or as much information as possible.
I do not think it is unreasonable that amongst the information that consumers receive is the place of origin of the production or supply of particular goods.
I hope that Members of this House will see the ‘origin marking’ proposal as an alternative to protectionist instincts and measures and not as paving the way for them.
People in Europe are entitled to express or to demonstrate whatever preferences they have.
The debate is closed.
As a Scot, I look with admiration at the role that Sweden and Norway, small independent Northern European countries, have played in promoting dialogue within Somalia and the parties there.
The discussions in that group are the only way forward in terms of finding a solution.
Things in Somalia have now rearranged themselves.
I therefore urge that any action there on the part of the European Union be diplomatic in character. &#160;&#160; .
Instead we have seen bitter and tragic civil war between warring factions, Islamic militia and factions controlled by rival war lords.
That has dramatically changed the political landscape in the region and the power shift has left the outside world in an unsure position as to with whom it should or could negotiate and develop a relationship.
What is required from the EU is to recognise what has happened and to support the work to date of the Arab League, for example, which initiated a dialogue in Khartoum on 22 June between the Transitional Federal Government institutions and the Union of Islamic Courts, which controls the south.
Especially worrisome and worthy of condemnation has been the recent fighting in and around Mogadishu and in the Jowhar region.
Rumours are spreading that the government of Prime Minister Meles Zenawi is dragging IGAD into violating the arms embargo imposed by the UN Security Council in Somalia.
Since 1991, the civil war has been bathing Mogadishu and the neighbouring areas in blood, with devastating consequences for the population.
In the past, global and regional terrorism, with training camps in Somalia, was responsible for the Nairobi, Dar es Salaam and Mombasa attacks, and in the past few days in Mogadishu, the Union of Islamic Courts has executed at least 350 civilians.
We, in this Parliament, have continued for many years to stress the need for Europe to pay more attention to Somalia's problems and to its ambition to become a democratic State once again.
We need to be alert to the danger posed by the political destabilisation plan implemented throughout Africa by the vast network of international extremism, and of the danger posed by Osama Bin Laden's message supporting the supreme council of Somali Islamic courts and opposing the legitimate president of the republic.
The Union and the international community must support and protect the role that President Abdullah Yusuf Ahmed is performing in his country through constant dialogue between institutions and civil society, the aim being to establish federalism in Somalia, while respecting the identities and rights of minorities.
The Union must appoint a special envoy for the Horn of Africa and formally establish a Somali diplomatic representation in Brussels.
From the beginning of July this year, radical forces have gained increasing influence in the territory controlled by the Union.
The new leader of the Council of Islamic Courts is Sheikh Hassan Dahir Aweys, a 60-year old radical Muslim cleric.
Islamist factions have announced their intention to seize power across the whole of Somalia and there is a real danger that the Union of Islamic Courts will attack the northern part of the country which, until now, has been considered a relatively peaceful region.
The human rights situation in the territory controlled by the Union of Islamic Courts has deteriorated to a dramatic extent.
The European Union should take a leading role again in Africa, just as Italy should in Somalia and throughout the Horn of Africa because of its historical precedents.
Somalia has not had an effective national government for over 15 years.
This situation is a serious threat to the peace and reconciliation process in that country.
We have to unequivocally condemn the recent fighting in Mogadishu and the events in Johwar and in other parts of the country, which have claimed the lives of many Somali people.
We must appeal for the dialogue to continue and for the interim federal government and parliament, the central authorities which govern Somalia on the basis of a temporary federal act, to be involved in the cooperation efforts.
The discussion today on Somalia is timely, as the situation of the country and the region as a whole remains very fragile.
The Commission is very much concerned about the risk of Somalia returning to war and to chaos.
Ever since the establishment of the Transitional Institutions in 2004, the Commission has been spearheading the international community’s efforts to support the Somali Transitional Federal Institutions.
I should like to focus my speech on three main aspects: firstly, the current state of play in the dialogue between the Transitional Federal Institutions and the Council of Islamic Courts; secondly, the regional dimension of the crisis in Somalia; and, thirdly, the extent of the Commission’s support for the peace process as the most valuable way to promote respect for democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law.
This agreement was welcomed by High Representative Solana and by the Commission.
On 28 May 2006, President Barroso and Commissioner Michel signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Transitional Federal Government.
The Commission’s humanitarian arm, ECHO, is also providing direct relief assistance to the civilian population affected by the fighting, as well as by the consequences of drought.
Everyone has a responsibility for ensuring the safe delivery of that humanitarian assistance and providing the safe custody and security of the humanitarian workers, all of whom are involved in this very valuable work. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I am pleased that I organised the first discussion platform in 2004 at the European Parliament, gathering together, on neutral ground, Mauritanians from civil society, political parties and official representatives in an effort to pave the way for democracy.
I am pleased that the authorities, together with the Union, have embarked on a more open debate on the fishing agreements with a view to reaching a fair agreement.
Finally – and here I conclude - the anti-immigration cooperation project must help to create jobs in Mauritania and to give migrants a reception that is worthy of the values espoused in Europe. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the press is now talking about Mauritania in terms of its being a model for democracy in Africa, and the EU has officially re-established relations with it, but is the situation really that good?
Major military manoeuvres recently took place in Cap Verde; the plan had originally been that they should be held in Mauritania, and the reason why they were not was that France objected.
This makes it all the worse that some of us Europeans should have completely forgotten this country.
I believe that this is a country that deserves our full support.
Mr President, when you hear of yet another putsch in Africa, you tend to think it is about one autocrat replacing another and carrying on plundering the country; fortunately, though, what happened in Mauritania after the putsch of 3&#160;August 2005 appears to be something different.
I therefore believe that this resolution comes just at the right moment, at a time when an important democratic process has just got under way in the country.
What must be stressed above all today, with this resolution, is the will of the European Union, and of our Parliament in particular, to pay attention to the situation in Mauritania and to the way in which it is evolving, and to help, as much as we can, to implement and to pursue the democratic process since, on 25&#160;June 2005, in fact, it was possible to hold the constitutional referendum.
It also remains for Parliament, for its part, to support a request coming from the Mauritanian authorities, namely that an election observation mission be sent by the Commission to Mauritania for the forthcoming elections: the legislative and municipal elections in November and the presidential elections in March.
It was attended by representatives from Mauritanian political parties and civil society, who were given the opportunity to air their points of view, and by a group of ambassadors from ACP countries.
Mauritania gave 23 undertakings in the areas of respect for democratic principles, fundamental freedoms and rights, the rule of law and good governance.
While recognising that the duration of the transition period will not allow the new authorities to solve all problems, the Commission encouraged them to take decisive action in all those areas.
The undertakings given by Mauritania have, in the Commission’s opinion, addressed all the main problems that the country is facing.
However, given the measures still to be put in hand, the EU will conduct an enhanced political dialogue with the government over an 18-month monitoring period.
The vote will take place at the end of this afternoon’s debates. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on freedom of expression on the Internet(1). &#160;&#160; .
That is why it is so sad and regrettable that today we have to point out that dozens of people are in prison in various countries of the world, though particularly in China, simply because they wanted to communicate and express themselves via the Internet.
Nevertheless, although there is no doubt that the censoring governments are mainly responsible, we must always remember that, in many cases, western companies, many of them European, supply those governments with the instruments and capacity to be able to carry out their control and censorship.
This is true of companies such as Yahoo, Google, Microsoft, Cisco Systems, Telecom Italia, Wanadoo and certain subsidiaries of France Telecom.
We therefore expressly call upon the Council and the Commission to raise this issue in their bilateral meetings with the countries mentioned in the Resolution, particularly China.
Secondly, we want to call upon the Council and the Member States to make public, through a joint communiqué, their commitment to protecting the rights of Internet users and to freedom of expression on the Internet.
In summary, in today’s world, one way to promote and respect human rights is to guarantee freedom of expression on the Internet and to prevent censorship, persecution and imprisonment.
The resolution is critical of the censorship of the Internet that goes on in certain countries, and that is very much to the point, but it is another example of what happens in this House very often, in that we point the finger only at the others, without considering the situation in the European Union itself.
Censorship of the Internet is not a good thing anywhere, not even in the Member States of the European Union.
It welcomes the statement from the world summit in Tunis last November on the prime importance of the information society for democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular freedom of expression and opinion, as well as the freedom to receive and give access to information.
The reality is, of course, that the web provides a fantastic vehicle for change in countries that have to date suppressed freedom of expression and frustrated democracy.
This is particularly the case with China, and we have named a whole series of people involved.
The resolution also tries to deal with the more sensitive issue of involvement by Western, and specifically US and European, technology and companies in providing the capacity for certain governments to censor and filter Internet material.
American companies, for example Google, Microsoft and, in particular, Yahoo, have, in China, stirred up a hornets’ nest.
It must also be stressed that businesses providing search, chat, publishing or other services on the Internet must do everything they can to ensure that the rights of consumers to use the Internet are fully safeguarded.
In China, there are now 48 cyber-dissidents behind bars, simply and solely because they deviated from the path through the Internet mapped out for them by the authorities.
That sort of collaboration runs counter to fundamental European values such as the free expression of opinion and freedom of information.
Free expression of opinion must remain a priority on the Internet, indeed, on the Internet in particular.
The World Summit on the Information Society has placed fundamental human rights at the core of the information society.
The fact is, we are not all equal when it comes to freedom of expression on the Internet, and some States have begun to ban citizens, journalists and others from expressing themselves.
Worse still, Reporters without Borders has made an alarming finding concerning Internet repression and reports that a very large number of Internet users are being held in prison, particularly in China.
We call on the Council and the Commission to demonstrate the same rigour in their international relations and their aid and cooperation programmes.
Yet, we also want to appeal to the responsibility of businesses, particularly European ones, which, by providing technologies or services, are more or less involved in these acts and which ought to commit themselves to subscribing to a code of conduct preventing them from playing a part in censorship, in repression and in persecution.
We might dare to say that the Internet protects this freedom better than any other medium.
By the same token, however, these states are unfortunately running a serious risk of restricting freedom of speech.
If the words ‘Tibet’, ‘dissident’ or ‘China and human rights’ appear, the page is then blocked.
The Internet, which is fundamentally anarchic by nature, is a thorn in the side of governments and bureaucrats, who are not absent from cradles of democracy such as Europe and the United States, either.
The Internet has, in recent years, become a new, universal form of communication.
The Internet is a medium which allows freedom of expression.
China, Iran, North Korea, Syria, Nepal, Cuba and Belarus are using increasingly sophisticated methods to control and restrict freedom of speech.
What is worse, companies such as Yahoo, Google and Microsoft are agreeing to censorship at the request of governments, as is currently the case in China.
This situation is unacceptable.
We have to create a net management system where only illegal activities, such as the dissemination of child pornography or other forms of abuse, will be restricted.
With the use of technologies like MRI and chemical screening, we now know that pornography alters children’s developing brains and stimulates the production of highly addictive brain chemicals.
Researchers have even likened the long-term use of Internet pornography to the devastating effects of heroin.
If Yahoo and Google can censor the web to suit a totalitarian Chinese Government, they can certainly censor the web for the benefit of our children. &#160;&#160; When discussing Internet censorship, it is easy and satisfying to be able to condemn a dozen or so countries spread across a few continents.
If we mention Belarus in the same breath as the Maldives or Nepal, we will not be helping any of these countries in practice.
If the Italian company Telecom Italia is the network operator in Cuba, then the Communist regime censors freedom of expression with this European company’s agreement.
If a branch of France Telecom decides to introduce broadband services together with a Tunisian operator, this move takes place at a time when the Tunisian Government is cutting off access to all opposition Internet sites in that country.
These are the facts.
We have also created wonderful communication tools such as the Internet.
There are many examples of dangers that result from the Internet.
These suggestions concentrate on measures to improve Internet governance and fight human rights violations.
The World Summit on the Information Society held in Tunis in November 2005 reaffirmed the links between the development of the Information Society and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of expression and opinion, as well as the freedom to receive and access information.
This consensus reached during the summit is a basis for us ‘to prevent and counteract threats, risks and limitations to human rights posed by the misuse of information and communication technologies’ as outlined in the Commission’s communication of April 2006 on the summit follow-up.
This code of conduct would constitute an important step towards inspiring these countries to establish respective ethical standards.
Furthermore, we have a policy of bridging the digital divide between rich and poor countries.
Before concluding, let me add a few more words on Internet governance.
I am therefore hopeful that the European Parliament will take this opportunity to launch this dialogue with the representatives of European civil society before the Athens Forum. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at the end of this afternoon’s debates, that is to say in a moment. &#160;&#160; Firstly, I would like to praise this proposal for its timeliness.
It must obtain in all circumstances, although at the same time we need to remember that freedom of expression carries with it a special responsibility.
That is worth remembering at a time when the main theme in society often seems to be worthlessness. &#160;&#160; The next item is voting time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my oral amendment is to avoid ambiguity in recital C.
I propose to insert the word ‘unfortunately’ between the word ‘whereas’ and ‘Somalia’ and to replace the words ‘with a view to restoring order’ with the words ‘with a view to taking charge’.
I hope that the other groups will agree with the PPE-DE Group on that issue.
I believe it is a sensible and understandable oral amendment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, that has to do with the last paragraph, in relation both to Somalia and Mauritania.
I would ask that the resolutions we adopt should, in so far as they relate to Africa, be addressed to the Panafrican Parliament as well. &#160;&#160; Mr President, what has just been said about Somalia should apply in exactly the same way to Mauritania. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, what we in fact need to do, having listened to the Commissioner’s explanations and in order to demonstrate Parliament’s goodwill and the Committee on International Trade’s willingness to cooperate, is to delete from paragraph 2, in which the Commission is mentioned, the adjective, which I will read out in English since that is the original language, ‘even’.
I believe that that is going to improve our relations with the Commission.
The protection of European products (at least when this is entrusted to the clarity of markings, of production processes and of all those guarantees on products that a consumer has a right to know about and that, if you will, are also ethically necessary) is also crucial to the ‘fair competition' that precisely the dominant criteria of the ‘free market' (which should therefore be free, but properly competitive) require.
Origin marking is not in itself a sufficient guarantee of the above, but it does at least represent a first step.
Making origin marking compulsory, as what we are discussing here provides for, is only a first, crucial step in protecting against those products that are flooding the European market, competing unfairly with our products and causing damage to our businesses and our work.
The traceability of a product – the complete transparency of the production process would be better – and an appropriate acknowledgement of the quality and the research and also of the craft and industrial traditions of the nations of Europe are also guarantees designed to protect consumers, as well as European businesses and industries.
