Guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States The next item is the report (A5-0187/2003) by Mr Herman Schmid on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on the proposal for a Council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States (COM(2003) 176 - C5-0180/2003 - 2003/0068(CNS)). .
All the institutions have worked together to reach a good compromise that is now fully in line with the European Council's conclusions, that takes on board most of the European Parliament's views and that is, whilst less ambitious, close to the Commission's initial proposal.
Firstly, full employment: to deliver full employment we need to create up to 22 million jobs if the Union of 25 Member States is to reach the 2010 Lisbon target.
As far as quality and productivity is concerned, this means ensuring not just more jobs but also better jobs.
In principle, these guidelines should remain unaltered for at least three years.
We have also been successful in presenting more focused, simpler and results-oriented guidelines that concentrate on a limited number of major priorities and set out clearly the results we are aiming for.
Emphasis on results also demands that more importance is placed on the recommendations to the Member States.
In streamlining the employment guidelines and the broad economic policy guidelines it is also important to recall the advantages of this new streamlining of the employment policy coordination and the broad economic policy guidelines.
Firstly, the adaptability of people and enterprises must be promoted.
Adaptability requires a good balance between flexibility and security in the labour market.
It also requires investment in entrepreneurship and in helping people and enterprises to cope better with the effects of economic restructuring.
We must increase the participation of women and older workers on the labour market.
We must fully integrate immigrants into the labour market.
Parliament's support was extremely important in securing an agreement on this specific issue.
Let me now address the views of this Parliament.
First of all, a reference to reducing unemployment.
I am happy to report that we now have such a reference in the opening paragraphs of the guidelines, even though Parliament's request went further in suggesting a new target relating to full employment.
It is obvious that this is a very sensitive issue for Member States.
However, it is important to stress that the success of the new European employment strategy ultimately relies on improved delivery and better governance.
This is even more vital when we account for the needs of the new Member States, who have openly recognised the crucial importance of the issue.
I believe that in taking on board many of your expectations, these revisions now reflect the shared views of all parties.
As such, they are an excellent basis to support national employment and labour market policies for the years ahead.
Firstly, we have proposed increased attention to unemployment.
That is not the same as combating unemployment.
There is therefore a need for attention to be paid to this area as an important measure of renewal.
Secondly, we have placed considerable emphasis on the fact that, in an economic situation like the present one, new jobs and new businesses are needed, something that certainly also requires political initiatives.
Above all, we propose that equality be made into an overarching objective alongside the three objectives proposed by the Commission.
Finally, we have agreed to recommend that the Member States' parliaments adopt positions on the national action plans.
The problem has been that European employment policy has not been linked up with, or integrated into, the national policies.
Perhaps we ought to go via the Member States and ask certain Member States at some point to raise this issue in the Council.
We made no less than 16 compromises in the committee and reduced more than 160 amendments to a relatively manageable number.
Firstly, the PPE-DE Group wishes to strengthen the Commission's wording on immigration and immigrant labour and does not want this matter to be addressed in the guidelines.
Irrespective of whether they border upon the EU or are in a particularly exposed position, all European countries face a common global reality whereby we are seeing increased immigration across our borders, something we must deal with in a document on employment policy.
I am therefore opposed to Amendment No 62.
I think that tax systems are very national in character.
If we are to come up with views on this, we must express ourselves in very general terms.
I am therefore opposed to Amendment No 66 by the PPE-DE Group, which is very radical and demands a general reduction in tax for both individuals and businesses in all the Member States but says nothing about how the financial position is to be regarded.
In my own country, Sweden, reducing the tax burden is not at all the thing to do, but I appreciate that matters are different in Germany and other countries.
In conclusion, I just want briefly to say that the Liberals' amendments on tax issues are of a quite different character.
They are interesting, but very drastic.
It is a question of shifting the tax burden from personal taxation to environmental taxation and taxation of consumer goods.
Mr President, there are too many states in the European Union in which the economy is stagnating, and many areas in which reforms have not been implemented.
The Lisbon strategy is an ambitious one, and its implementation must take account of these realities.
It is about reforms to the various systems of taxation and social security benefits - which, Mr Schmid, are in fact matters for the Member States - where a balance is to be maintained between flexibility and security.
Mr Schmid was prepared to take on board many of my group's amendments.
The logical consequence of undermining the Stability Pact, which is so important, would be the loss of public confidence and the weakening of the euro, which is, thank God, a strong currency.
The fact that we now have full employment as an objective is particularly important.
Even if these are two aspects that run approximately in tandem, they do not do so one hundred per cent.
It is also important that the national parliaments be involved and that it be possible to supplement the overarching common objectives by national objectives.
Finally, we fully agree with the need for all stakeholders to be involved, including the parliaments within the Member States.
Mr President, social and employment policies are affected by economic policies.
For this reason, a debate distanced from the economic guidelines is meaningless, as is unfortunately the case with the debate now taking place, despite all the rapporteur's efforts to the contrary.
The Commission's spring forecast predicts that GDP growth in 2003 will not rise above 1% in the Euro area.
This situation should alert us to the need to change the Community's monetarist policies, and in particular to review the Stability Pact, in order to give the highest priority to public investment and other means of promoting employment and social inclusion.
The only problem is that neither the majority in this Parliament nor the Council accept such proposals.
Of course, advocating improved working conditions is a positive step, but proposing an overall reduction in the incidence rate of accidents at work of only 15% (25% in high risk sectors) throughout the Member States by 2010 does not mean a great deal, especially for a country like Portugal, which has the highest rate of accidents at work in the European Union, with an average of one death every working day.
Mr President, I wish to add my group's congratulations to the rapporteur on the great amount of work that he has done on this report in an extremely short space of time.
However, we regret the lack of proper coordination within this Parliament with the broad economic policy guidelines and hope that we can rectify that in the future.
We welcome the general thrust of the report and the Commission's proposals about the coordination with other strategies of the European Union, for example social inclusion.
However, there is still a great underestimation of the importance of the sustainability strategy within this overall package as well.
However, the level of wages is also important and we are well aware that in certain Member States and some of the accession countries even the national minimum wage is effectively a poverty wage.
Mr President, the proposed guidelines for employment policies presented by the Commission for Parliament's consideration are rich in pious generalisations: improving overall employment rates, improving employment rates among women and the elderly, improving quality and productivity of work, strengthening social cohesion and integration into the job market - all of these are generalisations which we have already heard a hundred times, which teach us nothing and which will surely teach the governments of the Member States nothing either.
The points about the better balance between flexibility and security and the importance of entrepreneurship are very important themes in this debate and I will refer to those in my concluding remarks.
I will start by sharing a very short story about the UK, which also has relevance for this morning.
We have enough employment guidelines, the Commission's report was mildly helpful but the Member States already know exactly what they have to do.
I am sorry to say to the rapporteur that much as I support some of the thinking behind what he is saying we cannot support his overall report today.
Mr President, I also wish to thank the rapporteur for the tremendous work he has done under very difficult circumstances to bring this report to us today.
I would also like to thank the Commissioner for what he said and for the effort which the Commission has made to accept amendments from Parliament.
For example, Amendment No 64 concerns the stability pact.
A number of Members have made reference to this amendment already.
This amendment on the overall reduction in the tax burden is incompatible with the one they have tabled on the stability pact and it also concerns an area of responsibility that is reserved for the Member States themselves.
My final point, which is very important, is on Amendment No 23 on the social economy.
Last month I mentioned in the debate on the Cooperative Statute that the social economy had disappeared from the employment guideline package.
I hope we can bring it back in as a result of this amendment.
That is due to the generally poor economic situation, but also to the fact that insufficient efforts are being made to promote adaptability in the labour market.
Training has an important role to play in this process, and I should like today to call for employment policy also to be seen in the context of the initiatives launched jointly by the EU's education ministers with a view to improving the quality of training schemes through their open coordination.
This will be of great importance to our longer-term competitiveness.
We are all agreed that the objective is full employment and that this objective cannot be achieved without a basically sound economy, healthy public finances, a promising investment climate and keen competitiveness - all key elements when the idea is to create jobs.
There is nothing contradictory about this, as parts of this Parliament perhaps appear to believe.
I think that the Council has done a good piece of work in simplifying the employment guidelines.
Many of the guidelines were cobbled together without a thought for what they really needed to contain, which simply means that, in the case of many of the guidelines, the whole process has become less comprehensible and more perfunctory.
I should therefore like to have seen Parliament be more sparing with the welter of amendments, even though our rapporteur has made great efforts to boil matters down to something comprehensible.
The first is an action plan against unemployment.
There is no balance between the long-term strategy of increasing employment participation, for example, and the short-term strategy in a number of other spheres.
The second action plan is an action plan for improving quality at work and increasing productivity.
I feel it is too easy to reach agreement on objectives of this kind.
The problem arises - and it is a problem which we are failing to address - when it comes to defining options, taking decisions or calling for specific decisions to be taken.
Young workers - Germans, Italians and Europeans in general - are paying through unemployment for excessively large pensions to be provided for workers retiring too early.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the employment policies of the Member States should focus on clear priorities, taking into account the current economic climate, the requirements of an enlarged European Union and better implementation of the Lisbon strategy.
The Stability Pact is an essential instrument for guaranteeing good public finance management on the part of the Member States and for ensuring sustainable growth and the smooth functioning of Economic and Monetary Union.
Secondly, immigration as a response to the overall job creation strategy should be strictly regulated.
Finally, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Vitorino, who expressed very well the need for a balance between security and flexibility as essential factors for competitiveness and productivity in Europe.
If we take into account the economic climate and the experience we have gained in recent years on the European employment strategy, it would appear that the Commission has already endeavoured in its proposals to define specific objectives which I consider to be particularly important because they are in line with the recommendations made by the Commission on the basis of the evaluation of national employment plans.
I therefore believe that this strategy is becoming increasingly specific.
The Commission, the rapporteur and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs have defined precisely a number of aspects of the Commission's communication, such as the need to invest in quality and services to make female employment a reality.
The amendments adopted in committee are along these lines.
I feel these are tangible goals.
At present, it is a question of 15 Member States; tomorrow, of 25.
The fact is, too, that the longer the delay in reforming the labour markets, the more difficult the situation becomes.
The guidelines should therefore be more overarching and concentrate on measures that, together with the economic policy guidelines, genuinely lead to economic growth and consequently to more people employed and thus to the provision of resources for things like education and health care.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur at the outset on his tremendous work on this report.
Of course, we have a right to be consulted under the Treaty obligations and we should always utilise such opportunities to put forward the ideas that we as representatives of the citizens of the European Union wish to see promoted.
I have difficulty with some aspects of the report, in particular regarding the introduction of issues related to the Stability and Growth Pact.
In our view, there is a need to put forward ambitious objectives and pragmatic specific measures, with new and innovative approaches and more local and regional initiatives - all of which you have included in your report.
What I would like to tell the honourable lady Member from Sweden is that the German labour market might well be in need of reform, but there is not one Member State of the European Union in which the removal of protection against dismissal has helped to create jobs.
Mr President, the adoption of the guidelines on employment is of particular importance to Parliament, especially today with the Commission presenting a revised proposal with a limited number of objectives, which constitute the pillars of the European social model in the new economy.
In this light, the adoption of the rapporteur's report by a broad majority in Plenary is not just the only way forward, but is also an obligation towards the European citizens whose interests we represent.
The initiative taken by the Commission appears to confirm the priority of quality competition, which is bound up with the quality of employment and the quality of public services.
Thus, we should be calling for maximum coordination with the European Charter for Small Enterprises, which places emphasis on promoting enterprises based on knowledge and innovation, and urging a rapprochement between industrial policy and the demands of the European social model.
Finally, I should like to congratulate the Commission, which is placing particular emphasis on very close, more active participation by the national parliaments and on the mobilisation of local societies, with corresponding, specific commitments to increase employment, an idea which I too have supported in the past.
In this way, we shall achieve not only a broadening of responsibilities on employment issues, but also the development of healthy competition between the individual regions of a country.
Furthermore, the right of each and every citizen of the European Union to work is enshrined in Article 15 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
The task of the European ruling class, and the European Parliament in particular, is to rewrite the model of the social market economy, to modernise it, to revise it without reducing the social undertaking.
Wage differentiation, which has consistently been advocated in theory but has often been disregarded in practice, must become a genuine goal for Parliament, which must specify clearly and resolutely the process to be followed to achieve it.
The dialogue on the bargaining structure will have to reinforce both the company level and wage differentiation; where the company level is reinforced, productivity is enhanced and individual contributions are appraised.
Clearly, in order to achieve these goals, it is necessary to match bargaining at national level with bargaining at company level.
We must therefore avoid giving way to populism in these major reforms and endeavour to take resolute, practical, achievable steps forward.
For the benefit of Commissioner Vitorino, I wish to mention a couple of amendments that we Christian Democrats, including myself, have been involved in wording.
It is a question of the demographic challenge which, in Stockholm in March 2001, was identified as one of the Union's most important issues for the future.
It is estimated that, by 2050, the European Union will have 40 million more pensioners than at present and, thus, 40 million fewer people of working age.
It should be more a question of children having the right to more time with their parents than of our necessarily having to develop a form of childcare that gives children less time with their parents.
Amendment No 9 is also important.
It is about the need to strengthen the taxpaying ethic, about competition on equal terms between companies and about stepping up the fight against undeclared working.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m.
The next item is the report (A5-0172/2003) by Mr Hernández Mollar on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on the proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the EU-USA agreements on judicial cooperation in criminal matters and extradition ((INI)2003/2003).
Fourthly, these agreements should also provide an opportunity to strengthen our internal legislation, making it more efficient.
Finally, I should like to turn to the most sensitive issue, namely the procedure announced by the Council in the course of the most recent debate in plenary.
We have failed to note a positive response to our request for formal consultation between the decisions on signature and ratification of the agreements.
One reason is because consultation must be the norm for the adoption of acts pertaining to the third pillar, including acts that fall into the category of international agreements.
For all these reasons we believe that consultation with Parliament is the only procedure that would comply fully with the principles of democracy and the rule of law referred to in Article 1(6) of the Treaty on European Union.
We feel that a Council decision to consult the Parliament concerning ratification of the treaties based on Articles 24 to 38 would be very much in line with the Treaty.
One must recognise that these agreements under Articles 24 and 38 are negotiated by the Council.
Therefore, in this debate the Commission participates as it is associated to the negotiating process, but the Council of Ministers has the final word.
We would like to recognise the efforts made by the Belgian, Spanish, Danish and now the Greek presidencies to launch these agreements following the decision taken by the European Council after the events of 11 September 2001.
On the basis of this authorisation, and the directives for negotiations that were adopted by the Justice and Home Affairs Council, the Commission welcomes the fact that this consultation procedure should be concluded in time to allow for signature by the European Union and the United States of America during the summit at the end of this month.
One of the criteria for this assessment is the added value of a Union agreement compared with the situation that currently exists on the basis of bilateral agreements between Member States and the United States of America.
In addition to the incontestable advantages that the agreements on extradition and mutual legal assistance with the United States will bring in terms of concrete judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the fight against organised crime and terrorism, I would focus on the following, trying to address some of the major concerns raised by this Parliament.
Regarding protection against the death penalty, the draft extradition agreement compares with the strongest anti-death penalty clauses that can be found in existing bilateral treaties, whether an agreement with a Member State or one with a candidate country.
This means that as far as all the other bilateral agreements are concerned, this anti-death penalty provision is stronger in the current European Union agreement than in the vast majority of others.
In addition it allows the invoking of all grounds for refusal available pursuant to a bilateral extradition treaty between a Member State and the United States, and will open the possibility of consultation in the event that constitutional principles or final judicial decisions binding upon a requested state may impede the fulfilment of an extradition.
As regards Article 10 of the draft extradition agreement, and in particular the situation of an extradition request that conflicts with a European arrest warrant, a Member State confronted with such a situation of conflicting requests shall take into account a number of criteria in order to take a decision that widely corresponds to the lists of such competing requests already provided by the framework decision creating the European arrest warrant.
In addition, the final wording of the agreement drafted very recently at the last negotiation session has improved in the sense that it better underlines the fact that the framework decision on the European arrest warrant could be amended in the global context of further European Union integration.
Finally, regarding data protection provisions, the relevant provision in the draft mutual legal assistance agreement with the United States is modelled on the two most recent European texts: the European Union's Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters of 2000 and the Council of Europe's Convention on Cybercrime.
As has already been mentioned, this is the first time that extradition and legal cooperation agreements have been concluded between the European Union and a third country.
Overall, we support the two agreements before us, but there are certain aspects which it is essential to safeguard.
I hope the necessary guarantees will be made in these areas when the agreements are signed at the European Union-United States Summit on 25 June.
The reservation on extradition is therefore quite clear.
It would be ridiculous for this not to be the case when the European arrest warrant takes precedence even over a Member State's request.
Finally, I should like to revisit the issue of the political wisdom of signing the agreement without dealing with the situation in Guantánamo.
The only possible explanation is the wish to avoid accountability to Parliament.
I just hope Commissioner Vitorino is right that the preamble and the text will ensure that no extradited European citizen or resident will face the death penalty, and that no European will end up in Guantánamo Bay without charge or without trial or will face a military tribunal which has the power to impose a death penalty without appeal.
I also hope time will prove that the Member States' obligations to the International Court are not compromised, because otherwise there really will be outrage in the European public.
I am sorry the Council is not here today to hear our objections.
Mr President, my group has grave concerns about the agreement that the Council wishes to conclude with the United States.
In fact, the state in question does not respect the law, and, in my opinion, we do not have to honour any legal ties, or at any rate judicial or penal ones, with it.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate our chairman, Mr Hernández Mollar, on the contortions he has had to perform in order to bring this text to plenary.
We can demand clarity and transparency from the United States with regard to what is happening at that base, but we must not hinder the progress of an agreement whose effect is much wider than that, which is, in other words, in the interests of world security, not just US security.
Mr President, Mr Vitorino said at the beginning of this debate that it is important and sensitive legislation.
Over the last 25 years over 840 people have been executed following many of the murders in the United States.
Murders are carried out equally by white people and black people, and yet some 15 times as many black Americans have been executed as white people.
I am surprised that you voted against it in committee.
In short, this is an agreement that cannot just be rushed through.
The agreements between the United States and the EU are, of course, really about integrating the EU countries' and the United States's criminal law and rules of criminal procedure or, at any rate, essential aspects of these.
In the Nordic countries, specialists in the field thought that the low point had been reached with the two framework decisions concerning the European arrest warrant and measures for combating terrorism, but matters are now still worse.
Note that the only professional investigation implemented by the institutions of the EU concerning these crucial issues of legal policy are open to serious criticism on the grounds of principle due to the fact that, in the context of the rights that are a crucial part of our democratic basis of values, the EU's acts violate a range of basic principles in the fields of criminal law and procedure.
As I say, these agreements make matters still worse.
The American investigation services will, moreover, subsequently be permitted to operate within the Member States.
Mr President, the Hernández Mollar report provides an excellent commentary on the content of the extradition and readmission agreements between the US and the EU.
The report rightly supports the two agreements, but the tone of the resolution with regard to the United States is too critical.
The sense of moral superiority exuded by the resolution and this debate, too, is therefore inappropriate.
Mr President, the present text of the resolution leaves nothing to be desired as regards clarity.
The European Parliament's message is: the draft agreements must not be concluded unless the Council removes some fundamental objections on the part of Parliament.
The administration of justice in the United States does not provide sufficient guarantees for the rights of suspects.
This situation is exacerbated by the new legislation and practices in the United States since 11 September.
If the European Union wishes to take its own legal protection seriously, it must only conclude the two agreements with the United States once the guarantees called for by the vast majority in Parliament have been incorporated into them.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although these agreements on judicial and police cooperation are extremely important, our values must still be respected.
I would like to ask two questions.
Given that the death penalty still exists in the USA, even if we conclude an agreement that would prevent it from being carried out, the problem remains: the death penalty is counter to our values.
The case of the Guantánamo Bay prisoners is the most flagrant illustration of the fact that the USA does not respect fundamental rights, insofar as it has brought these men before special courts and completely violated their right to defence.
In conclusion, what guarantees do we have that the USA will in fact respect an agreement signed with the Union, when it does not respect its international obligations, ignores international law, and considers itself above the law and entitled to take unilateral decisions as shown in its attack on Iraq?
Mr President, the events of 11 September were tragic and deeply unforgivable.
According to the agreements, European citizens who are alleged to have committed a crime carrying a sentence of at least one year may be extradited to the United States - a country that, as many have pointed out, practises the death penalty.
In no way can I support the thinking behind these international agreements, and I am therefore voting against the report, but I should like to call for support for the amendments tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left.
Mr President, I wish to say that it is indeed infuriating that the Council is absent from a debate such as this, especially when the European Parliament had already given the Council advance warning during the previous Plenary.
It would be good if the Commission and the Council were to pay attention when the European Parliament gives advance warning, especially on such important issues.
Perhaps the Council's only justification for not being here would be if its President-in-Office were locked away somewhere reading the Amnesty International report for 2003, which tells us that the big threat to rights today are the measures being taken by the United States at global level on the pretext of 11 September in the aim of undermining and withdrawing citizens' democratic and other rights.
The United States are exporting them to us and we, with no shame whatsoever and, unfortunately, with a Greek Presidency, are importing them under these agreements.
I should like to ask Commissioner Vitorino to give us his opinion.
Commissioner, as long as you are here and are not yet Secretary General of ????, why in your opinion in Article 13, which refers to the question of a request for a person who may face the death penalty to be extradited, does the agreement read: 'the request for extradition may be denied' by the European Union to the United States of America rather than ' will be denied'?
I shall begin with Article 13.
The US-EU agreement is a bilateral agreement that regulates the relationship between the European Union and the United States of America.
It does not regulate the relationship between the Member States of the European Union among themselves or the obligations that Member States have under other international legal instruments.
All the Member States have subscribed to the European Convention on Human Rights and to the specific protocol that forbids the death penalty.
Therefore, nothing prevents the Member States from deciding what they want to do as far as a request from the International Criminal Court is concerned, irrespective of any bilateral agreement with the United States of America.
However, unfortunately, the Council did not adopt the Commission's proposal on the primacy of the European arrest warrant.
The framework decision on the European arrest warrant already recognises that when there is a demand under a European arrest warrant and a simultaneous demand for extradition by a third country, there are a number of criteria that will have to be taken into consideration in order to decide which demand has primacy.
So we are not changing the legal system of the European Union.
The Commission regrets that this primacy was not recognised in the past when the Council adopted the European arrest warrant.
I hope that sooner or later we will do that.
In my interpretation, everything that might be considered as a demand for extradition to a court where the rule of due process is not respected can give leverage to the application of this Article 16a on non-derogation.
Finally, I sincerely hope that in the future Constitution we will have specific provisions not only on consultation of Parliament concerning these kinds of agreements, which will become more frequent in the future, but also concerning the competence of the European Court of Justice to guarantee the full compliance of these agreements with the future Constitution of the European Union.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m.
With this text, which complements the other three proposals, on family reunification, economic immigration, and the status of long-term residents, the Commission brings to a close the legislative work aimed at laying the foundations of a joint legal immigration policy, since we have decided not to table a proposal designed to cover all individuals not included under the previous proposals.
This proposal integrates immigration policy but should also be viewed in the context of Community action in the field of education.
The proposal for a directive was devised in this spirit.
This is also, I believe, an innovative proposal which fits into the context of the growing internationalisation of education, especially the recognition of students' right to move to another Member State to continue their studies, after previously being admitted into a first European Union Member State.
The proposal also covers the vocational training sector, setting entry conditions for unremunerated trainees such as those who come to take up a placement with a company.
The proposal contains a public order and security clause providing Member States with enough room to manoeuvre for them to take precautions against the terrorist threat, in particular.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by way of introduction to my speech, I would like to thank most sincerely all the shadow rapporteurs from all the groups.
It is vital that our countries offer an appropriate welcome to foreign students, just as it is vital to have a common policy on this welcome.
In this way we can contribute in a positive manner to the training of future executives in third countries and increase cooperation with these countries in terms of education in order to meet the challenge of the internationalisation of teaching.
This proposal for a directive would make it possible to achieve significant progress that we can all support.
We are entering into a strategy that aims to increase cooperation with third countries in terms of teaching as set out, for example, in the Erasmus World programme.
The votes in committee allowed a few clarifications to be made and I shall now cite some of these.
Receiving third-country nationals for study purposes must not lead to an increase in brain drain from these countries.
We would similarly like to see an improvement in procedural guarantees and we therefore propose reducing the deadline for notifying applicants of decisions on applications for admission or renewal from 90 days to 60 days.
Where the study programme is shorter than one year but longer than nine months, like many programmes, it would be a shame not to grant a one-year residence permit to enable students to work during the holidays preceding or following the study programme in order to earn some of the money required for their stay, or to improve their knowledge of their host country for a few weeks.
The proposal for a directive grants students and unpaid researchers the possibility of working for a maximum of 10 to 20 hours per week.
This right is essential in order to allow third-country nationals to boost their income in order to live decently.
Furthermore, with regard to unpaid researchers, I believe it is very important for trade union representatives to be informed of their specific situation in order to be able to monitor compliance with the provisions of the directive.
Withholding the right to work in the first year of residence or withdrawing the right to work if students do not make sufficient progress in their studies is unjustifiable and would tend to encourage illegal employment and exploitation of these nationals.
Where there is insufficient progress in studies, attested to by the teaching establishment, the Member State could possibly have the option of reducing the number of working hours so that the student could devote more time to their studies.
We have the concerns of some Member States about the possible effects of the right to mobility and the right to work granted to students.
I understand these concerns, but the proposal for a directive itself contains responses to this, in particular with regard to the mobility of students, which is very clearly defined, with specific conditions, in Article 7.
A change in status from student to immigrant worker is of course possible, but is outside the scope of the directive in question.
The rapporteur has included in the report a number of amendments aimed at ensuring that this directive covers third-country nationals who are unpaid researchers.
I would also like to remind you of the Lisbon strategy, approved at the European Council on 24 March 2000, in which the challenges facing the Union in the new knowledge-based economy were set out.
We therefore welcome this proposal, which is another step towards approximating national legislation on admission and residence conditions for third-country nationals, the final goal being to create a comprehensive legal framework regulating admissions on the basis of the reasons for immigrants' visits.
For all these reasons, I think that the Commission's proposal is quite positive.
It constitutes a forward step in strengthening cooperation with third countries and in developing that quality education.
Mr President, we are all agreed that never has so much been achieved to promote the future of Europe with so little money as through the Erasmus programme.
Offering young people from other states the opportunity to spend some of their formative years in Europe is something we should all be seeking to do, because we all stand to benefit from it.
Mr President, the proposals presented to us aim to encourage further the entry of immigrants into the European Union.
In its frenzy to allow needy foreigners from all over the world into a Europe that it would like to be respectful of human rights and to have a humanist, not to say humanitarian, vocation, the Commission is planning the death of nations by drowning and suffocation.
It should be noted, however, that this report, even though it supplements the measures that have already been presented with regard to immigration for the purposes of employment and family reunification, does not take the same approach.
This exchange and this form of cooperation between Europe and third countries is clearly a source of intellectual enrichment between students of the country of origin and the host country.
Mr President, this is a very timely report.
The number of students undertaking such international exchanges is greater than ever and demand continues to grow.
I congratulate the rapporteur on this report.
It sets a broad framework to encourage third-country nationals to enjoy the best educational facilities available in Member States without over-prescribing and over-regulating.
However, I am afraid certain elements of this proposal are problematic for my country, the United Kingdom.
The national minimum wage is one of the greatest steps forward in the United Kingdom since 1997.
Unfortunately aspects of this report, referring to volunteers, undermine the minimum wage in the United Kingdom, which seeks to protect the rights of both migrants and nationals, ensuring that those engaged on a voluntary basis, without adequate conditions of service, are not there in place of a full- or part-time worker.
However, a knowledge-based Europe can only exist through exchanges, in particular exchanges with third countries.
By allowing easier, more homogenous access for students, researchers and volunteers, we are also allowing Europe and our fellow citizens to enrich and share their knowledge and experiences.
Thank you, Commissioner Vitorino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m.
For that reason the time has come for this Parliament to consider whether or not it can recreate direct access to Strasbourg.
Our democratic legitimacy, in terms of the votes that we take on important issues, is bound to be diminished if Members are prevented from participating in the democratic process because of action of that sort.
On 13 May, Austria experienced its first national strike in fifty years, on the same subject: pension protection.
The problem is that the Stability Pact is not completely binding upon all the Member States.
What, of course, we have here is a document with guidelines for 25 Member States.
Mr President, criticism has already been expressed this morning of the ways in which strikes are bringing life in France to a standstill.
The term has to be incorporated in all versions of the original Article 12.
Before the vote on Amendment No 10: Mr President, the adoption of Amendment No 6 makes it necessary to make a technical correction to Article 33 (1) and to Article 34 (1).
The House has been divided and different groups have had the opportunity to put on the record their preferred optimum solution amongst the options available.
We can go with a 'yes' or we can go with a 'no', but there is no debate on the basis of 'yes, but...'.
I ask people to reflect overnight and when we come tomorrow to vote in the light of the Commission's opinion, to give to those charged to represent this House the widest, most thorough mandate possible to say: 'This is what is available; this what we bring forward; and this commands the support of a great majority of Parliament'.
Most of the House maintained that Article 63(3) of the EC Treaty could not constitute a valid legal base: it does concern the adoption of common measures to repatriate illegal residents, but this provision would authorise measures concerning content rather than procedure.
Here, in fact, Parliament is showing its normal pro-immigration bias: what it does not like about this draft is that it might facilitate the repatriation of illegal immigrants.
Of course, we did not support it. . (PT) Due to the need for consistency with the position previously adopted by the European Parliament in plenary session on 11 December 2000, when the French initiative - which lacked any legal basis - proposing the adoption of a directive on mutual recognition of decisions concerning expulsion of third-country nationals, was rejected, I do not feel able to adopt any other stance on this initiative than a similar rejection.
She reduces national legislations and legal ordinances to an unacceptable level of subordination, in the belief that blanket application of Community law is the panacea which will solve all Europe's problems.
The reason is that if the PPE-DE Group does not get this proposal through, that group will vote against the whole report.
If the whole report were to fall by the wayside, that would be far more serious than this individual proposal going through.
The term employment policy is completely misleading.
The proposed measures are essentially measures to reinforce the unaccountability of big business by granting it new privileges.
The workers are not only rejecting these measures, but are also reacting proactively and en masse against pro-monopoly choices by stepping up their fight. . (SV) We believe in the principle of subsidiarity whereby decisions should be taken as close as possible to those they affect.
All other issues should be dealt with at local, regional or national levels.
The same applies to labour market policy.
We need a more effective partnership between the Member States.
In order to foster the participation of women in social life and the labour market, we need to define a series of specific actions aiming to provide services that correspond to childcare needs, but which also enable us to provide assistance for families with other dependents.
It is essential to invest in public services in order to respond to the needs of families and society as a whole and it is vital for all the actors concerned to be involved in implementing employment strategy.
This policy falls within the context of the Lisbon strategy which aims to make Europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
What is even more important is that the resolution retains the objective of increasing the average age at retirement by five years at Community level by 2010, while millions of people are demonstrating in France and in other European countries against this idea and to protect their pension systems.
The training of students and researchers is a key sphere of action for increasing well-being, information and the quality of life, to which the Union is committed, in particular through the various association agreements and development funds.
In the end, I voted in favour of this report, because Amendments Nos 36 and 37 have been adopted, adding considerable balance to the arrangements laid down in Articles 11(1) and 18(2)... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Article 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out, on behalf of all my colleagues in the French Socialist delegation and on my own behalf, our position on the report on the adoption of a Statute for Members.
The Statute needs to be adopted as a matter of urgency due to the imminent completion of the current enlargement process.
That is why the French Socialist delegation wished to amend the text by voting for Amendment No 8 to Article 7 of the draft Statute, which it tabled alongside other political groups.
In the current context, increasing remuneration for Members of the European Parliament would run the risk of causing an unfavourable reaction, at a time when the legitimacy of differences in remuneration between the economic and political elite and the rest of the population is in question.
I actually wanted to vote in favour of Amendment No 8 to Article 16, rather than against it, as I am of course in favour of differential weighting of living expenses.
In view of the ongoing debate about how best to secure Europe's pension schemes, people will see the idea, contained in the Statute and in an amendment, of pensioning MEPs off as early as 60 or 63, as a provocation.
It is not only in my own country that people are, at present, being told that they will have to work for longer; in the European Parliament, on the other hand, the intention is obviously to guarantee politicians early retirement, which is not what social policy demands.
Neither can I, nor will I, vote for a Statute for the Members of the European Parliament in this form.
We have been able to compromise on some matters but there are others of principle on which we will not compromise.
We cannot support the draft Statute, since our Amendment No 30 on national taxation has been rejected.
Joint funding via income tax is required for funding our common welfare policy.
We therefore believe that Members of the European Parliament should pay national tax in their own countries.
We believe that salary levels too cause offence, since the new levels are very high. . (FR) Under the aegis of the new Article 190(5) of the EC Treaty, introduced by the Treaty of Nice, this House has just drawn up a draft unified Statute for Members of the European Parliament, which should be submitted to the Council for its decision - no longer to be reached unanimously, but by a qualified majority.
The text addresses a number of technical issues that needed to be resolved in any case within the context of the recognised autonomy of the European Parliament to organise its correct internal functioning.
It also goes much further, however, by presenting a statute that standardises at European level all aspects of the situation of members of parliament and cuts essential links with their countries of origin, in particular remuneration.
As we have said a hundred times, Members of the European Parliament need to be paid - as they are today - by the citizens of their country, who elected them and whom they are supposed to represent.
This is a fundamental, if surreptitious, change, of which, once again, our voters are unaware.
Out of honesty towards them, we refused to vote for this draft. . (NL) Mr President, I should like to make a couple of points by way of explanation of how I voted on the Members' Statute.
This is why I voted in favour of Amendment No 8 as well as Amendment No 5.
Secondly, I disagree with a net increase in our salary of at least EUR 2 800 per month.
Furthermore, as we have emphasised, the social realities in the countries of the EU differ greatly, making it inevitable that if this measure is implemented, in various countries, including Portugal, there will be enormous inequalities and disparities between the pay of workers and that of representatives and holders of public office, which would be quite incomprehensible.
In other words, the salary of Members of the EP must be based on the salary of the Members of the national parliament of the country in which they are elected.
Legally speaking, too, Article 12 of the EC Treaty prohibits any discrimination on the grounds of nationality.
Whatever the case may be, it is not the MEPs who determine what they are paid; it is the Council of Ministers that has to approve this proposal.
As regards the pension, I am amazed that the draft report proposed that it be payable from the completion of an MEP's sixtieth year. (Explanation of vote cut short in accordance with Rule 137 (1) of the Rules of Procedure). . (NL) The Statute for Members of the European Parliament has for years been the subject of two debates along completely opposite lines.
I have always been in favour of a uniform salary for all MEPs, provided that this salary is significantly lower than that in France, England and particularly Germany and Italy.
In addition, immunity must only protect freedom of speech of those elected and not lead to impunity in other matters.
The EU's enlargement must not affect political diversity.
Finally, on the question of the implementation date, the EPLP cannot accept under any circumstances a possible post 2004 implementation date.
The EPLP wants to go into the 2004 election campaign with this issue clearly resolved.
As the European Parliament has just voted for a date beyond that period we cannot support the final vote on this report. . (FR) At a time when the peoples of Europe are facing so many difficulties (unemployment, social breakdown, insecurity, etc.), I am not convinced that they will truly appreciate Parliament's determination to get its uniform statute for Members of the European Parliament adopted.
Even though, in legal terms, we sit in this Parliament as the representatives of our respective peoples, they want to make us out to be the representatives of some mythical European people, in other words rootless.
It all follows on logically from Parliament's earlier vote in favour of a uniform electoral procedure, the principle of transnational constituencies or European political parties.
In view of the ongoing debate about how best to secure Europe's pension schemes, the popular view will be that the idea, contained in the Statute and in an amendment, of pensioning MEPs off as early as 60 or 63, is a provocation.
It is not only in my own country that people are, at the present time, being told that they will have to work for longer; in the European Parliament, on the other hand, the intention is obviously to guarantee politicians early retirement, which is not what social policy demands.
Neither can I, nor will I, vote for a Statute for the Members of the European Parliament in this form.
A single European system would mean: subjecting Members to tax arrangements different to those applied to the citizens who voted for them; establishing Members as representatives of a hypothetical 'European people'; detracting from their standing as representatives of their own peoples, whereas they are genuine equals of the members of national parliaments, and disengaging them a little further from national and popular ties of belonging to a Member State.
Consequently, despite having voted in favour of some specific aspects, I have in the end voted against the report, because I wish once again to adopt a position of principle at a time when institutional reform, by autocratic methods, with the Convention at the very centre, appears to wish to develop in a very negative way and balance in the context ... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Article 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (SV) We have today voted against the European Parliament's report on a new Statute for Members, which was however approved by 294 votes, with 171 against and 59 abstentions.
Without a system of travel allowances in which refunds are made on the basis of actual costs instead of, at present, on a flat-rate basis, the new Statute will not lead to increased openness.
Certainly, Parliament's Praesidium determined on 29 May 2003 to investigate a new system of travel allowances, but that still does not solve the problems.
I believe Mr Rothley and the Committee on Legal Affairs as a whole have devoted a lot of time and energy to it, too much in my view since I have the impression that, as with the statute for European political parties, it is really about money.
But we also reject this report because of the trade strategy it advocates, which is in our view mistaken on at least two important points.
As the Mann report again shows, the chief aim of creating regional free trade areas (FTAs) is to ensure the EU has political and economic stability in its relations with the countries concerned (the 'strategic geo-political interests') so that nothing can get in the way of the sacrosanct free movement of goods, services and capital.
While FTAs undermine the non-discriminatory principle of multilateralism, as long as they are WTO-compliant and WTO-Plus, they are incentives and complementary models for new global trade initiatives...', putting the EU forward as a model to follow.
Although some amendments that capture a number of our concerns were adopted, many others were not, and much of the report continues to give very uncritical support to ever greater economic integration.
The result of the vote on paragraph 21 of the proposal, however, has persuaded me to vote against the report.
In this field, which is so sensitive, it is crucial to uphold the decision-making procedure that was agreed on by consensus in Nice, as proposed in Amendment No 12.
It is taking advantage of its economic supremacy not to assist in the development of the countries of north Africa and the Middle East, but to impose its terms on trade and on their internal affairs.
The report goes as far as to call on partner countries to implement policies for convergence with the euro, while pressing for the development of the private sector.
This policy will be stepped up given that, following enlargement, the ?U's attention is turning towards the Mediterranean.
This report raises the fundamental questions underlying the partnership and gives pertinent answers which I support, in particular the need to stress the political dimension of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership in order to foster democratisation and peace, support for Mediterranean civil societies, the systematic inclusion of the human rights issue in follow-up, and the establishment of a genuine Euro-Mediterranean parliamentary assembly at the next EuroMed ministerial conference in Naples in December 2003.
I shall vote in favour of this report in order to give strong backing to the inclusion of these objectives in the MEDA programme.
But this programme alone is today insufficient to cover relations between the EU and its Mediterranean partners.
No additional resources have in fact been provided to this day (for 2003 the MEDA regional funding plan will have EUR 32 million and the 'Euro-Mediterranean investment and partnership facility' EUR 25 million), and the discrepancy between Europe's financial effort for the ten new members and its commitment to the Mediterranean is spectacular, not to say scandalous: EUR 185 of aid per capita for the East, half a euro per head for the Mediterranean. (Explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to Article 137 (1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (PT) I voted for this excellent report.
As everyone knows, the main aim of MEDA, which, in 1995 simplified and combined a disparate series of instruments, is 'to reform economic and social structures and mitigate any social or environmental consequences which may result from economic development' in the Mediterranean basin, in three areas: 1.
The MEDA programme has therefore become the main component of financial cooperation in the Euro-Mediterranean partnership (through non-refundable aid from the Commission or through other instruments coordinated with the EIB).
However, they raise for the first time the question of the interpretation of Articles 38 and 24 of the EU Treaty, introduced by the Treaty of Nice, concerning the conclusion of international agreements by the European Union in the fields of the second and third pillars.
We see here the consequences of badly negotiated treaties.
The Convention on the future of Europe ought to correct that and bring the national parliaments back into play.
For this very reason, it is unacceptable that the Council should have declassified the text of the two draft agreements with the USA, only one month before these, the first agreements in this sphere between the EU and a third country, were due to be signed.
These agreements are all the more significant in political terms because they are being signed at a time when 'security' measures are being implemented that endanger citizens' rights, guarantees and freedoms and when the US is holding hundreds of people under arrest at its military base in Guantánamo, without having accused them or put them on trial, or when it demands that other States give it total immunity from the International Criminal Court.
The current wording of the agreements raises some fundamental issues, such as extradition to a country which still applies the death penalty and which has legislation that in the name of the 'war on terrorism', breaches fundamental rights; personal data protection, applied retroactively, and a lack of control, specifically of the so-called joint investigation teams.
Even the debate on this issue, just a few days after the criminal invasion of Iraq by the British and American forces, constitutes provocation.
Under this agreement, the ?U can hand the citizens of its Member States and their personal data over, with no strings attached, to the jurisdiction of the USA, the prosecuting authorities of which will do as they please far from any democratic control.
This is an agreement at the expense of the citizens of the Member States of the ?U.
This is why I reject the draft agreement on extradition and judicial cooperation, discussed in the Justice and Internal Affairs Council on 8 May.
In fact, my interpretation of Article 21 of the Treaty on European Union diverges from the one put forward in this report, and I believe that the words '...
There is no basis for attempting to give the European Parliament competences similar to those of a national Parliament.
In January, the Commission presented its legislative proposals for a new reform of the CAP.
In addition to the significant adjustments proposed for some sectors, the proposal's main innovations can be seen in what is known as the decoupling and modulation of direct aid paid to producers.
Through modulation, the Commission is attempting to apply an aid reduction rate that would amount to 19% by 2012; around two-thirds of the appropriations thereby freed up would fund future reforms and around one-third would be reserved for strengthening the CAP's second pillar - rural development.
Only farmers receiving less than EUR 5 000 per year would be exempt from this aid reduction.
The proposal that is now being presented here in plenary was adopted by a large majority in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the basis of a compromise proposal tabled by the rapporteur and negotiated with all the political groups.
Consequently, all remaining premiums would continue to be awarded on the basis of the current model; secondly, to support a much more limited form of modulation, of only 6% in the less-favoured regions and of 8% in other regions, since revenue generated in this way will go mainly towards strengthening the second pillar.
The first is that it unequivocally supports a reform of the CAP that makes it more rational from the economic point of view, that will make it easier to implement in an enlarged European Union and which helps to unblock negotiations in the World Trade Organisation.
The second message is that changes of this nature must be undertaken prudently and realistically.
In fact, our position is that aid totally decoupled from production as proposed by the Commission is an interesting model in theory, but poses risks in its practical application and ignores the reality of European farming, the great instability of the markets, which still need border management and protection instruments, and the extremely heterogeneous nature of European farming, in which there are huge differences in income levels and degrees of competitiveness and, consequently, greatly differing effects on the implementation of a decoupled payment scheme.
The third political message is that the risks of production being abandoned following the introduction of a decoupled aid scheme are particularly serious in the outermost less-favoured regions, which have the lowest levels of productivity and which are therefore the least competitive.
This is why Parliament has proposed a lower rate of modulation for these regions, why no decoupled scheme would apply to the outermost regions and why the particular situation of all of these weaker regions would be taken into account, in order to continue to ensure that farmers have alternative means of production.
Fourthly, Parliament also wishes to state that there is no justification, at this stage, for deciding on such a high rate for reducing aid in order to fund future CAP reforms, since we do not yet know either the costs or the timetable of these reforms.
Fifthly, I also wish to emphasise Parliament's commitment to playing a role in strengthening the second pillar of the CAP, particularly by funding new actions to guarantee food safety and quality.
Lastly, it is also worth recalling the proposal that, from 2007, the future decoupled aid scheme will no longer be based on historical reference criteria and will from then be based on two main criteria: the surface area and employment situation of each holding.
To conclude, the European Parliament is thereby making its contribution to adapting the CAP to the new needs and realities that are emerging, but is doing so in a way that avoids or at least minimises the risks of production being abandoned, of increased unemployment and of creating further serious imbalances in some farm schemes, particularly in the less-favoured and outermost regions.
I therefore hope that the Council of Agriculture Ministers, the body responsible for taking the final decision, shares these concerns of Parliament's and forces the Commission to amend its proposal in the negotiations that are now underway. . (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, there are few things that will be as important in the world of the future as sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture.
Unfortunately, these ideas have deteriorated and are still in the process of deteriorating.
I believe it was a deterioration when President Chirac and Chancellor Schröder agreed upon a ceiling which was to have been applied, rather, as a floor for the costs of agricultural policy.
Not even European farmers seem to understand what is in their own best interests.
Opposition to the Commission's proposal for agricultural reform among farmers, among ourselves in the European Parliament and among agricultural ministers must have to do with their not wishing to see the broader context.
I do not intend to talk about the details of any report, but I intend to concentrate precisely on the bigger picture in my speech.
We must change the systems in order to create a healthy world market.
It should be possible for prices on the world market to rise to a level that enables most farmers to produce food, and it is therefore quite obvious that all forms of aid that distort trade must be done away with.
We must remember, however, that the world is not quite as simple as that.
Even with fair prices on the world market, large areas of small-scale European agriculture would still not be competitive.
We have tough requirements in terms of the environment and animal welfare.
The market could in theory pay for account to be taken of values such as quality.
Our requirements could be financed through direct aid from society and, more specifically, from the EU when it came, especially, to matters of collective benefit.
The route from high subsidies and collapsed prices on the world market to healthy trade and pricing must, however, be achieved via a change to the way in which aid is at present provided, that is to say through a decoupling of aid from production.
When they meet for negotiations next week, the agricultural ministers will hopefully realise that a poor decision, or no decision at all, may in actual fact lead to a disaster for farmers, the countryside and also consumers who want to see good food in Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as I am rapporteur on two counts, I will begin, if I may, by presenting the report on reform of the common organisation of the market in cereals, which our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development adopted by a very large majority, and I will then go on to present my second report, on reform of the common organisation of the market in dried fodder, which was also adopted by a very large majority.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considered this dismantling of the oldest and most emblematic of the COMs to be neither timely nor justified.
On the intervention price, as rapporteur I had proposed that account be taken of inflation, which is 25.5% since the 1992 reform, bringing the effective decline in internal prices for cereals in real terms to 56%.
The zero price reduction our committee recommends requires no compensation and there is therefore no need for degression.
So far as the monthly increments are concerned, our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was anxious to point out that these are intended to cover a real economic and financial cost, namely the cost of storage, including the modernisation of silos and bringing them up to standard, especially in the matter of security, and that their abolition would be equivalent to a further reduction in the intervention price, without compensation.
Consistency therefore required that the Commission's two proposals, concerning the intervention price and the monthly increments, be treated in the same way.
For rye, where there is a real problem of surpluses, we propose cutting the amounts allocated for intervention so that cultivation of this cereal can in future be concentrated in areas where it is the last resort before leaving the land fallow and where there is no profitable alternative.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development's proposals therefore differ from the negative measures placed on the table by the Commission, which do not seem to us to give the cereals sector any real prospects of development.
I will turn now, if I may, to the common organisation of the market in dried fodder.
If our Parliament adopts the report that its Committee on Agriculture is laying before it, it will be clearly reaffirming the position it previously adopted in the Stevenson report, which called on the Commission to quickly find and put in place the necessary means for reducing this very serious handicap, this strategic dependence, this monstrous vegetable protein deficit, which amounts to more than 75% of our needs.
Our Committee on Agriculture also considered that the environmental balance in dried fodder could in no way be limited to a vague and unimaginative consideration of fossil fuel consumption.
If all economic activities that consume fossil fuels were banned, you would have come to Brussels on foot, Commissioner.
Moreover, there are no genetically-modified varieties of alfalfa in Europe.
We therefore propose, in agreement with the sector, that 'contracts for progress' be concluded, whereby dehydration units will be able to commit to improving their efficiency, their yield, their energy balance.
That is why we are proposing the creation of a research fund financed from a small levy on aids granted to the sector.
Commissioner, the least protected open markets are also the most vulnerable.
Effectively, through this proposal, the Commission is passing the burden of responsibility for finding solutions to famine in the third world on to rice producers.
In its report, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development endorsed the Commission's decision to reduce the intervention price for rice so as to bring it into line with world prices.
The price of husked cargo rice would therefore not be above 180 or 188% of the intervention price, depending on whether the rice is Indian or Japonica.
The Committee on Agriculture believes it would be wise to do away with the maximum price system that has resulted in the current situation.
This is a splendid piece of work, for which I would like to thank most warmly all those Members of this House who have worked with me with this end in mind, showing goodwill, expertise and a willingness to compromise.
The Commission has presented a package of legislation on the dairy sector, and it is one that we very much welcome, including as it does such measures as the retention of the milk quota up to 2015.
We aim to maintain sustainable and extensive production of milk, especially on grassland.
This makes the retention of the milk quota system until 2015 right and vital, and - as we want to make reliable policies - let there be no bringing forward of what was decided under Agenda 2000.
The price reductions decided on in Agenda 2000, some of which have already been implemented, have already given us more room to manoeuvre in the WTO.
The 50 cents proposed are definitely inadequate.
The Agriculture Committee proposes that this be reconsidered in 2008, when experience will have been gained of decoupling, re-coupling, or simplification in other sectors.
It is important, as regards both the milk reports, that a similarly good voting result should be achieved in the plenary as in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Sustainable land use can take the place of much environmental, social and regional policy.
Nobody could oppose these objectives, but today we have to tell you that the instruments you wish to use are not only mistaken, because they are not valid in terms of achieving the proposed objectives, but that, most seriously, they move in the opposite direction.
The decoupling proposed to us for certain sectors as an instrument capable of creating a new model for agricultural policy is not viable if you maintain the criterion of historical references in order to set the decoupled aid by farm.
According to the information that you yourself have provided, in 2001 5% of European farmers received 50% of the direct subsidies.
You cannot ask us to accept the validity of this great imbalance in the distribution of aid in order to support the implementation of a new CAP.
In the herbaceous sector, a model in which you propose total decoupling, 3% of farms receive 40% of the support.
You should therefore introduce the criterion of territory, the criterion of agricultural surface area, the criterion of employment generated and of the environmental benefits contributed by the farm and then we will be in a position to talk about genuine multifunctional aid.
Of a genuine decoupling of aid to production, but of a genuine coupling of aid to producers and their farms.
You yourself recognise that this proposed decoupling will create serious problems for many small and medium-sized farms, in less favoured and less productive areas.
If that is the case, change it, Commissioner, because otherwise we will be banishing many of the European Union's small and medium-sized farms from the agricultural system.
What is now proposed to us following the budgetary Council in Brussels on 24 and 25 October - where the Community budget was cut - is that just 6% of the modulation should go to rural development, leaving the rest to fund sectoral reforms in the first pillar.
It is true, as you say, that this is a Council agreement and that the Council therefore has political responsibility for it, as do those people who, like my government, applauded it and who lied to the farmers, telling them that they would guarantee sufficient budget until 2013.
I would ask you to be a little more rebellious, to make a little more effort, if you really believe that rural development has to be strengthened in order to create a more sustainable and fairer CAP.
This reform, essentially, does not provide cohesion, it does not contribute more social justice to an agricultural policy which is in great need of it.
I would ask you to reflect and to modify this proposal.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the Greek Government took over the Council Presidency on 1 January 2003, the reform of the common agricultural policy was one of its focal points.
Thus, negotiations to close this dossier were one of the main objectives of the Greek Presidency, in cooperation of course with the European Commission and the European Parliament.
The Presidency drew positive conclusions from this procedure and decided to give impetus to the negotiations by creating a High Level Group.
The role of this group was mainly to prepare the crucial summit of Council ministers in June.
The push towards reaching an agreement was reinforced at the Council on 26 and 27 May, when Commissioner Fischler and I met each minister in order to identify basic problems and possible solutions and reach an honest compromise.
The European Parliament is a particularly important factor in the procedure to formulate the future common agricultural policy.
Your resolution in November 2002 on the Commission communication gave the Commission important pointers for the orientation of its legislative proposals.
I should like at this point to thank all the rapporteurs, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and, of course, all the members of the Committee on Agriculture, who managed in such a short space of time to complete their efforts and vote on the truly interesting reports on the Commission's package of proposals.
This consistency on the part of the European Parliament, and especially the Agriculture Committee, will allow the House to give its opinion on the European Commission's proposals in good time, thereby enabling our Council to pursue an honest and sincere compromise.
This compromise will not ignore the European agricultural model based on family holdings or the multifunctionality of agriculture or, of course, the needs of less favoured areas, as confirmed by the European Council in Brussels in October 2002.
Allow me now to refer to the most important issues in our overall endeavour.
The first is decoupling.
One initial issue is the entry into force of the system.
The view expressed by certain members of our Council with so-called partial decoupling is also particularly important.
There are also Member States who have expressed themselves in favour of the derogation from decoupling for certain products while, on the other hand, other Member States have come out in favour of the integration of more products, in order to avoid competitive phenomena between the productive sectors.
The opinion of the European Parliament on this crucial issue will, I hope, help us find a satisfactory solution.
Most Member States have expressed reservations as to the franchise level of EUR 5 000 for the derogation from the obligation to gradually reduce support, whereas others wish for an intermediate scale to be provided for, which will allow for the more progressive application of gradual reductions on the larger and more competitive holdings.
Other issues on which the views of the Member States diverge are the need to safeguard small and medium-sized producers, the application of principles of social justice and the wish for more straightforward administration on farm holdings.
We must not forget that the arrangements also aim to save resources, which will be used to fund future reforms of the common organisation of the markets.
In other words, because agricultural resources are specific, any increase in the franchise or any other similar arrangement must not jeopardise either the funding of future reforms in dairy products, sugar or Mediterranean products or the financial ceiling.
Almost all the Member States take a positive position on this measure in principle.
The problem lies in the fact that this endeavour is considered to involve an excessive administrative and financial cost, which is disproportionately high in relation to the objective pursued.
Ladies and gentlemen, various measures have been proposed within the framework of the Community policy on rural development, in the aim of responding better to the concerns of society as regards environmental protection, compliance with Community standards in the agricultural sector, improving the conditions in which animals are kept and higher food specification standards.
It became clear during the various stages of discussion of the new measures that the reform of the common agricultural policy must be the starting point for simplifying the Community farming development policy.
At sectoral level, the European Commission's proposals need improving so that the Council can adopt them within the framework of an overall package.
Finally, the reform of the common agricultural policy must include specific measures for young farmers, who represent the future of European farming, and specific arrangements for disadvantaged, isolated and problem areas of the European Union currently threatened with abandonment.
I should like now to refer to the financial aspects of the proposals for the reform of the common agricultural policy.
Discussions in the Council have focused on the anticipated financial impact of the proposed market measures and the financial aspects of the main elements of the reform proposals from linked payments, gradual reduction and modulation.
The Commission's expenditure forecasts show that the modulation and gradual reduction measures are required in order to safeguard compliance with the financial ceilings set by the summit in Brussels in October 2002.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, our Council has accepted that the present economic climate is such that we need to go one step further in adjusting the common agricultural policy.
We all need to recognise that the common agricultural policy was never static and that it has always responded to changing circumstances by adjusting existing and creating new means.
These decisions have always been founded on the Community method, which means cooperation between the institutions and compromise between the Member States within the framework of the Council.
With pragmatism and good will, which have always been demonstrated both by the institutions and the Member States, I am optimistic that we shall be able to reach political agreement over coming weeks.
I do think that there is a large degree of unanimity among Parliament, the Commission and the Member States when it comes to analysing the problem and defining our general objectives.
There is no doubt that this consensus is founded on the common denominator of the model of multifunctional and sustainable agriculture, the maintenance of which is of prime concern to all of us.
This model is our programme.
The social function of agriculture, the general economic framework, the stability of international trade relations, the maintenance of the environment, the preservation of cultural landscapes and, above all, the production of high-quality, safe food - all these things, taken together, are the challenges that we must overcome in the interests of farmers and in the interests of all Europe's other citizens.
We want to facilitate uniformly productive farming and see cultural landscapes preserved by means of agricultural activity rather than through any other kind.
We are obliged to introduce degression in order to secure finance for new reforms, and modulation can help to develop rural development policy.
There are also reasonable arguments to be adduced in favour of not granting farm income payments for certain vulnerable production sectors such as the keeping of suckler cows, sheep or goats, not least the maintenance of agricultural production in problem areas.
In the Olsson report and the Committee on Agriculture's amendments to it, I admire Members' ambitious visions of the further development of rural areas.
We have learned from the experience of recent years that, in Agenda 2000, we took too little account of market development.
Our analysis of long-term prospects gives very clear indications that, without further changes to market support, the EU's cereals producers will be unable to find adequate markets for their produce.
This state of affairs, already unsustainable, may well get even worse after enlargement in 2004.
From the point of view of economic principle, the retention of production refunds in the starch sector is no longer necessary, as market prices will correspond to those on the global market.
As regards import rules, any change to the bound customs duties on rice would have to be negotiated under Article 28 of GATT.
If, however, a permanent intervention mechanism for rice were to be retained - albeit only at the level of EUR 150 per tonne - that would prove very expensive.
I do, though, have an open mind as regards testing a standard mechanism at a price level that is compatible with the conditions expected on the markets and that prevents a renewed increase in stocks.
It is evident that the 1% increase in the milk quota in both 2007 and 2008 is another sensitive issue.
I do, however, have an open mind when it comes to the amendments on the position of those who market their goods directly and the consideration of the question of to what extent the Member States might add part of the transferred quotas to their national reserves.
It goes without saying that we have to apply funds in the most effective way, in the way most suited to the end in mind, but we also have to account to the taxpayer for this.
I will be happy to reply to your questions at the end of the debate. . (ES) Mr President, the European Parliament is debating today what should have been a simple revision of the common agricultural policy, as laid down in Agenda 2000, approved by the Fifteen in March 1999.
However, the debate has a much greater scope as a result of the aspirations of the European Commission, which has wished to impose, without taking account of the will of the Member States and the European Parliament, an in-depth reform of the common agricultural policy, perhaps the greatest in its history.
This week, Parliament, on the one hand, should show responsibility towards those Community farmers whose investments require a minimum of stability.
And on the other, it should also try to preserve its powers.
I have been draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets on this reform, which has given me the opportunity to observe certain accounting contradictions in the European Commission's proposal.
For example, the Commission proposed a modification of the common organisation of the market in the milk sector - which is no more than a reform of the reform already adopted in Agenda 2000 for this product - and the costs of which will rise to EUR 1 500 million in 2013, a figure which coincides in that year with the budgetary deficit which the Commission estimates in its financial record sheet.
Fortunately, in the debates held in Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development the majority of political groups have demonstrated that they are against this reform, the high cost of which is not justified in any way because the provisions adopted in Agenda 2000 have not yet entered into force.
Furthermore, I would like to stress that the decision we adopt today in relation to the reform of the CAP will have repercussions beyond the current financial perspectives, and it is therefore appropriate to take the necessary precautions to prevent a reduction of Parliament's budgetary powers.
Any decision which profoundly modifies the common agricultural policy halfway through Agenda 2000 should be revised within the framework of the next financial perspectives, with the aim of preventing the rash adoption of measures which commit us beyond 2006.
In my opinion, it does not make sense, for example, to establish today, definitively and with closed percentages, funds which will be transferred to category 1 B as from 2006, when we have not taken a decision on the non-obligatory expenses in the agricultural budget for the next financial programming period.
I recognise that the text has been improved in the parliamentary debate, but not sufficiently so.
The important thing is that this text does not guarantee balanced development of European agriculture and livestock breeding, and neither does it guarantee a territorial balance amongst the European rural areas.
The Commission advocates greater price competitiveness, but also respect for the demands of society, in other words, sustainability and quality.
Secondly, the European market will be strongly influenced by the main world exporters, which, in our view, will certainly not be the developing countries.
Thirdly, the only new measures that will be adopted to help farmers implement more stringent rules and safeguard quality will have to be financed by the farmers themselves through cuts in support.
The imminent WTO negotiations, the soon-to-be-accomplished enlargement of the EU, and a mandate to review Agenda 2000 - these were the constraints upon the Commission when, in January 2003 and at the Council's behest, it presented Parliament with its proposals for its consideration.
If it is the case that, in the reports now being put to the vote in this House, much has been toned down, much added, and a certain amount rejected as currently impracticable, then that has, in the final analysis, happened under pressure from those who work in agriculture, whom it is our function to represent.
The result of this vote will, however, send a signal and impose on you, the Council, who are supposed to take final decisions, the duty of finding your own compromises before this Presidency's time is up.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we have gone from an Agenda 2000 mid-term review of the CAP to a reform that will be valid until 2013, in other words for ten years.
With this in mind, Commissioner, you have proposed two major objectives, multifunctionality and competitiveness in agriculture, both in the light of the desire to increase the European Union's room for manoeuvre in WTO negotiations.
On behalf of my group, I would therefore like to support this promotion of a multifunctional agriculture to meet the expectations of our society and underline the adequacy of resources, the conditionality of aids and the strengthening of actions in the second pillar.
Turning now to the objective of competitiveness which, you say, entails reductions in prices for cereals and milk, I would like to point out that the application of multifunctionality will result in an overall increase in production costs, while at the same time direct aid to holdings will fall in the 15 Member States.
In this context, to follow your recommendations would be unwise, to say the least, especially since it seems to me that the idea of Europe as an agricultural exporter needs to be looked at again to take account of the new market of 450 million consumers that we will shortly be.
You seem, Commissioner, to see the decoupling of aid as a miracle solution, but it would be better if this were done partially and gradually, to put the Union in a better negotiating position at the WTO, but also so that we can make a first-stage appraisal before possibly going further.
My group, the PSE, is proposing an amendment to this effect to increase decoupling to 50% for arable crops and male cattle from the time it is first implemented.
Finally, as it is legitimate to make a better distribution between farmers, crops and regions of the aids intended for holdings, my group fully supports the Cunha report's Amendment No 61.
Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, I am on this occasion to express an opinion on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
The difference is, in itself, marginal.
When I listen to my fellow MEPs, I find that many of them are in actual fact behaving like the proverbial ostrich.
What is odd is that, in this Assembly, people appear to be more conservative the further to the left they are.
As those of us in the ELDR Group have said, it is important and a matter of urgency that we should in the long term deregulate agricultural policy, but now it is very important, in the near future, to guarantee aid to a form of agriculture that is multifunctional and sustainable.
Mr President, I wish of course to thank everyone for all the work that has been done.
To the President-in-Office of the Council, I wish to say that, if now we have taken a decision, I regret that we do not also have the right of co-decision.
We are dealing with a reform of the CAP which is unprecedented in its scale, which is more a radical reform involving budgetary restrictions in view of enlargement, and the fundamental proposal is to dismantle the organisation of the markets.
It coincides with a greater liberalisation of exchanges, with an increase in US competition, resulting from the increased support stemming from the Farm Bill and, in cases such as rice, from the increase in imports resulting from the application of the Everything but Arms initiative.
The Commission's proposals on the reduction of subsidies and on the reforms of the common organisations of the market will require increasing competitiveness, but this can only mean more intensive production which will increase food safety risks and environmental impact.
Through its proposal, the Commission intends to improve the European Union's negotiating position within the World Trade Organisation, by anticipating supposed demands.
The main problem with the Commission's proposal is decoupling.
Furthermore, the granting of aid based on the average aid received over the last three years would perpetuate the existing imbalances between farms, sectors and regions.
A CAP based on decoupling would be contrary to cohesion because it would restrict the granting of aid to an historical basis, it would promote inactivity in areas with natural difficulties and would promote inactivity in areas with natural difficulties and concentrate activity in areas with the most intensive agriculture.
However, it would be well received by farms whose owners are close to retirement age, who would see that it was possible to receive aid by reducing activity to a minimum.
In summary, all the negative aspects of the Commission's proposal boil down to a financial problem resulting from the intention to carry out enlargement with no additional budget.
It is very unlikely that consumer prices will be reduced, consumers will not benefit and the consequences will be absolutely negative for farmers and for the whole of society.
We cannot reduce the protection of farmers by dismantling borders, demand that they produce food of a high quality and with a high level of food safety, look after the environment and keep the rural fabric alive, without providing them with adequate compensation.
But for us, unfortunately, the Commission's proposals move in the completely opposite direction.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the mid-term review has nevertheless been quite an adventure and it is no bad thing that we, the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, have arrived at a possible compromise, which might, it seems to me, satisfy farmers.
For us Greens, the positive aspect of this compromise is that it strengthens rural development.
The thorough grooming proposed today allows European farmers to keep the positive aspects of multifunctionality by strengthening rural development, the system of modulation allowing them to pass from the first to the second pillar.
I am thinking in particular of Amendment No 44 to Article 12.
This proposed modulation uses a territorial criterion for the application of different percentage points, taking account of less-favoured areas.
Indeed, as the rapporteur says in his justification, the objective must be to consolidate the structure of producer organisations.
I am sure that will encourage States to correctly finance all the social, food quality and environmental aspects of rural development.
The territorial farming contracts model introduced by France was an excellent precursor from this point of view.
It should be noted, since it is essential for the future, that Member States may use this modulation to fund their national contribution for the so very necessary establishment of young farmers.
This strengthening of rural development is therefore a step in the right direction for two very good reasons: the first is to consolidate good farming practices, more extensive practices, protecting the health of the consumer, respecting the environment and biodiversity and producing a good social added value; the second is to protect the rural world from the vicissitudes of the aggressive commercial liberalism advocated by the WTO.
In addition, there is the difference between the degression of direct payments to fragile areas (6%) and other areas (8%).
If it is to remain meaningful, this strengthening of the second pillar must preserve the milk quotas which have proved their effectiveness in safeguarding mountain stock farming.
We must also protect and consolidate natural pasture land, but more than that we must continue to support the fodder and, more generally, the protein crops necessary for healthy, high-quality stock farming - the alfalfa mentioned by Mr Souchet - and maintain the necessary schemes.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission's legislative proposal contains elements of reform of the common agricultural policy which we feel give some cause for concern.
Total decoupling, proposed by the Commission, will lead to widespread abandonment of production, particularly in disadvantaged areas or areas classed as marginal, and cannot on its own, in any case, provide an exhaustive response to the need for substantial CAP reform.
For all these reasons, we believe that gradual, vertical decoupling of aid is possible, with a view to gradually limiting the application of the measure to a few sectors.
Then we cannot endorse the proposed differences in aid and we believe that money saved through modulation must be channelled principally into preserving rural development measures which include, not least, support for quality, with no distinction made between disadvantaged and non-disadvantaged areas.
These are the main reasons why we have tabled a number of amendments on behalf of our group, amendments which I hope will be accepted by the House.
We have also, on behalf of the UEN Group, tabled a number of amendments seeking to introduce a more balanced system of aid to the nut sector, a system which, taking into account the different production situations in the Union, establishes a fairer distribution of support between the different Member States and more aid per hectare than was originally proposed by the Commission.
We will firmly support all the genuinely important amendments which, like those tabled by our group, seek to establish a system of special benefits for young farmers with a view to facilitating access for new generations to production activities.
Lastly, as regards the dairy sector, we believe that it is desirable to move on from the quota system and that, 20 years on from the adoption of the temporary quota regime, it is now time to bring about an appropriate transition to normal market dynamics through a conclusive process with a reasonably short timeframe.
In any case, we believe that the agreement in principle achieved on the key principles of the reform could serve as a sound basis for the future Council agreement.
They do not need a social worker; they are men and women who simply want to make a decent living from their work and their production.
In reality, the rural development will not be sustainable as young people will not settle in the countryside.
However, the technical construction of your 2004 CAP is just as skilful.
The CAP is now 40 years old.
Your objective is to make it last for another 10 years, until around 2013-2014, and all the curves stop in 2013.
The CAP is only funded until 2012.
The milk quotas stop around 2013-2014.
In 2012, farmers aged 50 today will, for the most part, be retired.
That means that, by 2013, a majority will do away with direct aid, whether decoupled, partially decoupled, modulated or not modulated.
I can assure you that I have noted all your proposals with particular interest and shall take them into account in the compromise proposal which we shall submit to the Council of Ministers for Agriculture to be held in Luxembourg on 11 and 12 June.
I have noted with particular interest your accurate proposals on the repercussions of full decoupling, especially on small and medium-sized holdings, together of course with the repercussions which full decoupling may have on holdings in remote and disadvantaged areas, which is why I think that the Council will show particular interest in these proposals.
They are calling for the money paid by European taxpayers to be put to good use, as regards the development of farm holdings, the production of quality products, healthy products for European citizens and of course for our customers, and that is why we want payment procedures to be as simple as possible.
Without them, it would not have been possible, in this short time, to agree on these compromises, which have met with overwhelming approval in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
We all know what close ties bind agriculture to rural areas and to the people who live and work in them, that rural areas are a place of relaxation for our industrialised society, and that they contribute to cultural and biological diversity.
The first pillar, which governs the organisation of markets and delivers production incentives, is closely connected with the second, which contains the policies on agricultural structures and rural development.
Integrated rural development must not be restricted solely to agricultural structures, for the maintenance and the functioning of rural areas are dependent on a functioning infrastructure being in place.
Let me conclude by saying that extensive and sustainable agriculture is the guarantee that production will go on in every region.
The preamble inserted before Article 1 reflects this House's priorities: a secure income for farmers along with support for environmental protection and employment in rural areas.
It is for this reason that the Group of the Party of European Socialists has tabled amendments providing for decoupling to start, in 2005, at 50% and, following the presentation of a report from the Commission in 2007, for it to rise progressively and be extended to other sectors.
This is especially important, as, in the compromise motions, we have agreed on the partial decoupling of only two sectors.
So I hope that the Group of the Party of European Socialists' Amendments Nos 126 and 127 will be endorsed, as these amendments will enable Parliament to send the Council a more emphatic message.
Mr President, Commissioner, we have in our hands a huge programme of reform, one that right now is unavoidable.
Our committee has, in a spirit of positive cooperation, drafted a large number of amendments to the Commission proposal.
As the lower limit for modulation is being raised to EUR 7 500 and less-favoured areas are being treated with special care, agriculture in the Union will also be able to continue in the poorest regions: in the north, in the south and in mountain areas.
We should not race ahead in the matter of milk production if the market situation does not demand it.
Very high quality rye is used there in the production of functional foods.
The Commission should also take such special circumstances as these into consideration.
The analysis has been good, new perspectives have been gained, which are reflected in our preamble, but implementation has been somewhat difficult.
The issue is not, for example, support for the rye sector as a whole, but for certain specific types of crops in certain regions, and this is exactly what can happen in the second pillar.
If everyone is now saying that milk production in these deprived areas ought to be safeguarded - and has it now been? - the funds remain the same.
Mr President, Commission proposals for a mid-term reform of the common agricultural policy have led to a very difficult debate.
The tabling of 1 200 amendments represents a serious divergence of views within Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Attempts by the Commission to introduce premature - and in the case of milk - unnecessary reform, have contributed to insecurity and unease among farmers.
Our immediate objective must be to restore farmer confidence in the political process and to safeguard the integrity of the common agricultural policy, outside of which EU agriculture will not survive.
The June Movement believes that the only real way forward is to abolish discrimination by creating equal conditions through cutting back on agricultural aid with a view to phasing it out entirely.
This means that the set-aside aid and the additional measures can in this way also be done away with.
Instead of increasing aid by 100% for the new countries in 2013, the old countries should receive 25% less aid in 2013.
Your reform does not get to the heart of the CAP issue, which is the scandalous fact that the European Union is continuing and intends to continue in the future to tie up half its budget in subsidies and agricultural protection in order to protect a sector which represents 2% of the European Union's GDP.
CAP reform cannot be based on the interests of farmers; the focus must be on the interests of the European Union, on the interests of all the citizens and all the consumers who are paying 70% more for milk than they would on an open market free of subsidies; who are paying 220% more for meat while their Argentine cousins are starving to death or, if not dying, are suffering the effects of an economic recession because we are preventing them from exporting their meat to Europe; who are paying 90% more for sugar while Mozambique is unable to achieve economic recovery because of European protectionism.
We in this House - and we really should see this - consider ourselves the chosen representatives of the public and understand the individual working situation more precisely and also much more clearly than others - even including the Commission.
Nevertheless we will get a decoupling or a step-by-step partial decoupling of cereals.
With regard to the report on dried fodder, Commissioner, I find the total abolition of the dried fodder regulation incomprehensible.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too am taking as a starting point the fact that there was absolutely no guarantee that we would reach the vote in plenary.
Precisely because of this ability, which I hope will be confirmed tomorrow in the House, I am sure that the Commissioner and the Council will pay greater attention to Parliament's work.
They are very vague.
This is the question I should like to put to the Commission.
Mr President, the Commission's recent proposals on the reform of the CAP do not simply recommend a mid-term, corrective review, but give the coup de grace to small and medium-sized farming, reducing the quality and competitiveness of agricultural produce and destroying the environment.
Mr Cunha's analgesic proposals such as, for example, the partial decoupling method, in other words making decoupling gradual rather than universal, with fewer products in the first year instead of all products, revoke none of the above and, on a medium-term basis, they will have the same catastrophic results on the rural economy.
The famous multifunctionality of agriculture, with resources being reallocated to the second pillar for supposed rural development, is nothing more than a very poor pretext to conceal the pursued objective of marginalising the rural world and changing its social and environmental role.
The implementation of these proposals leaves no margin to develop the rural economy, leads to the forcible readjustment of holdings, the disappearance of small-scale cultivation, and an increase in tenant farmers both in the new Member States and in the existing Member States, increases the profits of the multinationals and reinforces and consolidates the plundering of developing countries and their peoples.
We take the farmers' side and support them in their proactive fight, which is the only way to secure their survival and protect the quality of products, the consumer and the environment.
Mr President, in this Parliament we have discussed the CAP often, and at length.
We must avoid a situation where a small number of the large Member States dictates the future shape of European agriculture at the expense of a more representative and democratic decision.
The general swing now towards partial decoupling weakens what could have been a bold move on the Commission's part.
If this means people having to leave small family farms in less productive areas to find work, it risks undermining the very foundations on which these rural communities are built.
Commissioner Fischler proposes decoupling aid and production.
He has given up the fight for the European agricultural model within the WTO before it has even started.
Complete decoupling may well serve the cause of trade liberalisation, but it does not serve the European agricultural policy.
I would, for example, mention protection at the borders against great fluctuations in the world market price and regulation of production on the internal market.
Decoupling would also have negative consequences for the regional localisation of crops and would therefore encourage relocation rather than land-use planning.
The declared aim of decoupling is to promote our negotiating position in the WTO, but it is hard to see how the announcement of a reform before the negotiations could give us any more weight.
We must therefore abandon this crazy, pointless idea of decoupling.
It would create a new cursor, that of the decoupling rate, and many hands would ensure that this moved towards total decoupling, to the detriment of our agriculture, our independence and our food security.
According to the studies carried out, in my country we could see the abandonment of one million and a half hectares of cereals, half of which are in my region, Castilla-La Mancha, one of the regions with the lowest yields in the European Union.
Furthermore, the European Commission has not yet clarified to this Parliament what the functioning of the complicated system of rights it has conceived of would be.
The excuse used is the negotiations with the WTO, but a modest partial decoupling would be sufficient to provide the room for manoeuvre in those negotiations.
We agree on the need to strengthen rural development, but European farmers will never understand any cut which does not benefit that development.
Therefore, the reduction in subsidies proposed by the Commission in order to deal with other financial needs should be eliminated.
The production in the intervention price of 50%, as proposed by the Commission, without full compensation, in addition to the repercussions of the Everything but Arms Agreement, will jeopardise Community production.
While we must support the commitments made by the European Union to those countries, it is also necessary to find a solution for many countries of Europe.
The current common organisation of the market in rice contains perverse elements, particularly the system of penalties for exceeding the maximum guaranteed areas.
In the rice sector those penalties are exponential, which could lead to penalties of up to 50%, for an excess of just 8%, in contrast to the cereals sector, in which penalties are proportional to the excess.
I believe that resolving this and establishing aid which compensates fully for the reduction in the guaranteed price are two of the things that the rice sector is demanding of this Parliament, the Commission and the Council, and they must be taken into account.
And I would also like naturally to congratulate all the rapporteurs who have been involved in this series of reports.
Mr President, for me - not a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - it is quite extraordinary that the effect of these proposals on developing country producers and markets has barely received any attention in this debate.
The debate, therefore, should and must reflect the need to assess the impact of these reforms on the EU's declared poverty eradication objectives and our sustainable development objectives for the world's poorest countries.
Farm subsidies cost those poor countries about USD 50 billion a year in lost agricultural exports.
Today we had the G8's very weak statement on trade and reform.
I would stress that, overall, we can only support the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy, given the financial constraints which we have imposed on ourselves until 2013 and considering, not least, the new challenges posed by enlargement.
We must therefore endeavour, first and foremost, to reassure our farmers.
We must therefore put all possible effort into these areas of reform, and also into quality, for in promoting quality we will be equipping our agriculture to compete on the markets.
Mr President, the Commission's proposals are not in the interests of farming and could have serious consequences for family-based farming and for small and medium-sized farmers, unless some of their basic assumptions are revised.
Instead of correcting the present imbalances in the distribution of aid amongst countries, areas of production and producers and instead of paying particular attention to the specific characteristics of countries such as Portugal, the intention is basically to ensure that the Community budget under the enlargement process is frozen and to take a step further towards liberalising the farm sector at world level, with a view to the forthcoming negotiations at the World Trade Organisation.
One of the policy's fundamental principles is to establish aid on the basis of historical reference criteria from recent years and to ensure its decoupling from production, which primarily benefits the large producers and the countries with the most advanced forms of farming and condemns the producers that lag behind, the small-scale and family farmers, to their current situation.
We cannot accept this being converted from a policy of support for production to a policy of social handouts.
Some of the amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development are to be welcomed but most of them are not.
In fact, it not only fails to put forward a genuine proposal for modulation, it also accepts decoupling aid from production for some payments for arable crops and bovines.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today, you are called upon to give your opinion on the various draft reports on the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy.
The goal of the Council presidency was to have Parliament's opinion by the end of June.
In fact, at a time when the debate on the development of the European institutions is considering precisely the competence of our House, any delay in the consultation procedure could have been interpreted as a sign that Members were incapable of dealing with an issue head-on and giving their opinion within the allotted timeframes.
As far as I am concerned, it is the result of a compromise achieved through the desire of the members of the Committee on Agriculture to preserve the key provisions on the management of agricultural markets laid down by the common agricultural policy, whilst allowing us to move towards a form of agriculture that gives greater consideration to the general interest.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you must now take the right decisions to guarantee a decent income and a future for our farming families.
In my own country, one hundred farmers - the one hundred largest - receive more than 60% of farmers in my country do.
Today we deal with the further development of the common agricultural policy post-2006, taking into consideration world trade law, with the applicant countries participating as appropriate.
They can only be properly combined if the Commission adheres strictly to the whole package of WTO negotiations and allows no watering down in this case.
The issue before us today therefore is in a sense to rework the Commission's proposals so that they are, if possible, more practical and more manageable, and at the same time to make the necessary adjustments without these adjustments asking too much of businesses or people.
It is relevant in terms of the future WTO appointments and the impending enlargement of Europe.
However, I am afraid that it may also be unfair in that it is based exclusively on the situation in mainland Europe and does not give sufficient consideration to the diversity of regional situations, particularly as regards production in the outermost regions.
These regions have not yet achieved the initial objective of the CAP, namely a degree of agricultural self-sufficiency.
Their markets are far from being saturated.
It is not a question of putting the outermost regions in a bubble; we simply need to take account of their specific situations.
The Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has shouldered its responsibilities by adopting on 21 May an amendment, which I tabled with the aim of ensuring that the outermost regions are not subjected to automatic, systematic application of the reform.
The Commission and the Council must now shoulder theirs.
Mr President, I am rather concerned that I have been looking at a slightly different document from the rest of this Parliament.
One of the problems we have always had in the common agricultural policy is that the funding has gone to multinationals such as supermarkets and not actually got down to the farmers.
They concern problems arising from the 2002 reference period in the Commission's report.
Mr President, the Commission's proposals on total decoupling and modulation are devastating for many sectors and territories.
For example, in Andalucia and other regions of Spain this total decoupling may be very harmful.
Commissioner, the CAP has been producing scandalous agricultural incomes for a few people who are sometimes not even farmers.
With regard to the least-favoured regions, Commissioner, in person you say to us, yes, yes, yes, but then your proposals say no, no, no.
With regard to modulation, I would suggest, Commissioner, that you consider what the regional competence may be in those Member States where agriculture falls within it.
With regard to the 'when', there has been a degree of hastiness and if we continue to work in such a hurry we will very soon have to carry out a reform of the reform.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a proposal for reform, however comprehensive, will never be able to satisfy the many different farming systems in Europe.
To get straight to the point which interests me, I would like to say that I come from the mountains, and in this debate I want to express the opinion of those who live and work in mountain regions.
Despite the many instances of reluctance to address mountain concerns, despite the fact that the mountains are not mentioned anywhere in this reform, we can say that there is hope on the horizon.
This also means taking the greatest possible care to ensure the quality of typical products and niche products, which have for some time been highly successful and not unprofitable on the market.
This too could help to convince a young farmer or two not to abandon the mountains.
Many other price interventions have to be readjusted as well - rye is one of them - because everything cannot be ploughed up in one go or from one day to the next.
We must however look at which countries are attempting to sell from the little that they produce because they need other vitally important goods.
Mr President, as far as we are concerned, Commissioner Fischler will go down in history as the Commissioner of decoupling.
The CDA (Christian Democrat) delegation in the European Parliament has been happy to help reach a compromise on the Cunha report which contains a number of points that were of interest to us and which we have highlighted by means of amendments.
The European Christian Democrats should protect the family concern and in our view, this ceiling should be raised to EUR 10 000 or 15 000.
I am in favour of any discussion on development cooperation, provided this is done on the basis of the agreements which Europe has reached with the 48 poorest countries and after we have considered the implications for the European farmers and farmers in developing countries.
If we fail to do this, the European farmers will be sitting targets in the whole discussion on development cooperation.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like also to be able to say Minister, President-in-Office of the Council, but, unfortunately, he is absent.
I would not want to be in his shoes, but I congratulate him on what he has managed to produce.
We consider that the EUR 5 000 limit is very low.
I also wish to express the conviction that disadvantaged island areas, which in my country especially are particularly exposed, and mountain areas throughout the European Union should receive special treatment.
However, I want to see how farmers are to become businessmen.
Finally, we obviously all welcome the enlargement of the European Union with the 10 new Member States, but what I should like is for not only the farmers of the European Union to be called upon to pay the bill for enlargement.
However, I am not convinced on the second point, despite the Commissioner's protestations on many occasions that we have played our WTO cards wisely.
Look at what happened in the last GATT round: the EU traded in a principled way our agricultural rights for other non-agricultural areas.
The jury is out and we are gambling in advance of Cancun with the critical part of Europe's economic policy, the CAP.
In my opinion, the overall situation over recent years has been much more favourable for consumers than for farmers.
I would like farmers in the European Union to continue to perform the dual task of producing high quality products and caring for and maintaining the cultural landscape.
Finally, I would therefore like to encourage you to follow our suggestions.
I cannot imagine what interest you could have in initiating something unsuitable. (Applause) Mr President, I congratulate the Commission on its radical proposals for decoupling.
If we are going to do it partially, then let us at least do it sector by sector, not by horizontal decoupling across all sectors.
Mr Cunha, you know I believe that part of the proposal is mad.
We need a decision from the Council of Ministers so that farmers can plan for the future.
It will also help us face up to enlargement.
We also have to be sure that when Europe goes to the WTO round we can fight our corner and face up not only to the United States, but Third World countries.
Anyone who is involved in European politics knows that compromises are necessary in the interest of a common cause and in the interest of reaching a joint decision.
On many topics however, there has for some time been discussion on the adaptation of Commission proposals.
These include, for example, the concentration of the cross-compliance requirements on the most important provisions with the aim of improving administrative manageability, a moderate increase in the portion of cross-compliance moneys remaining in the Member States, a longer preparation time for the installation of the management advisory system with initial voluntary participation which shall only later be made obligatory, greater flexibility for the Member States with regard to the payment of advances relating to direct payments, flexible treatment of cases of hardship and problems in calculating and allocating the uniform management premium as well as the option for the Member States to exclude certain types of fruit from the areas subject to premiums, the retention of the rotating set-aside land with the possibility of secondary growth of commodities in these areas, delaying the decoupling of milk premiums in the interest of simplifying administration or a more flexible cofinancing rate for agricultural environmental measures and an occasional increase in the promotion sums in areas with specific environmental restrictions.
The important topics still requiring an open discussion include the treatment of the outermost marginal areas or overseas areas.
These mixtures of a partial decoupling mean in the end that the disadvantages of the existing system are linked to withholding the advantages of the new system.
Not taking steps however, would again result in a market imbalance and that means none other than downward pressure on price.
Thank you very much, Mr Fischler.
The vote will take place on Thursday.
The next item is Question Time (B5-0097/2003).
The following questions are addressed to the Commission.
This has provided a very effective basis for the rapid exchange of information within the EU and for a coordinated response in which EFTA and candidate countries have fully participated in collaboration with the WHO.
Although the application of health protection measures falls to the authorities of the Member States, the orientation for immediate and future actions will focus on the following issues: rapid detection of all suspect cases of SARS through good surveillance; protection of those at risk of infection through effective isolation of SARS patients in hospitals, including measures to protect carers; particular attention to be paid to air travel, which has been an important factor in the spread of SARS, notably to standardised screening of passengers leaving affected areas; on-board advice to passengers and effective information at ports of entry from affected areas; raising awareness among professionals and the public and the timely and accurate reporting and sharing of information with other countries, in particular EEA and EFTA countries, acceding and candidate countries, and with the WHO.
The Council also took note of the Commission's intention to submit a proposal to create a European centre for disease prevention and control.
The recent large-scale arrest of dissidents, the unfair trials and the arbitrary and excessive sentences imposed on them, as well as the execution of three Cuban citizens convicted of highjacking a Cuban ferry, have had a prompt, firm and sustained reaction from the European Union.
The Commission has fully and actively supported the actions that have been taken in this context.
The Commission, together with the Member States, has strongly condemned such arrests in a declaration published on 26 March 2003, which was followed up by an EU démarche in Havana to urge the Cuban authorities to allow the prisoners' immediate release.
A second EU démarche in Havana took place on 18 April, following the Foreign Ministers' statement issued on 14 April.
The Commission decided on 30 April to defer the examination of the Cuban application for accession to the Cotonou Agreement, signalling that these recent developments are not conducive to cooperation between the European Union and Cuba.
The Cuban authorities decided on 16 May to withdraw their application.
Mr President, I wish to thank Commissioner Byrne for his answer.
Approximately 60 of the 75 people sentenced and imprisoned in Cuba following summary trials have received prison sentences of more than 20 years.
Commissioner, the people whom the European Union calls human rights activists are nothing more than agents of the United States of America, as proven in the Cuban courts.
In all events, I should like your comments, Commissioner, on the action by Mr Cason in Cuba and by his office.
These include the executions of the three individuals in question following very short trials in circumstances which are generally regarded by the international community, and the Commission in particular, as being highly unsatisfactory.
As the author is not present, Question No 24 lapses.
The question is interesting in any case because the barriers to parallel trade in pharmaceutical products have for some time been a source of concern to the Commission, which has already prepared many cases for trial in this field in the past and continues do so now.
As you are aware, the Commission has two legal instruments under which it can take action: Articles 81 and 82.
With regard to Article 81, just a few days ago, Mr Tizzano, the Advocate General of the Court of Justice, presented his conclusions on the Bayer case, relating to parallel trade in one of the company's products.
The Court's judgment will be issued in a few month's time but will not, in any case, compromise the Commission's other decisions on issues different from the matters addressed in the Bayer case, such as, for instance, the decision adopted by the Commission on 8 May 2001 on the dual pricing system employed by the company, Glaxo.
Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his extensive response to what is indeed a very topical problem, which, as the Commissioner was right to emphasise, causes great concern.
In my view, Article 82 is indeed the only legal basis on which we can carry on, and I hope that more light will be shed on the situation within the foreseeable future, because major mergers within the medicines sector almost always lead to huge cuts in employment.
As I said, our priority for the moment is to finalise our contribution to the Court of Justice in the Greek preliminary ruling request - this should be done by mid-June - concerning the treatment of approximately 30 cases pending before the Commission.
The assessment under Article 82 is ongoing.
It is a positive challenge for the authorities to take on, given the benefits that consumers can draw from the increasing use of the Internet, and also given the continuing need to ensure that whatever the technology adopted for the conduct of transactions, the key principles that support the Community's legal order should not be circumvented.
This definition therefore encompasses many languages that are minority languages in one country but majority languages in another.
Meetings are held on this issue, such as the Bolzano Conference of 26 and 27 May on the topic 'Best practice in promoting linguistic diversity in an enlarged Europe'.
It must be said that the future members already have the same opportunities as the Fifteen as regards minority and regional languages, namely the funding of initiatives through the existing programmes.
Finally, the Euromosaic study on the production and reproduction of the minority language groups in the European Union will be extended to the new Member States.
The new Member States have also been invited to participate in public consultations that have been launched by the Commission as part of the preparations for an action plan for language diversity and learning, which will be presented to the Council and Parliament in July, in the context of the analysis of the new generation of Leonardo, Socrates and Youth programmes.
Member States are supporting minorities in the accession countries.
There is now a rumour in these countries that at least part of this support by another Member State would be unlawful after accession to the European Union.
I am therefore at a complete loss to explain the origin of this discussion because if a Member State wants to help out another Member State or a third country in some way and wants to carry out cultural projects in this Member State, then this is a matter for the Member State and the Union should not interfere.
On the contrary, I am happy for Member States to organise numerous cultural projects in their neighbouring countries.
We must be vigilant in monitoring what is happening through our schools and in society in general.
As you know, the Union is made up of nation states but also of multinational states.
In some of the latter, certain nations may have national teams, as is the case with Scotland and Wales.
My own country, England, will shortly be playing a football match against a candidate country and risks being thrown out of the competition in question as a result of racism from its fans.
It is for this reason that, with the help of the European Parliament, the Commission has decided to make 2004 the European Year of Education through Sport.
I would like all Europeans - including Members of the European Parliament - to commit themselves during that year to getting that message across to young people in our Member States and in the enlarged Europe.
Therefore, at the very moment when the Spanish authorities have shut down the only Basque newspaper, Egunkaria, I would like to ask you the reason for this difference in the status of Basque and Catalan.
Question No 28 by Theresa Zabell (H-0328/03): Subject: Article on sport in the future Treaty Can the Commission say what steps it has taken to ensure the inclusion of an article on sport in the future EU Treaty?
The draft constitutional Treaty, as it currently stands, incorporates the principles of the Commission's draft and includes competence for sport in Part III, Chapter V of the Treaty, areas where the Union may take coordinating, supplementary or supporting action: education, vocational training, youth and sport.
In this article, paragraphs 1 and 2 are specifically dedicated to sport, and I am very happy with this proposal, as with this article, the Union encourages the educational and social functions of sport without harmonising the laws and regulations of the Member States.
The second part of the question relates to the new World Anti-Doping Code.
However, there is no unique or miraculous solution that would enable us to resolve this problem.
The World Anti-Doping Code will help to combat this scourge, but other measures are needed too.
We have therefore established a form of complementarity: we help the Member States to reach agreement.
Moreover - before the major meeting in Copenhagen on doping - a meeting of Sports Ministers was organised by the Commission in Brussels with a view to enabling Europe to speak with one voice.
I would like to congratulate you on the good work you have done, because I believe that introducing sport into the future European Union Treaty is very important.
I would like to hear the Commissioner's opinion on this and on whether she believes it is necessary to rather reinvigorate the fight against doping at European level and, if possible, at world level.
The honourable Member welcomes, as I do, the wisdom of the Convention members, who have actually included sport in the draft treaty, taking into consideration what the Union and Parliament have been saying on this subject for years.
It is these dimensions which have been included in the draft treaty, not, I am glad to say, the excessive demands of certain sporting bodies.
At this point I should like to thank all the sportsmen and sportswomen and all the sporting organisations, including the President of the International Olympic Committee, who have been helping us for years in our aim of getting this article included in the treaty.
I should also like to thank the Convention members, the Members of the European Parliament and all the national politicians who have contributed to this effort.
A World Anti-Doping Agency code is not enough.
We need a change in, or an adaptation of, Member States' laws.
For example, we carried out a study on fitness centres which revealed that even teenagers - primarily young men between 15 and 17 years of age - are taking banned substances because they have seen the older ones doing so and because these substances are freely available in some of these fitness centres.
As far as the rest is concerned - and this is the message to be sent out during the European Year of Education through Sport - I believe that sport is enjoyable; it brings people together, both as individuals and as nations, and it must seek solutions to social problems.
The Commission is currently in the process of evaluating the transposition and will take a decision following a careful examination of the dossier.
However, it is perfectly clear that, under clause 5 of the directive, the Member States must establish a framework to prevent abuse arising from the use of successive fixed-term contracts.
The directive gives the Member States a number of options as regards the application of this clause.
A first reading of the presidential decree shows that article 5 makes provision for the above and that it expressly stipulates that the renewal of fixed-term contracts of employment is allowed if justified by an objective reason and examples of objective reasons are given.
However, the measures introduced must be adequate measures to prevent abuse.
We already have judgments from the courts of first instance in Patras and Larissa and from the court of appeal in Crete, which apply the directive and do not apply the presidential decree.
Mr President, several years ago, in 1989, the Commission issued a recommendation which it addressed to the Member States concerning the introduction of the European over-60s senior citizens' card.
The Commission's recommendation at the time concerned the possibility of access for senior citizens to all resources provided by decision of the Member States to their own senior citizens, from museums and cultural activities to free subsidised transport.
The final report from the last study was submitted to a contact group of representatives from the Member States for policies for senior citizens and to the association group of senior citizens' organisations.
I would therefore like to ask you this: does the Commission have any thoughts on how to promote pensioners' power as consumers in future through best practice and benchmarks?
I am also very proud that the European Union, in Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, has the only constitution in the world to include a ban on discrimination on grounds of age.
It is precisely the same wording which we had in article 13.
Naturally the European Commission has analysed the prospects and specific problems concerning youth unemployment in enlarged Europe.
Studies which we have carried out show that mobility from the 10 future Member States to the present European Union of the 15 will be relatively limited.
Of course, these studies always have a significant number of forecasts.
However, they are fairly convincing if you think that they have taken account of all the prevailing conditions in each of the Member States.
Similarly, previous experience of enlargement in Europe and studies into the phenomenon of immigration suggest that young migrant workers from the new Member States will tend to migrate towards the wealthier areas of their own countries, to large towns where unemployment rates are relatively lower and there are relatively good prospects of finding work.
Young people in these countries tend to opt first for their own towns and their own areas which are better developed, rather than choosing to go to another country.
Following accession, each Member State can decide on free movement, but it can also postpone it for five years.
The third point concerns the strategy on employment, the application of policies in which the European Union has an added value.
Here we must say that there has been cooperation here for three years between the European Commission and each of the candidate Member States, where essentially we are trying to support the creation of individualised action plans to combat unemployment.
Considerable efforts are being made to include reducing the drop-out rate from school, which is a serious problem in many of these countries, and to prepare them so that, with the new generation of Structural Funds, there will be optimum investment in human resources.
I think it would be very important for the European Union to focus especially on education and training, so that young people in the accession countries have a chance to benefit from suitable job opportunities in their own countries.
Mr Ebner, at this stage, a first round of discussions is being held for the next generation of the Structural Funds.
Thus, the discussion is being directed to a large extent towards the fact that the candidate countries, as they are already doing, will have to prepare those structures with which they will be able to fund the employment strategy, to fund the infrastructures of their education systems and the reforms needed, all of which are very important to their development.
Many young people and young students rely upon temporary work for employment in between term times and they will therefore be as happy as I am at the lack of progress today.
However, as you know, the directive for temporary agency workers is a very difficult and complicated one.
The central concept of this directive is to strike a balance between flexibility and security.
Therefore you can expect a new phase with negotiations on this directive.
To put it briefly: economic growth plays a crucial role in a country's capacity to absorb young people and this growth and economic development must be of concern to everyone.
Young immigrants are always an asset.
In order to achieve the objective of full employment in 2010, we need to create 22 million jobs for the 25 new countries, so that we arrive at unemployment throughout Europe in the order of 3.5% - 4%.
According to our information, the United Kingdom has now correctly transposed Directive 77/187/EEC into national legislation.
As far as the legally binding nature of collective agreements in the United Kingdom is concerned, I would like to point out that this is also a matter of interpretation of English law, often requiring a factual appreciation.
The directive and, in particular Article 3(2), does not oblige a Member State to change the legal nature of collective agreements.
Whether or not this is the case is often a complex issue requiring a factual appreciation.
The result has been that those who chose to use those rights have seen ten years of pay freeze, ten years of a freeze on any chance of career promotion, and removal of pension rights.
As far as the transposition is concerned, there is now a legal decision according to which this transposition is acceptable, and there is no problem with the government of the United Kingdom.
Thank you very much, Mrs Diamantopoulou.
As the time allotted to questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 33 to 55 will be replied to in writing.
Mr President, on 22 April 2002 at Valencia, in Spain, Algeria and the European Union, by solemnly signing their Association Agreement, set the seal on a new and sustainable relationship for a future of solidarity and cooperation.
This agreement represents a genuine economic anchor binding Algeria to the European Community, and it is an illustration of our consistent desire - a desire which is shared by our European partners - to base our relationship on the essential values of mutual respect, shared prosperity and friendship.
Algeria committed itself very early on in that respect, via the construction of gas pipelines through Italy and Spain, to the path of long-term cooperation with Europe, thereby giving an expression to a fundamental act of faith in European integration and in future prospects for cooperation with the European continent.
Traditionally, we have held regular political consultations with the European Union, a lively and constructive dialogue involving the exchange of many delegations of political parties and members of parliament, who have helped to introduce a climate of understanding into our relationship as a result of a mutual desire to know one another better in order to be better able to cooperate.
It was precisely in order to address this situation and to arm ourselves in advance against these dangers that, together, seven years ago now, we launched the pioneering Barcelona process, with which all the countries surrounding the Mediterranean were to associate themselves.
The Euro-Mediterranean project into which we have launched ourselves without hesitation implies, on the part of everyone, a total commitment to the implementation of the objectives set out in the Barcelona Declaration.
In this context, our action must take into account the interests of all the partners involved, and must respond to our many and varied concerns.
Mr President, the emergence of the new context of globalisation had allowed us to hope that growth and development would occur at the same rate.
The countries of the South agreed to many sacrifices, often under duress, in order to be a part of this development of the world economy, and adapting to this new situation has often involved painful adjustments and given rise to burdensome social repercussions.
It has to be admitted now that the promised prospects have, so far, become a reality only in the wealthy countries.
The split between rich and poor countries is becoming increasingly wide.
That represents an enormous challenge and involves huge upheavals in our social and economic structures.
Despite the difficulties which I have just mentioned, Algeria has launched a huge programme to boost the economy, and has provided funding in the form of USD 7 billion over a period of four years.
An example is the budgetary appropriations allocated to Algeria for the first and, in particular, the second tranches of the MEDA bilateral programme.
Mr President, the last 12 years have been an appalling nightmare for the Algerian people, who, while suffering the violence of a particularly cruel form of terrorism, have also had to cope with natural disasters, with droughts lasting several years, with floods, and with several earthquakes, the latest of which has just devastated the area around Algiers.
These terrorist organisations have even found asylum and freedom to act in certain capital cities of Europe, where the massacres in Algeria were still giving rise to questions and doubts which showed a total ignorance of the internal situation of the country and of the threat that it represented to the rest of the world.
It was only after the events of 11 September 2001 in the United States that the world's perception changed and it became possible to envisage terrorism as an international scourge against which it would be necessary to engage in a merciless battle on a worldwide scale.
I think I can say that, at that moment, the situation in Algeria became better understood and the sacrifices borne by the Algerian people were at last fully appreciated.
However, it is even more important to mount a thorough campaign not only against the manifestations of terrorism, but above all against its causes, its roots, and everything that gives it sustenance.
This world will never build anything solid or lasting unless it bears this objective firmly in mind as a major priority.
After 12 years of struggle, the security situation in our country has improved considerably, but it still requires the measures of vigilance and protection made necessary by the isolated acts of violence which occur from time to time.
The Algerian Government remains convinced that the deepening of the democratic process and the acceleration of economic and social reforms will allow the emergence and the strengthening of a civil society which is capable of making its contribution to the progress of Algerian society, while respecting the rights and the duties of each individual.
In this context, the overall approach of the Government tends to give automatic preference to dialogue and consultation and to make them not only the instrument of political and social regulation but also a powerful factor in promoting vital political and social consensus.
In this dialogue-centred approach, economic and social problems, and the numerous social claims which form the corollary to those problems, assume a special place because of the enormous constraints burdening a national economy which finds itself in the process of changing and of opening up to the demands of the market economy.
We are aware of our imperfections in this area, but we all know that in any society respect for human rights requires a long apprenticeship which leads to a true human-rights culture.
The creation of the National Consultative Committee for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights is a response to this major concern, and demonstrates our willingness to move forward in this area.
The Association Agreement which now links us to the European Community will enable us to multiply our contacts and exchanges with European countries, and I am convinced that this will lead us towards a strengthening of the democratic tendencies in our own country, and towards a greater openness towards the human-rights culture.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is this the place, is this the time?
As I speak to you here today I should like to express my gratitude, in particular, for the tremendous upsurge of national solidarity which emerged spontaneously throughout the country on the part of all our citizens, and in particular our young people, who were so keen to bring to their brothers in distress the support of the whole nation.
In this respect I should like to pay particular homage to all those specialist rescue teams, from countries which are our brothers and our friends, who, alongside the People's National Army, the civil defence authorities and the Algerian medical teams, have done a splendid and remarkable job of work and have provided us with assistance which is greatly appreciated in these difficult times.
I have personally been at pains to supervise personally the smooth running of operations to assist the victims and the implementation of measures of all kinds adopted in this field, and to verify that all the institutions in the country are remaining mobilised for this purpose.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, facing Europe, the African continent is seeking a way of escaping from its under-developed position and, like the European continent, it is trying to achieve unity through better coordination of its efforts and better use of its resources.
This ambitious undertaking is intended to be based on a vast economic programme which is currently known by the name of NEPAD, and which the leaders of Africa have once again presented to the Heads of State of the G8 countries at their meeting in Évian.
I raise this question because I know the interest that Europeans show in everything that relates to Africa and the sympathy that they have always shown towards the efforts of Africans to participate in world development.
The countries of Africa have learned much from their failures and their mistakes, in their economic and social choices and in the implementation of particularly restrictive structural adaptation programmes.
It is a possibility because Africa has courageously brought about a revolution in attitudes in order to ensure a future of democracy, peace and prosperity.
The tragic events of 11 September 2001, which brought the horror to its climax, demonstrate the truth that, in the world of today and tomorrow, there can be no sanctuary of security and prosperity in an environment of vulnerability, disorder and destitution.
We should like to believe that the meeting in Évian has amplified this message and that the G8 countries have confirmed their faith in the recovery of Africa and renewed their determination to give it all their support in the best-understood interests of everyone.
Algeria is one of the African countries which founded NEPAD, and its activities on the African political scene reflect the major role that it plays in accepting responsibility for and solving the problems which arise in our continent.
I personally have faith in the future of the AMU.
Recent developments in the Middle East, a region which is so sensitive and which has suffered so much, constitute a forceful challenge to all of us, because of the serious threat that they represent to stability and security in the region and to peace in the world.
in the context of respect for the rights of all the peoples of the region to live in peace and security.
The situation in Iraq is also a source of great concern in the Arab world.
On this issue, Algeria remains in favour of the strict observance of law and of international legality.
and that the international community, represented by the United Nations, must be effectively involved in any process of political rehabilitation and reconstruction in Iraq. (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to paint you a picture of the situation in Algeria and of certain other issues, both internal and international, which are a source of concern to us.
I have tried to promote a better understanding of the situation in Algeria, a situation which Members of the European Parliament can always appreciate for themselves by coming to visit our country, where they are always welcome and where we shall be happy to receive them and very happy to listen to their comments and above all to their advice.
These exchanges, which are based on mutual confidence as well as an already established friendship, are more essential than ever now that we are linked by an Association Agreement which strengthens our solidarity.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me once again to thank you for the welcome that you have given to my delegation and to me, and for having been willing to give your attention to what I have to say.
When the Cartagena Protocol was successfully negotiated in 2000, this was a significant success for the European Union.
It was also a success for all those of us who want free trade to be conducted in the context of environmental concern and respect for consumers.
The protocol clarifies the conditions for global trade involving genetically-modified products.
To date, 49 countries have ratified the protocol.
The draft law we are now to debate lays down EU rules for the export of genetically-modified organisms.
In adopting these rules, the European Union fulfils the requirements laid down in the Cartagena Protocol.
These new rules are coming at precisely the right time, and they may perhaps also serve as a model and inspiration for states that are working on their regulations right now.
Compared with the proposal tabled by the Commission, the rules we are to adopt tomorrow are a little stricter and clearer.
They are more in line with what is laid down in the protocol and, in certain areas, go still further.
We have made sure that rules and definitions shall not be looser than what is laid down by the protocol and that express approval by the country of import shall always be required before the export takes place.
The legislation of the country of import must always be respected.
The proposal makes it clear that we must not export anything from the EU that is not permitted within the EU and that there must be considerable transparency, with the public being given information about the export taking place.
Overall, the text we are now to adopt means that the European Parliament has obtained a hearing for approximately 80% of what we wanted to get through at first reading.
That has been possible thanks to a significant consensus between the Council of Ministers and Parliament.
By adopting these rules, we show that environmental considerations and respect for developing countries' legislation are key concepts for the EU's view of the global trade in genetically-modified products.
There is a need to do this at the very time when the United States is pushing for issues of this kind to be resolved within the World Trade Organisation.
We have recently seen examples of how this country has dumped genetically-modified food in countries that do not permit such food in their own national legislation.
The overall purpose, as we have heard already, of this United Nations agreement is to establish common rules to be followed in transboundary movements of GMOs in order to protect biodiversity and human health at world level.
The European Union has to fulfil its international obligations, which means transposing into our own legislation the provisions of the Biosafety Protocol.
The Commission has already expressed its reservations on some political points of this procedure, particularly since the common position agreed in the first reading goes well beyond the provisions of the Biosafety Protocol on a substantial number of issues.
Despite its reservations, the Commission is willing to cooperate on the basis of the package of compromise amendments we have on the table today, in order to increase the chances of reaching agreement at the second reading.
We need to send a clear signal that we intend to honour our commitments and be in a position to fully implement the protocol as soon as it enters into force, which should now be a matter of months.
The Commission is in a position to support the package of amendments submitted for the approval of the Parliament as part of a compromise.
Let me just comment briefly on some of the amendments from the package to illustrate the Commission's position.
Amendment No 19 does recognise the need to respect the party or non-party of imports that can be regulated by your safety framework, consistent with the protocol.
This is in line with the position taken on numerous occasions by the Commission in international forums, which is to respect the right of countries to a free informed choice with regard to GMOs.
So the Commission can accept Amendment No 19.
It can accept Amendments Nos 24-26 on improved public access to information regarding transboundary movements of GMOs, which is in line with the general framework of public access to environmental information and with Directive 2001/18/EC on the deliberate release of GMOs into the environment.
Amendments Nos 21 and 22 impose an obligation to wait for prior written consent before proceeding with the export of GMOs.
By way of conclusion, I would like to say that Parliament has worked in a swift and transparent manner in close cooperation with the Commission and the Council.
We are all keen to avoid a conciliation procedure for this report, for it deals, after all, with the transposition of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety and the protection of biological diversity, which is a subject close to everyone's heart.
The European Union was indeed a key player in the negotiations on the Cartagena Protocol.
These amendments aimed to intervene in pending legislative processes through this report on the transposition of the Cartagena Protocol.
We debated and voted on this matter at second reading in committee just two weeks ago.
A final decision on this issue is certainly not yet in sight.
For this reason, any statement on the liability issue in connection with traceability of GMOs and aids in the current report on transboundary movement had to be emphatically rejected.
These issues have nothing to do with the transposition of the Cartagena Protocol into Community law.
However, relevant amendments from the first reading did not make it to this second reading either.
I am pleased that the Council has decided in principle to adopt my amendments on exemptions to the system of notification and information for GMOs in transit and in closed systems.
By far the majority of Parliament's amendments have been accepted, and this means we can have the Catagena Protocol put into effect without its wording being weakened for political reasons - on the contrary, with the wording of the protocol being tightened up in certain respects.
In my opinion, the result makes an important contribution to the overall complex of laws that we shall now soon have on the subject of GMOs and that are designed to protect our health but, above all, to protect biodiversity, even though the ability genetically to manipulate the products of nature has opened the way for doing so.
Amongst the most important points in this report are the requirement for prior written express consent of the importing country before any movement of GMOs can take place, an obligation on the Commission to make export notifications available to the public and the requirement on Member States to prevent accidental cross-boundary movement of GMOs - the latter addressing the major debate of the moment, coexistence.
Here we are talking about implementing the Cartegena Protocol, which covers the export of GMOs to countries outside the EU.
The protocol, as others have said, will enter into force when ratified by 50 countries.
As eight Member States have been awaiting adoption of this regulation, a positive vote tomorrow will lead almost directly to the Cartegena Protocol coming into force.
However, in order to meet the Commission halfway, the Council and the Parliament then voted in favour of the requirement for this approval to be provided in writing prior to the first transboundary export of a GMO.
The exporter is required, for a period of a minimum of five years, to keep a record of the notification and the acknowledgement of receipt from the competent authority of the importing country.
I am certainly convinced that these provisions will be effective.
It will bring all the EU countries into compliance with the Cartegena Protocol and enable them to go forward and ratify it.
On many key points, the regulation goes far beyond what is required by the Biosafety Protocol itself.
Everything has already been said, but not yet by everyone.
We face a major political challenge, that of convincing our counterparts in the United States of the need for such regulation.
In substantive terms, the Council endorsed almost 70 per cent of the position adopted by Parliament at first reading.
I note with satisfaction, especially as rapporteur for genetically-modified food and feed, that there is clearly something of a tradition here, with the Council generally following Parliament's position.
I hope that the vote tomorrow will be a major step towards the ratification of the Cartagena Protocol.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12 noon.
First, I should like to than the rapporteur, Mr de Roo, for his report on the Commission's marine fuels sulphur proposal.
The aim of the Commission's proposal is to reduce ship emissions of sulphur dioxide and particulate matter.
These are directly related to the sulphur content of marine fuels, which is currently 2.7% on average, or 27 000 parts per million (ppm) compared with road fuel, which has a new sulphur limit of 10 ppm.
We therefore propose two new marine fuels sulphur limits: a 1.5% limit for all ships in the Baltic Sea, North Sea and English Channel, which is the internationally agreed sulphur emission control area; the same 1.5% limit for passenger vessels going to or from ports anywhere in the European Union; and a 0.2% limit for ships at berth in EU ports.
These limits will achieve significant emissions reductions, which are targeted at reducing acidification in northern Europe and improving local air quality in ports and coastal areas.
Importantly, given that shipping is a global industry, the main element of the proposal is aligned with internationally-agreed rules set out in the International Maritime Organisation's Air Pollution Convention, that is, MARPOL, Annex VI.
We will consider Parliament's amendments with the same objective in mind.
This is why I am extremely pleased to have struck a compromise with all the political groups, which goes much further than what the European Commission proposes.
Indeed, we suggest introducing a 0.5% limit in two steps.
The other reason why we want to go so far is public health.
I should urge Commissioner Wallström to immerse herself in this issue and to adopt the European Parliament's proposal.
In my view, this scrubbing technique works very well.
The aim is to introduce a 0.5% sulphur limit on marine fuels in order to attain a real reduction in sulphur dioxide and particulate emissions.
Of course it would be better if we could proceed on the basis of an international consensus here, because naturally, the ships are not only refuelled in the European Union.
If it is possible to reduce sulphur dioxide and particulate emissions in another way than by reducing the sulphur content, that is naturally to be welcomed.
To that extent, I am also in favour of examining alternative technologies and, if this review produces the right outcomes, to implement them as well.
We have therefore opened the way for alternative technologies here as well.
At the same time we have the problem of what to do with the residue from the oil refineries, because we are taking the sulphur out of the fuel used in road vehicles, fuel which is 26 000 parts per million sulphur.
We have an international agreement under MARPOL Annex VI to reduce the sulphur content in sensitive sea areas to 1.5% in the Channel, the North Sea and the Baltic.
There is of course another approach, and that is not to just look at the fuel, as in cars, but to use abatement technology, so called 'sea-water scrubbers', and I am pleased that the compromise includes provision for trials of this new technology.
I am confident these trials will show that the benefits of using this technology go over and above the directive in terms of delivering a 95% reduction in sulphur dioxide emissions, as against a 40% reduction which we can achieve through using the fuel.
It is a big improvement over MARPOL Annex VI, with the additional benefit of reducing particulates by 80% and a substantial reduction in nitrogen oxide pollution.
Together, the EU countries and the candidate countries have such a large fleet that we often have our rules put into effect in the IMO.
We need broadly based follow-up systems in different eco-systems in different types of water.
Finally, I want to say that our group will request a separate vote on Amendments Nos 20 and 21 in order to clarify anything that may be obscure.
I therefore consider it unacceptable that the efforts made on land to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions have not been matched at sea and I consequently welcome the Commission's excellent initiative, although I feel it should be more ambitious.
We are able to accept three-quarters of them fully, in part, or in principle.
Those amendments that we cannot accept or accept only in part relate to three main issues.
The first and biggest issue is the proposal for tighter marine fuel sulphur limits extended to a wider sea area.
The report proposes a phased approach, starting with the 1.5% set out in the Commission proposal, with a tighter 0.5% limit in a second phase.
Later phases also extend the area where ships have to comply with these limits in all exclusive economic zones and territorial seas throughout the European Union.
The proposed new phases also go beyond the internationally agreed 1.5% sulphur emission control area in the Baltic Sea, the North Sea and the English Channel, but it is open to Member States to propose the designation of new sulphur emission control areas at the International Maritime Organisation and to negotiate tighter fuel limits for these areas.
However, if tighter limits prove necessary and an international solution cannot be reached, the review clause in the proposal gives the Commission the right to take action at EU level at a later date.
The second issue concerns emissions offsetting, or trading.
For this reason we can accept Amendment No 44 in principle, which requires the Commission to consider a range of economic instruments and report back to Parliament and the Council.
The last issue relates to requirements on the Commission.
Amendment Nos 32 and 44 propose to bring forward the date of the Commission's 2010 report on the implementation of the directive.
The Commission believes that it would be too early to report on the implementation of the directive in 2007 or 2008, given that some of the proposed fuel sulphur limits would not enter into force until 2008.
The tighter fuel sulphur limits proposed in today's report are linked to the possible use of exhaust-gas cleaning technology or scrubbing, as an alternative means of compliance.
This is allowed under MARPOL and, provided it does not emit harmful effluent into enclosed waters, the Commission proposal already includes a review clause to allow scrubbing in future.
So, we welcome Parliament's proposals for a new text on scrubbing.
I would like to hand in a list in writing summarising the Commission's position on all the amendments tabled Thank you Mrs Wallström.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12 noon.
When the representative of the Commission first presented this report to the Committee on Fisheries, he stated that the subject was so technical (and even routine) that we may even find it boring.
The timing of this particular proposal, on the heels of the December Fisheries Council and its decisions on CFP reform and interim cod recovery measures, provides an opportunity for the Commission and the Council to regain some of the credibility which currently is severely lacking - certainly around northern fishing nations such as Scotland and Ireland.
The amendments which were approved by the committee - and which I hope will be endorsed by the whole House tomorrow - include two, which simply correct inaccurate references in the Commission's text.
Amendment No 4 addresses another - in my view - unacceptable anomaly, namely the provision which would allow those fishermen using the very smallest of mesh sizes in industrial fisheries for sandeel, for example, to retain undersized fish.
I seek full support for their inclusion tomorrow.
Equally, if technical measures are to be supported and implemented by fishermen, it is essential that they accept that particular measures are appropriate to the task.
It seems to me that this proposal provides the ideal opportunity to achieve these two worthwhile ends - the meaningful involvement of experts through RACs, and therefore a greater likelihood that technical measures will be effective and appropriate to a particular fishing zone.
Further amendments address the question of Member States' ability to take action, in relation to their own fleets, which exceeds the minimum required under EU regulation.
The current version of the technical measures allows for this provision.
Certainly in Scotland there is such a crisis, which has led my own political party, the SNP - a pro-European party - to commit itself to campaign for the scrapping of the CFP as currently formulated.
These interim measures have been in place since 1 February this year and yet not a single penny in compensation has been paid to any of those affected by the cuts.
He said that of the EUR 3.7 billion in the budget to 2006, only 3% had been earmarked for socio-economic aid, despite the obvious hardship suffered by many fishermen.
Its failure to apply for this aid or indeed, to submit proposals for emergency aid from the EUR 150 million voted by a huge majority in this House in March, amounts to a naked betrayal of our fishing sector in their time of need.
No wonder more than 230 UK fishermen have applied to scrap their vessels.
And it is against this background that I must express my surprise at the Commission's position on the Irish Box.
But the Irish, British, French and Spanish fleets have been fishing in the Irish Box for years.
Now I am well aware that our Spanish friends are dissatisfied with the current arrangements which restrict access to only 40 of their trawlers.
However, it is worth noting that the 40 Spanish trawlers fishing in this zone at any given time are all massive 25-metre plus vessels, often twice the size of local Irish boats.
The problem is, there are a further 120 massive Spanish trawlers waiting just south of the Irish Box, keen to gain access, but I do not see hundreds of Greek or Italian trawlers demanding access to the Irish Box!
It is also worth noting that the same proposal for a Council regulation in Western Waters would burst open the 200 mile economic exclusion zone around the Azores.
I have worked hard to find compensation for the damage caused by the oil tanker Prestige.
But I cannot stand idly by and watch the destruction of key conservation zones around the Azores and in the Irish Box, simply because our Spanish friends and only our Spanish friends wish to catch more fish in these waters.
Our job as parliamentarians, and my job as Chairman of the Committee on Fisheries, is to ensure that fish stocks are allowed to recover.
That said, a number of points in the Commission's proposal give cause for concern in that, for example, the reference data put forward is obsolete, dating back to 2000.
There is a need for a serious and detailed debate on the model to be adopted: whether to opt for industrial fisheries, involving a small number of large, modern economical vessels, or small-scale fisheries, involving a large number of small and medium-sized vessels, which may be less profitable but certainly employ more labour.
Lastly, there is a need for an updated version of the Commission's Action Plan, parts of which ought to have been updated in line with the conclusions of the Fisheries Council in December 2002.
This was the case during the many years when the common agricultural policy was being developed and it is the case now as well with regard to the common fisheries policy.
However, it is dangerous, first and foremost, because we are on the eve of the inauguration of the Mediterranean area of free trade in 2010, which will make the Mediterranean sea a major area of social, economic, human and political exchange for which we must be prepared.
Above all, the Commission's estimate fails to take into account the fact that it is unlikely that it will be possible to retrain workers, such as those in the fisheries sector, who, especially in some areas of Europe, have a low level of education and work in areas suffering from an extremely high unemployment rate.
These considerations call forth the question of what resources to invest to mitigate the socio-economic consequences of this reform.
The fact that 80% of the regions concerned are Objective 1 and 2 regions means that the Structural Funds are currently necessary and crucial for addressing priorities which cannot be confused with the project contained in this resolution.
In our opinion, we need to set up an ad hoc fund, a measure which could even be temporary for implementing recovery plans.
The fact that 22% of the labour force is made up of women is not reflected at all in the Commission's Action Plan.
As you know, the Commission's proposal covers a substantial amount of the regulation on technical measures.
Yes, but there is no other option: a proposal on technical measures has to be very technical.
Furthermore, as a result of the problems with the cod and hake stocks, a number of Commission and Council regulations have been adopted which supplement or amend the regulation on technical measures.
One of the main objectives of our proposal is therefore to draw together all these provisions, which are contained in many separate regulations, into a single regulation and thus make them far more manageable.
There are three issues which arise here: firstly, we want to harmonise the provisions on the individual species of fish which are caught using trawl nets of various mesh sizes in all the Community waters in the north-east Atlantic.
Secondly, the rules should also apply to ships of less than 12 metres in order to provide better protection for young hake.
Thirdly, we want to amend the provisions on grading the catches in order to reduce discards.
We cannot change this option envisaged in the basic regulation and make it a general obligation in a secondary regulation; there are legal obstacles to this.
For more than a decade, scientists have therefore been demanding the management of the fishing effort as well to enable a sustainable conservation policy to be pursued.
That is precisely what we are aiming for with our proposal on the western waters which is dealt with in the Stevenson report.
As you know, the special provisions on access by Spanish and Portuguese ships to the Irish Box and on access to the Portuguese coastal waters lost their legal basis from 1 January 2003.
However, as the relevant regulations from 1995 did not establish any time limit for the western waters, we must remove the legal uncertainty which exists here.
We are therefore proposing a new regulation to replace the existing regulations, containing the following provisions: we want to restrict the fishing effort in the ICES sub-areas of the western waters for all Member States in a non-discriminatory way.
The action plan is intended to alleviate the short-term consequences for fishermen and the fishing industry resulting from the conservation and protection measures, by means of the reprogramming of the FIFG for social measures and a review of all the existing aid, but it also provides for the possible release of additional sums.
I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Committee on Fisheries which has incorporated the following points of the Committee on Budgets into the Resolution: The first stresses that it is not probable that the Council's amendments to the Commission's package on the reform of the CFP, adopted at its meeting of 16 to 22 December 2002, will facilitate the application of this reform nor the scheduled reprogramming of 611 million from the FIFG.
The second points out that the financial resources available in heading 2 of the financial perspectives intended for the fisheries sector and the areas dependent on fishing can be calculated at EUR 28 000 million for the period 2000-2006.
Finally, it is stressed that additional European Union funding can only be allocated to fishing measures intended to compensate for losses if this is compatible with the maximum limit in heading 2 of the financial perspectives, or by employing the flexibility instrument laid down in Article 24 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999.
The time available for this debate is limited, and the issues dealt with by these three reports are very important.
The Committee on Fisheries is requesting additional funding to alleviate the effects of this reform.
The Commission must ensure that the socio-economic structure of these areas is maintained.
With regard to the report on the management of fishing in relation to certain areas and resources, I believe that, when drawing up resolutions, we Members of Parliament must take account of reality.
And the reality is that the transitional period following the accession of Spain and Portugal has come to an end.
You helped us in Morocco; we will help you as much as we can, but the exception has ended.
Finally, my group supports the Commission's proposal on the protection of juveniles.
Correct and effective technical measures should be the basis for achieving the balance between fleet and resources.
The excessive scrapping which some people want to see is anti-economic and antisocial, and could lead us to a situation in a few years when we have created sufficient quantities of fish but do not have either the ships or the fishermen to catch them.
With regard to the consultative committees, I support this measure, but quite frankly I would like the Commission to clarify whether all the Member States are currently in an equal position to implement this new element.
There must be severe cut-backs, as the Fisheries Council decided in December 2002.
Money on its own cannot offer a structural, long-term solution.
In recent years, subsidies have been granted continuously to the small-scale sector that was facing difficult times, but this money has not led to a smoothly-running small-scale fishing industry.
I have already tabled amendments to this effect in the past.
Hence the importance of maintaining the division of the ICES statistical fishing sub-areas IX and X and the FCECA areas.
Discrimination exists when situations that are different and specific are considered to be equal, as is the case with Portuguese fishing.
Lastly, I would also like to mention the specific situation of the outermost regions and the need to preserve existing derogations for access to their exclusive economic zone, as laid down in this report.
Mr President, first of all on the technical measures.
Since 1985 there has been a provision in the technical measures regulation to allow Member States to impose stricter measures for their own fishermen in EU waters.
We have raised this matter in the Committee on Fisheries many times and the Commission says that this provision is redundant, that Article 10 in the new basic regulation allows Member States to enact stricter measures for their vessels.
This right is limited to their own waters, at least so the Commission said in January when it more or less forced Sweden to exploit the depleted cod stocks in the Baltic and the North Sea.
So, if this provision is removed from the technical measures regulation, as the Commission is proposing, then Member States will not be able to impose stricter measures outside their own waters.
On the Irish Box, it makes no sense whatsoever in an important nursery and spawning area to try and increase the number of vessels that are going in there, to open up the Irish Box.
You cannot allow what is going to happen to the Irish Box to go ahead.
Belligerence between Spanish and Irish fishermen and the destruction of fishing gear inside the Irish Box have recently been reported.
This must be seen as a new and worrying development.
Not only fishermen, but also the general public of Ireland see the Irish Box as being of serious concern to them.
Let me reiterate and emphasise that the area known as the Irish Box is a rich fishing area with a high concentration of juvenile fish and spawning grounds.
It is vital that the Irish Box is maintained as a biologically sensitive zone.
Let me remind the Commission that Council Regulation (EC) No 1275/94 specifically recognised the biological sensitivity of the Irish Box, and yet the Commission broke this important link.
In the Commission's revised proposal, diplomatically referred to as the Council's compromise - the one we are not being consulted on - the biologically sensitive nature of the Irish Box is back.
I have therefore tabled amendments for the plenary which address both of these issues.
Mr President, the Irish fishermen both from the North and from the South whose home waters are those of the Irish sea are now staring in dismay at what is happening to their industry.
The time has come when this House must face up to the fact that the fishermen from the North and the South of Ireland, for the first time in history, have come together to face this particular problem.
It is a serious problem, it is a problem that is causing people who were pro-European Parliament to turn against this Parliament.
I believe that the Commission must play a significant role in defending European interests.
What subsequently emerges from the politics in the plenary is another issue.
We have said this in Parliament and it has been said in the Council, but of course Parliament and the Council will then have the final word, because consultations are obligatory, but there is a common policy and common European bodies which must take these decisions after listening to the sectors in all regions.
With regard to the Stevenson report, there are two fundamental principles: firstly, the conservation of resources; secondly, equality of Member States.
These sensitive areas must therefore be sensitive.
I hope that this is not necessary so that the Member States, which have actually come to the end of their transitional period of 17 years - the longest transitional period in the history of the European Union - whose rights have been restricted for these 17 years, can now accede under equal conditions.
There are measures, as the Commissioner knows, which consist of limiting the ACRs, fishing days, the capacity of fleets, all of which are selective technical measures.
It is discriminatory, Commissioner, because the period intended to be used as a reference is 1998-2002, years during which there were two countries - Spain and Portugal - whose rights were restricted or limited.
Finally, Commissioner, I would like you to clarify whether we are discussing the first proposal you made or the proposal which is already in the Council and on which there is an agreement, as certain Members have said.
In any event, the political decisions adopted in this House will have to be respected, but I would insist that what has been debated here today has been a hotchpotch of national interests, unfortunately for fishing, and that is not something which I, as an MEP, wanted to see.
And the Commission is not playing the leading role it should playing in terms of a conservation of resources in the sensitive areas of Europe which affects every one of the Member States in an equal manner.
I would like to thank Mr Ó Neachtain for all his work on what was originally his report.
I regret that he had to move his name from the report but I also understand that he was left with no option.
The proposal from the Council seeks to put in place a new regime for fishing effort in Atlantic waters and a system of fishing effort management, concerning certain Community fishing areas and resources.
However, on the one hand it would appear that the proposal looks for a management instrument to ensure no increase in fishing efforts, but on the other hand the issue of access of Spanish vessels into what is known as the 'Irish Box' becomes a matter of real concern.
The whole issue rests on the question of access to the Irish Box - water within 50 miles of the Irish coast.
This area is an important spawning ground, rich in juvenile fish.
This sensitive biological area deserves protection.
Thus it is vital that the EU restricts the fishing effort in the Irish Box in order that future generations can enjoy a sustainable fisheries.
However, this report as it stands, instead of applying the policy of sustainable development, would open up this area of sensitivity to over-exploitation.
As reports in the Irish Examiner note, fishermen are primarily concerned that fish stocks will be decimated if the Spanish fleet gains unlimited access to the Irish Box.
Even the Irish Marine Minister expressed his frustration that he could not get the European Commission to give its opinion on the legal status of the Irish Box.
I understand that there has now been some communication in this matter and that there is tentative compromise on the table, although the Irish and Spanish ministers are diametrically opposed.
I too share my Irish colleagues' concerns that, as Mr Ó Neachtain stated in the Irish Examiner, we could find these waters completely fished-out in no time at all.
I would therefore like to ask colleagues to recognise the importance of boxes in scientifically sensitive areas.
I hope that colleagues will support the amendments tabled, especially Amendment No 20, and make sure that the vision Mr Ó Neachtain had is seen through in this report.
Mr President, a commitment to sustainability leads us too to support fully Amendment Nos 20 to 30 to the Stevenson report.
We must ensure proper protection for sensitive nursery and spawning grounds such as the Irish Box.
Therefore we thoroughly endorse the involvement of regional advisory councils in decisions on technical measures and we hope for the speedy establishment of such councils.
Even with a moderate level of reduction, effects on communities are severe.
Mr President, there is common ground in the three reports.
The whole Bay of Biscay fishing fleet has this week remained in harbour because of the significant reduction in overall fishing possibilities due to the pollution caused by the wreck of the Prestige.
It is somewhat disappointing and regrettable that the Commission ignores in its proposals what Commissioner Fischler said in London when addressing the fishermen, that is, 'become full players in the fisheries management process'.
This was, in fact, decided in 1995, by common agreement between the two countries, and has had the support of the Commission and the Council.
Mr President, Commissioner, Chairman of the Committee on Fisheries and dear friend, Mr Stevenson, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to you at a particularly difficult time for the autonomous region of the Azores, as has already been said.
Things are also difficult, however, for all those who believe in sustainable development and in the need to reverse the trend of over-exploiting fishery resources and of exterminating species, which is leading our oceans and, with them, our fishing communities, to disaster.
The Council's current position is an invitation to plunder and devastate the Western Waters, flying in the face of the scientific reports that conclude that there is an urgent need to restrict, rather than extend, access to the waters, it ignores the positions and interests of fishing communities and will, if adopted, inevitably lead to an unprecedented disaster.
Commissioner, I should like to remind you of the answer you gave to my parliamentary question on the validity of the current regulations.
We want to see equality between situations that are equal, not a pretence of equality that serves only to cover up a policy of destroying our resources.
For this very reason, I wish to support the rapporteur and to call on all Members to vote for Amendment No 20 of this report tomorrow.
Mr President, I would like to focus on the Fava report and then make a brief point on this absolutely fascinating debate on the Irish Box.
I would propose, and I am anxious to hear your opinion, in view of these budgetary difficulties, giving some of the responsibility back to the Member States - we are going to call for this in another report - allowing them, for example, to apply the de minimis rule to fisheries too, a rule with which you are quite familiar since it is employed in agriculture as well.
Mr President, I am going to talk almost exclusively about the maintenance of the Irish Box, since it illustrates the poles of opinion dividing clearly defined parties; despite this, Parliament's Committee on Fisheries had managed to adopt a report which I believe clearly combines the interests of the different parties since, on the one hand, it responds to the concern of a majority to protect sensitive areas from irresponsible fishing, and on the other, maintains that it is necessary to eliminate any discrimination suffered by Community fleets of any Member State.
The maintenance of the Irish Box is not justified from either a scientific point of view or a legal point of view; it consists of a political concession granted to a country 18 years ago, to make it possible to reach an agreement on the accession of Spain and Portugal to the European Union.
The restriction of access to a fishing area cannot be extended indefinitely, particularly if it affects a specific fleet.
Several judgments clearly indicate that the rules relating to equal treatment laid down in Community legislation not only prohibit explicit discrimination on grounds of nationality, but also prohibit any disguised form of discrimination by means of the application of differentiation criteria which have the same effect in practice.
The transitional period for Spain's accession to the European Union ended in December 2002, and from January this year all restrictions should have disappeared.
In the case of the Irish Box, the measures advocated by some people go even further than the initiatives recently taken to protect cod stocks, a species whose situation cannot be compared with the situation of angler fish, hake or john dory in the Irish Box.
The Act of Accession to the European Union by Spain and Portugal contains the explicit decision to remove all restrictions of access to Community waters in December 2002; legally, for reasons of legislative hierarchy which everybody, from the legal expert to the uninitiated in law, understand, the Regulations of 94 and 95 cannot replace the Act of Accession.
Those of us who vote against Amendment No 20 tomorrow, Mr President, want sustainable fishing resources, but also equality for all countries, discrimination against nobody and we are opting for Europe.
The Commissioner forces the banks in our country to resolve his problem of too much tonnage in EU waters by driving our Irish fishing fleet into bankruptcy.
Yes, you will possibly achieve your goal, but at what cost to this most important industry?
There are 40 Spanish factory vessels in the Irish Box as we speak.
The issue here is whether another 120 should be allowed into this very biologically sensitive area, not just the 40 that are there, but three or four times as many.
If we base our discussion and our debate on the advice of our scientists, on ICES and others who insist that for conservation we must restrict fishing effort in this area, in these most sensitive spawning and nursery grounds, if we follow that line we must be absolutely consistent and restrict right through.
In Amendments Nos 1 and 3, you draw attention to errors in the references in our proposal.
Amendment No 4 concerns industrial fishing, where by-catches of undersized fish and other species undeniably occur, that is true.
Amendments Nos 5, 8 and 10 on the regional advisory councils, as I have already pointed out, are redundant here, in my view.
Amendments Nos 6 and 7 are redundant because their content is already included in the new framework regulation on the common fisheries policy.
I can accept Amendment No 9 to the extent that I can take up the reference to the new framework regulation.
I am happy to accept Amendments Nos 2 to 5 as they are entirely in line with the objectives contained in our proposal.
However, I cannot accept Amendment No 6 as it would delete the recital which sets out the basic concept underlying our proposed regulation, namely to ensure that there is no increase in the overall levels of the fishing effort in the western waters and that the fishing effort is calculated on the basis of the fishing effort actually deployed to date in these fisheries.
I do not think that Amendment No 17 is necessary, as we are safeguarding the monitoring of the fishing effort through the proposal's other provisions.
The inclusion of a clause on changes to the system is acceptable, however, so I endorse Amendment No 19.
Unfortunately, I must reject Amendments Nos 20 to 29.
Free access to the waters beyond the 12-mile zone is a fundamental principle of the common fisheries policy.
It can be restricted if stock conservation measures warrant such a measure.
Amendment No 30 concerns relative stability.
As regards the outermost regions, I can accept Amendments Nos 8 and 13 to the extent that we should also restrict access to stocks other than tuna and related species, in order to protect the interests of local fisherman more effectively.
This should be looked at in more detail.
With regard to the pelagic stocks, I must unfortunately reject Amendments Nos 11, 12, 14, 15, 16 and 18.
The same applies to Amendment No 7, which relates to scientific and biological surveys and Amendment No 9 on satellite monitoring systems.
As regards paragraph 11 of the resolution on the inclusion of employment and health and safety conditions at work, I should point out that these objectives are already taken into account in the common fisheries policy.
I am happy to comply with paragraph 5 of your resolution to the extent that we can always update the Action Plan when the Member States supply us with information on the socio-economic impacts for any future stock recovery plan or multiannual management plan.
We will also be unable to convince the budgetary authorities of the need to make as much as EUR 150 million in additional funding available via the flexibility instrument to alleviate the crisis in the white fish sector if no such demands are forthcoming from the Member States.
Therefore will or will not regional advisory councils be consulted on this technical measures report?
The question whether it is meaningful and necessary, or regarded as necessary, to consult such a body must arise from the given situation.
