This agreement will be valid for 7 years, thus providing for a considerable period of legal certainty.
There is not an extension of the time during which passenger data are kept from 3.5 to 15 years.
There is an increase from 3.5 to 7 years of the time during which data are kept in an active file.
The further period of 8 years that was already provided for in the previous agreements and that undertaking is not newly introduced in this new agreement.
The number of PNR data has been reduced from 34 to 19 as a result of rationalisation and merging.
Sensitive data will be filtered and made accessible only in exceptional circumstances which have been justified and will be deleted after 30 days.
We have always supported having an international agreement at EU level instead of 27 bilateral agreements, because the Union can put forward a stronger position not only on preventing and fighting terrorism, but also on protecting fundamental rights.
How will this be done, Commissioner, when even if 26 of the 27 Member States consider that it has been infringed and one considers that it has not, the agreement cannot be abolished at European level?
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, first of all I note that the Council Presidency is absent during this important debate, which is remarkable as it was responsible for the negotiations.
Then, it looks good superficially, but it is full of loopholes, open definitions and exceptions, when it comes to purpose limitation, for example, or the retention periods, which are going up to 15 years and maybe even more, and they will be applied retroactively.
The reduction from 34 to 19 data is an insult to our intelligence.
We do not even know what purpose the PNR agreement with the United States serves.
If Article 38 is one of them, then why is the European Parliament not formally consulted?
The agreement has been approved by the Member States - after all, they granted us the power to negotiate - so they clearly thought that having this agreement was immensely better than the possibility of not having any agreement at all after 31 July this year, which is actually in a few days' time.
We have established that sensitive data will be destroyed within 30 days, a measure that had not been agreed previously, and we have established that the US Privacy Act will apply to European citizens, something that had been mentioned in many debates here in Parliament as an essential condition: European citizens will be able to complain under the same law as US citizens if the US Department of Homeland Security misuses their data.
Article 24 of the Treaty is an intergovernmental basis and not, unfortunately, a Community basis, because the European Union Court of Justice has so ruled.
I have challenged the Commission to say which of the 15 pieces of information are no longer being transferred to the US, because as far as I see it - and the rapporteur Sophia in 't Veld also mentioned this - most of the fields are merged so that the change is mainly cosmetic.
I would like the Commission to list the 15 information fields which are now no longer being transferred to the US.
The vote will take place on Thursday 12 July 2007.
