I supported these amendments to bring in new rules on public passenger transport services by rail and by road, which seek to rebalance the award of contracts for these services between the public and private sectors.
The market is not offering any answers, and certainly none as far as public transport, and other amenities that are both necessary and loss-making, are concerned.
The report on public service requirements on which we voted today raises expectations of a positive conclusion at second reading of an issue that has taken decades to resolve.
Current European legislation on compulsory packaging materials is 30 years old and is no longer commensurate with current patterns of consumption.
I also agree with the proposal to investigate whether other vehicles, such as vans or other delivery vehicles, should also be fitted with these mirrors. (CS) I welcome the fact that the majority of MEPs have distanced themselves from the parts of the resolution on the EU-Russia summit in which the Left attempted to manipulate the European public into believing that the installation of the US anti-rocket umbrella in Poland and the Czech Republic has paved the way for a new arms race.
The resulting resolution is a forthright political message to take to the impending summit with Russia, stating that we do not accept that country's aggressive policies towards Chechnya, Estonia, Poland and other countries. (PL) Mr President, the debate we held in Parliament before the EU-Russia summit was an example of our consensus and unity.
in writing. (SV) As is well known, the June List believes that neither the EU nor its institutions should conduct foreign policy.
In itself, Amendment 9 from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is commendable.
At the UN's request, Mr Ahtisaari has put together a plan for Kosovo.
I voted for this resolution which recognises the importance of Russia for Europe, especially in energy relations, but also highlights the need for democratic values and human rights.
We cannot, however, conceal our concern in connection with what has been happening in recent days in relations between Russia and the Baltic States, and Estonia in particular.
The EU must be united and unified in defending Estonia and, more generally, any of its Member States against commercial pressures and threats from any non-EU country.
In addition, 50% of natural gas exports from Russia accounts for 25% of the EU's total natural gas consumption.
I hope that on 18 May when the EU-Russia summit will take place, these issues will be highlighted and addressed. (NL) Mr President, I have voted against the Rocard report, a document that proves once again that the European Union lacks the willingness to face the reality of the Arab world.
Whether we like it or not, the fact is that in the Arab world, there is not the slightest bit of interest in political reforms, and even less so in the cultural or intercultural dialogue that is so glorified over here.
in writing. - (FR) The report by Mr Rocard on reforms in the Arab world has just been adopted by a large majority, and I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality and balanced approach of his work.
It also highlights the close link that exists between the rise in extremist movements in the political landscape and the economic and social reality prevailing in these States.
Being in favour of this new realistic and balanced approach, I supported the adoption of this report during the final vote in plenary.
in writing. (SV) The European Parliament has today adopted a position on what the EU should do to bring about reforms in the Arab world.
Amendment 20 by the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe proposes that the EU should not support 'fundamentalist and extremist nationalist' movements.
We have therefore voted against the amendment.
As an institution, the EU must definitely not have views on another country's system.
On this issue and this report I feel entitled to emphasise an idea that I have put forward on several occasions.
During the vote on the Rocard report on reforms in the Arab world, we had to express an opinion on Amendment 21, which calls on those Arab countries that have not yet done so to commit themselves more fully to religious freedom or to the right of individuals and communities freely to profess their beliefs and practise their faith, also guaranteeing the independence and separation of institutions and political power from the religious authorities.
I therefore decided to vote in favour of this amendment, and I am delighted that it should have been accepted by 382 votes, with 222 votes against and 33 abstentions.
I voted in favour of the Kaczmarek report on the Horn of Africa: EU political regional partnership for peace, security and development, because I feel it is vital to consolidate the EU's presence in a region that has been devastated by three major conflicts - in Sudan, Ethiopia/Eritrea and Somalia - and in which a significant proportion of the population, over 22%, lives below the poverty line.
in writing. (PL) Mr President, I support Mr Kaczmarek's report on the European Union's strategy for Africa, which aims to create a regional political partnership with the European Union to foster peace, security and development in the Horn of Africa.
We wanted to emphasise the fact that women and children are the ones who suffer the most during conflicts because they are the most vulnerable groups in the population, and therefore we added to the text an important reference to the United Nations resolution on women in conflicts.
As the discussions on atomic energy have shown, there is no need to increase Parliament's powers just yet. (DE) Mr President, I would like to say how very pleased I am with the decision this House has taken today, by which it has unmistakeably confirmed that there has been for the past 50 years a democratic deficit in the Euratom Treaty and, by a large majority, demanded the power of codecision in matters relating to it.
I also object to the undemocratic nature of Euratom decisions and the waste of resources in the boondoggle that is the ITER project.
The Euratom Treaty now makes it possible to have some freedom of choice: those States that wish to can develop this sector and this technology, in which Europe is the leader.
It is because this framework, as it operates today, seems satisfactory to us that we voted against this report.
The report recommends, in fact, that Euratom be transformed into a specialised annex to the EEC Treaty, with institutional procedures that would deprive the Member States of their freedom of choice.
in writing. (PT) Nuclear energy has been referred to as one of the energy sources that produces least carbon.
in writing. (SV) Because the European Union is also a union of values that should safeguard the human rights of every individual within it, we have chosen to vote in favour of the present report.
This is also in contrast to what happens in Malta, where the prices are sky-high.
in writing. (SV) We voted in favour of the report on housing and regional policy.
The report does well to highlight the role of housing policy in strengthening social and territorial cohesion.
Housing policy is an important tool for the Member States to use in combating segregation, and the right to a place to live is fundamental.
The EU should regard the Member States' housing policies as integral to their welfare policies and so exempt such policies from competition rules governing state aid.
in writing. - (FR) The lack of decent affordable housing directly influences the lives of the citizens, restricting as it does their ability to integrate into society, as well as their choices in terms of education, training and professional development.
As a French member of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, it is crucial to me that all Europeans have good access to social services, health care and training, as well as to trade and to public administration.
Investment in social housing plays a crucial role in making housing available to many who would not otherwise have access to the property market, people who normally see their path to housing blocked.
That being said, the prioritisation of the 'homeless' issue in housing policy is vital in guaranteeing decent housing for all, and in combating effectively this growing form of social exclusion.
in writing. (SV) We in the European Parliament have today voted on a report describing the need for decent housing to be available to everyone in return for reasonable rents.
That is why I abstained from voting today.
The Andria report on housing policy and regional policy is right to set the subject against the backdrop of the European Social Model, of energy policy, employment, urban development and the internal market.
The housing market has been undergoing major changes in recent years, due to supply and demand, but also due to social and demographic changes in our society.
The lack of social housing is massive, even though accommodation is not only a fundamental right but also a fundamental aspect of regional development, both urban and rural.
The Andria report is important to place the subject of housing on the European political agenda.
That is why learning from each other across the 27 Member States, sharing best practice and finding common solutions can help us tackle the growing problem.
The point the rapporteur made, quoting Professor Hunt, the Nobel Prize Winner, that of the 20 top universities only three are from the EU and those three are located in the UK illustrates the need for a more strategic approach to funding research in Europe's universities.
in writing. (PL) I am voting in favour of the report on the contribution of the future regional policy to the innovative capacity of the European Union.
However, without specific solutions, innovation in general, and the ambitious challenges of the Lisbon Strategy in particular, will only exist on paper.
in writing. - (FR) At a time when labour law is the subject of debate in the European Parliament, and 13 years after the adoption of the Directive on European Works Councils, the adoption of this resolution constitutes an essential precondition.
The detail of the way in which the dialogue between employers and employees should be conducted, is, moreover, a matter for the social partners to decide on, and the resolution on which we voted today does, in fact, give them considerable responsibility in that regard.
