Following the Commission communication presented in June, we were responsible for conducting a process aimed at carrying out the European Council mandate and achieving consensus on the common principles of flexicurity.
In this context, the understanding that we reached with the social partners at the Tripartite Social Summit held on 18 October in Lisbon gave important impetus to this debate.
The involvement of everyone in this process is key to finding successful solutions and we need a climate of trust between social partners and with the institutions.
As a result of all this work that I have mentioned, during which we were always able to count on the assistance of the Commission, the Council is now able to endorse a set of common principles on flexicurity which we hope to formally adopt at the meeting on 5 and 6 December.
We feel it is essential to invest in the social mobilisation of our citizens within this strategy and, in this context, I must mention the vital importance of this House's involvement.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Mr President, the Commission's communication on flexicurity has triggered an important and useful discussion throughout the Union.
In our society, security depends on change.
I would also like to welcome the European social partners' agreement with the analysis of labour market problems; their analysis was presented at the recent Tripartite Social Summit in Lisbon on 18 October 2007 and, among other things, also looked at flexicurity.
On the contrary, flexibility and mobility must aim higher: that is, towards better jobs, towards a better balance between work and family and private life, a more efficient economy as a whole.
As you know, in the next few weeks the Council will make a decision on common principles of flexicurity.
I would also like to react to the paragraph of the report in which it is stated that the open-ended contract should form the basis of a social security system.
However, I believe that we should adopt more general systems of social security, which would apply both to open-ended contracts and to part-time employment: in short, the intention is that these forms of employment should also be provided with adequate social security cover, not that open-ended contracts should be weakened.
Mr President, I believe that, with the exception of these few reservations, the report is a useful, relevant contribution to the discussion about flexicurity, and once again I would like to thank the European Parliament for it.
The whole concept behind these guidelines on flexicurity is to tackle the challenges faced by the labour markets of Europe.
Although there is no common model for flexicurity, we must recognise that Europe faces many common challenges in its labour markets that require a joint response.
Around 100 million Europeans are living in or on the threshold of poverty.
The effects of inequality can be seen all too easily when you compare countries where there are major differences, such as those in Eastern and Western Europe.
Thus, the challenges are clear to Europe.
My perception as rapporteur is that there is a need for a stronger focus on the social Europe, to ensure that workers' rights are respected throughout the EU and for us to have more and better jobs.
Secondly, we must ensure that social partners are involved to a greater extent.
Europe must continue to grow so that new jobs can be created.
Furthermore, the inequalities in our society are becoming ever more widespread, such as the lack of a minimum wage - which must be adopted in all countries - and the need to recognise workers' rights.
Social and employment policy falls within the competences of the Member States, and any European Union action in the area of flexicurity must comply with the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in Article 5 of the EU Treaty.
These changes can only be successfully achieved if there is a climate of trust between social partners, and this can only be developed by promoting social dialogue.
The PPE-DE Group tabled 120 amendments to the initial report and, following a process of negotiation, we have arrived at a final version which I believe is balanced and comprehensive.
The report clearly refers to the need to apply principles of subsidiarity and proportionality when implementing and managing flexicurity.
First in its Green Paper on labour law and now in its communication on flexicurity, it puts the emphasis on employment security rather than job security.
Thirdly, a balanced form of flexicurity needs to be built around the principles included in paragraph 15 of this report, and those principles need to be incorporated into an amended guideline package.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we wish to support the Commission in its bid to encourage collective reflection on flexicurity.
The EU must be behind dialogue among all players in this area.
Employees need flexibility to reconcile their professional lives and their personal lives, or to pursue their professional lives along new paths.
The report is a step in the right direction.
What's more, the key role and the control function performed by the trade unions - which in Denmark are an essential element of the flexicurity model - cannot be taken as a given in other Member States at present, or indeed at any time in the near future.
In some governments, too, where flexicurity is interpreted and championed solely as flexibility, trade union rights are being further curtailed at the same time.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, flexicurity is nothing new.
For this reason, my Group has fought for some very practical ideas: against the idea of a labour market rigidity indicator and in favour of a good employment indicator, so as to emphasise that stable, secure employment is the norm; against unjustified dismissal, in that it amounts to discrimination; against a recurring accumulation of atypical contracts, or lifelong insecurity, which is a modern form of slavery; in favour of the right of those not in employment to an income, as they cannot live on air alone; in favour of bringing together different forms of welfare assistance; and against discrimination affecting women at work.
I was therefore overjoyed when the Committee on Women's Rights unanimously made a series of proposals for improving the Commission's proposal on this point.
Commissioner Spidla, only if flexibility and security are brought into equilibrium will the new flexicurity concept become widely accepted.
As my final point, let me say that bringing forward the date for lifting the transitional measures obstructing the free movement of workers from 2013 to 2009 sends out the wrong signal.
In areas where far higher hourly wages are paid with a high level of social security, the pressure from migration is intense and difficult to manage.
The Commission's focus is on employment security rather than job security.
Many have said that there is no single model but that all must proceed on the basis of their own concepts.
The most important thing must be to create a flexible labour market by raising the level of education through training and re-training programmes. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, flexicurity is neither a panacea nor a taboo subject.
At its meeting on 5 and 6 December, the Council will hopefully adopt these guidelines.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (DE) In one of the amendments tabled on this report, an attempt is made to secure the European Parliament's support for European minimum wages.
in writing. - (PT) We regret that the report does not oppose, with sufficient clarity, the strategy of flexicurity defended by the European Commission.
In the huge demonstration that took place on 18 October in Lisbon, arranged by the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers), Portuguese workers said no to these proposals.
in writing. - (RO) The report raises for discussion an essential European issue: the European Union actions towards integration into the labour market cannot ignore the arbitrary restriction of the free movement of workers.
For this reason, I request that the European Council examine very carefully, in December, the issue of the free movement restriction in the European Union for the new Member States and that it adopts a mandatory common position to reduce at a minimum the barriers to free movement of labour.
