Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (DE) Madam President, today we finally saw the introduction of a transitional period for existing nutritional and health claims on the labels of food intended for children.
Products have already been taken off the market because the Regulation has entered into force in the meantime.
Nonsensical red tape - a superfluous piece of legislation! (FI) Madam President, I think it is very important that we should try and have health claims on products, but it is right that we need to ensure that they are true and based on knowledge.
The majority of cheap copies of patent spare parts today, however, are produced in Asia, not in Europe.
This directive is unfortunately an example of inconsistent EU strategy. (CS) Madam President, I would also like to express my disagreement with limiting legal protection of industrial design for spare parts.
What troubles me is that in the final analyses it will be the customer who will be placed at risk. (DE) Madam President, I wish to say that I voted for the Castiglione report and that I believe it to be a very balanced report, particularly if we consider the way it started out, with 800 amendments tabled in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
I believe this report lays the foundations for progress, and I hope that the European Commission, acting in the spirit of the new Treaties, will take due account - full account, if at all possible - of the decisions of the European Parliament. (EN) Madam President, today's vote on the reform of the wine market is a resounding success for the European Parliament and for the various vine-growing regions and wine producers.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have presented a very balanced framework today which will be a good basis for the forthcoming negotiations in the Council.
Such wines have been produced in my country since the 13th century - for almost 800 years - and I am pleased that the European Parliament has recognised the reality and the fact.
Producers and exporters in the countries supported would benefit from competitive advantage.
I voted against the report. (CS) I supported the reform of the wine market, which will improve the quality and competitiveness of European wines.
This is contrary to the principles of competition in the internal market and I cannot but disagree with it.
In the meantime, due to excessive subsidies, the low prices of surplus wine are pushing quality wines from other Member States out of the market.
I understand that a reform of the wine market is necessary.
Kent and Surrey, Sussex and Hampshire, Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Berkshire are planted with commercially viable vineyards that stand or fall by the quality of their produce.
These two forms of radicalism, are what we need to eradicate in order to have peace and not terrorism. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out that I voted against, although in error I voted for - and I give official notification of that - the report on terrorism.
Then, this House voted against an amendment tabled by myself and other UEN Members in which we called Europe's attention to Al-Qaeda's infiltration of the Maghreb.
Still, the amendments proposed against by the Union for Europe of the Nations Group should not have been rejected as it called for attention to the development of terrorism inside Europe because in my country banned terrorist organizations develop under the umbrella of the ruling MRF party. (FI) Madam President, I think this resolution is fine but slightly inconsistent as you get the impression in some places that one is, as it were, surrendering to terrorism.
Instead of standing up against terrorism, the author and many others take a stand against partnership with the United States in the fight against terrorism.
Another reason why I voted against the draft resolution is that it calls on the Commission and the Council to bring detainees from Guantánamo to Europe.
The third reason why I voted against the resolution is that it rejects measures which are demonstrably usable in the fight against terrorism, namely the extension of passenger name records to Europe and a reinforcement of Europol.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (PT) The Aviation Agreement with Morocco is the second agreement relating to the so-called 'common European airspace' and the first concluded, in this context, with a country outside the continent of Europe.
Moreover, this agreement is based almost exclusively on support for two aims which we oppose: the opening of markets and the harmonization of regulations to promote competition in air transport.
in writing. - (PT) In June and July this year, the Commission received the third and fourth applications for mobilisation of this Fund.
Both applications are connected with the relocation of production to third countries, causing 4 211 workers to be laid off.
So far, in addition to these two applications and two French requests which have already been approved, the Commission has received further applications from Italy, Malta, Spain and Portugal.
in writing. - (CS) The total funds taken from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund represent around 3.6% and involve only three countries.
in writing. - (PT) The mobilisation of the Flexibility Instrument, along with the amendment of the Interinstitutional Agreement, is an integral part of the draft Community budget for 2008.
Moreover, through the mobilisation of the Flexibility Instrument, the EU Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) is also to receive a further EUR 70 million in funding.
He explains that the 'demands identified' include reinforcement of the EU 'missions' in Kosovo and Afghanistan.
in writing. - (PL) Madam President, mobilisation of the Flexibility Instrument, like revision of the financial perspective, is the natural outcome of the conciliation agreement of 23 November concerning the budget for 2008.
Such is the case with the draft budget for 2008.
in writing. - (SV) We cannot endorse a system in which taxpayers' money is used to market European agricultural products in third countries.
in writing. - (PT) Simplifying the European legislation on information provision and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries is most important for the development of a simpler and more manageable CAP.
The rapporteur rightly points out that in order to make progress in formulating a simple and effective agricultural policy for Europe, the Community system of information provision and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries needs to be simplified.
The EU is also to find solutions to counteract the 'social dumping' which is now common practice in some third countries and which is reducing our fisheries products' ability to compete.
in writing. - The common organisation of the market in fisheries products is intended to ensure stability in the market and security of income for those involved in the sector.
in writing. - (PT) As we have pointed out, the national authorities have long complied and ensured compliance with the requirements in force under international agreements in the area of civil aviation.
Cooperation between the EU Member States and between those states and other countries is already a reality, a reality that could be further encouraged and developed but which already ensures respect for each country's sovereignty, for workers and their rights (guaranteeing social harmonisation, in particular, by the application of the most favourable conditions), and for the rights of users.
in writing. - The Leichtfried report marks the culmination of complex negotiations involving the Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
The extension of the powers of the EASA is an important development for aviation safety in Europe and my group was able to support the final compromise.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I confirm my previous vote for the Leichtfried report.
in writing. - I shall be voting for this report and I must congratulate the rapporteur on what is a technical issue of great importance.
Regarding cabin crew licensing, clearly this issue causes some concern in certain Member States and has resulted in a determined lobbying effort by the cabin crew trade unions.
in writing. - (PT) As is generally the case with regulations in this area, the specific objectives of this report are based on harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States in order to promote the development of the European internal market, in this case with respect to nutrition and health claims made on foods.
The proposal consists of two amendments to Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on nutrition and health claims made on foods, and the purpose of the proposal is to provide for an adequate transitional period for health claims referring to children's development and health.
in writing. - I voted to approve this report because of the checks that need to be made to ensure the health and nutritional claims made.
in writing. - (NL) Liberalisation of the market in car parts has been the subject of heated debate ever since 1993.
I am for European liberalisation as swiftly as possible, so I favour a transitional period that is as short as possible - five years.
I shall of course be voting against amendments which make it possible for Member States to drag their feet over liberalisation during the transitional period.
The Commission proposal advocates unprotected markets, whereas this report advocates a transitional period of 5 years for countries where there is market protection, as in the case of Portugal.
The argument used is that the design of the product must not be altered, the best known example being that of the motor vehicle industry, although this proposal for a directive also applies to other industries.
in writing. - (FR) In the Lehne report on the legal protection of designs, I decided to support and lend my signature to an amendment proposing an eight-year transition period before complete liberalisation of intellectual property rights on component parts of complex products, such as motor vehicles, used for the purpose of restoring their original appearance.
in writing. - (FR) The directive on the legal protection of designs and models, as submitted to the House, proposes complete liberalisation of the market in component parts, notably in the motor vehicles sector.
in writing. - I supported the compromise package and rejected those amendments seeking to extend the transitional period for the "repair clause".
We are also opposed to the proposals which advocate the use of European taxpayers' money to market wines in third countries.
Furthermore, these arrangements will be decidedly beneficial for the production of fruit wine in my own country, and that is the main reason why I support the report.
in writing. - (PT) We are voting against this report because it does not significantly alter the most important aspects of the European Commission's bad proposal for the vineyard and wine sector.
in writing. - (PT) Although I agree with the need to reform the CMO in the wine sector and broadly speaking support the European Commission's proposal, I consider that the Castiglione report has made an important contribution, proposing some amendments which substantially improve the Commission's document.
in writing. - (FR) I welcome the general thrust of this report with its thorough overhaul of the European Commission proposal, which had included, by the way, a massive grubbing-up operation affecting 400 000 hectares of vines.
in writing. - (DE) In the common organisation of the wine market, the Commission seeks to take account of the special characteristics of wine-producing regions by delegating more responsibility and creating more scope for initiative.
in writing. - (DE) In years when conditions are unfavourable for vine-growing and when there is too little sunshine, the fructose content of grapes is insufficient to produce the volume of alcohol required for fermentation.
in writing. - (SV) The amendments to the report which we had to consider in today's vote are quite ludicrous.
An example: the amount of sugar to be contained in different kinds of wine should in fact be left to the consumers who buy the products themselves to decide.
Producers in other parts of the world have managed to produce wines which appeal to the tastes of European consumers and at the same time are cheaper than European wines.
The question of principle is whether it is right for poorer countries to be crowded out in order to favour European wine production.
The truth is the 150 000 hectares of illegal vineyards in Spain and Italy.
in writing. - (DE) With its proposal for the reform of wine production, the Commission seems to have come up with yet another pièce de résistance.
The Castiglione report is an improvement on these proposals, which is why I have voted for it.
in writing. - (FR) My colleagues and I backed Giuseppe Castiglione's report on the common organisation of the market in wine by a large majority.
I voted in favour of Amendment 271, opposing the Commission plan to put an end to chaptalisation.
I also supported Amendments 33 and 223, opposing complete liberalisation of planting rights from 1 January 2014: the interests of wine-growers dictate that we should wait until the end of the grubbing-up scheme, to see how effective it has been, before we contemplate liberalisation.
European, especially Italian, producers are experiencing fierce competition from new producers.
To enable the European Union to consolidate its leading position in the wine sector, the reform of the CMO in wine should focus on improving quality, and that means promoting, safeguarding and reinforcing regional, designation of origin and geographical indication wines, which represent quality European products on the world market.
in writing. - (DE) In years when conditions are unfavourable for vine-growing and when there is too little sunshine, the fructose content of grapes is insufficient to produce the volume of alcohol required for fermentation.
in writing. - I voted for this report but there are still many areas of concern that Parliament has chosen not to address, notably to make the sector more competitive against third country imports, and to improve the quality of wine produced at EU level.
These amendments are crucial for northern countries and my own wine producers in the United Kingdom.
The European wine industry still faces many threats, and in the EU we are seeing our own market share disappearing to New World countries.
in writing. - The wine market in the EU depends upon the widest variety of choice and upon local production which is sustainable.
I voted to maintain this tradition and for an open market.
in writing. - Conservatives voted against this resolution for the reasons that, firstly, the motion calls for more EU involvement through the proposed Reform Treaty and would thus extend the competence of the EU into the highly sensitive area of national security.
in writing. - The British Socialist Delegation (EPLP) welcomed and voted in favour of the resolution on terrorism.
The EPLP is convinced that the EU can and will do all it can to defeat terrorism and that with neighbouring Member States and international allies working together we are more likely to achieve this ultimate goal than by isolationist policies.
in writing. - (PL) Madam President, the EU Member States have a duty to combat terrorism in all its forms, while remaining within the bounds of law and respect for human and civil rights and freedoms.
Despite the amendments that our group introduced, the resolution ultimately adopted in plenary reflects neither the spirit nor the letter of our position on this matter, and that is why I voted against it.
in writing. - (DE) Europe has become more of a target for terrorists because it has allowed itself to be reduced to the role of an accomplice in the breaches of international law and human rights committed in the name of US foreign policy and also because it has not managed to act as an honest broker on the Palestinian question.
This strategy against 'radicalisation' reveals the real target of this so-called 'counter-terrorism' policy of the EU and its enforcement mechanisms: all those who resist and challenge its reactionary policy.
in writing. - The Fine Gael delegation in the European Parliament voted against paragraph 16 of the resolution on the Commission's Legislative and Work Programme 2008 as we are vehemently opposed to any EU initiative to establish a European Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB).
in writing. - (PT) We are voting against this resolution because the proposals expressing our serious concern over the acceleration of the process of liberalisation and deregulation, which is occurring in many sectors and which poses a threat to employment, the quality of services provided and the future of public services in the EU, were not accepted.
It also lays emphasis on the neoliberal Lisbon Strategy, which has been the principal instrument used in the EU to promote the liberalisation and privatisation of services and public facilities, flexibility and adaptability in labour markets, wage reductions and the opening up to private interests of most social security provisions, including pensions and health.
in writing. - (PL) Madam President, the work programme for 2008 adopts a complex approach aimed at implementing a vision of Europe that meets its citizens' future expectations.
It should be stressed that the work plan was elaborated in the light of detailed discussions with other institutions, including the issues discussed recently in the debate on globalisation at the Council's informal meeting in Lisbon.
The programme also includes priorities in the field of communications that are a further step by the Commission in its efforts to improve the flow of information about the EU to the citizens of Europe.
in writing. - (PT) Among the many aspects that warrant criticism on this subject, I would like to focus on one of the priorities for 2008, described by the President of the Commission as one of the most significant: the ratification of the proposal for a Treaty on European Union.
This is the reason for the amendment to the Interinstitutional Agreement (IIA) - which established the Financial Framework for 2007-2013 - increasing the ceiling for authorisations granted under subheading 1a (competitiveness for growth) for the years 2008 to 2013 to a total of EUR 1 600 million at current prices, at the cost of under-budgeting and under-implementing the items under heading 2 ('preservation and management of natural resources', namely agriculture, fisheries and the environment) in 2007.
in writing. - (RO) I am in favour of adopting the European Commission's legislative programme for next year and I believe it reflects the political priorities of the European Union very well.
I remind the European Commission that 12 Member States, representing over 100 million citizens of the European Union, are still excluded from the Visa Waiver Program for the United States of America.
in writing. - (PL) As a member of the ACP-EU Parliamentary Assembly, I wish to support the results of last week's EU-Africa summit meeting in Lisbon.
It is good that the priorities set until the next summit in 2009 refer not only to peace, security, human rights, energy, climate change and migration, but also to combating poverty through employment, investment in health care, and education.
in writing. - (PT) If there were any doubts about the EU's real intentions with regard to the free trade agreements it proposes to establish with the ACP (African, Caribbean and Pacific) Group of States, agreements which are described as 'economic partnership agreements' (EPAs) and which were much in evidence at the recent EU-Africa summit because some African countries refused to sign them, a reading of the resolution that has now been approved would suffice to explain them.
However, João Cravinho, Portugal's Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, as President of the Council, had already made things quite clear at the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly at Kigali on 21 November.
That is the object of the 'General Affairs and External Relations' Council decision of 17 November 2007.
in writing. - (DE) I welcome the fact that a large percentage of the European Parliament supports the substance of the Kigali Declaration on Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) which was jointly formulated in Rwanda by Members of Parliament from European, African, Caribbean and Pacific countries.
I am disappointed, however, that a jointly negotiated text which was approved by the Members of the European Parliament and the parliamentarians from the ACP countries at the ACP-EU meeting in Kigali has suddenly been rejected by the EPP-ED and Liberal Groups in Strasbourg.
in writing. - (FR) EPAs must not be seen merely as free-trade agreements in the WTO sense and, above all, they must not undermine the already vulnerable economies of communities overseas.
These agreements must constitute proper partnerships that will make for the establishment of a new economic and trading environment to promote development in all the territories concerned.
