Greek Presidency The next item is the joint debate on the European Council report and Commission statement on the European Council in Thessaloniki on 20-21 June 2003, and a statement by the President-in-Office of the Council on the review of the Greek presidency.
We are also grateful for the assistance which they have offered in a number of areas of interest to Parliament, including the conclusion of our negotiations on an interinstitutional agreement on better regulation and law-making, the party political statute, and their considerable assistance - although we are still short of target - in working with us on the issue of the Members' Statute.
Mr President, Mr President of the European Parliament, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to have the opportunity to present the results of the Greek Presidency from this tribune today.
Last January, when we held the first debate here on our priorities, I stressed that what we had to strive for was to support a strong Europe, which participates and acts in a multi-centre global system and works for peace, development and cooperation.
I believe that, because of these events, Europe has grown up over these six months.
Events have made it politically more mature and more determined to proceed with new actions and have highlighted the need to meet the challenges relating to its future.
Greece had the good fortune to assume the Presidency in an exceptionally important six-month period.
Today, the debate on foreign policy, defence, security, the global strategic perception of Europe which has come about over these months and the draft Constitutional Treaty, bears witness to the fact that work has now begun, work which will result in a different form of cooperation.
Ladies and gentlemen, in December 2002, the Greek Presidency presented its priorities and specific objectives.
First of all, to complete the enlargement of the European Union.
Thirdly, to complete the work of the Convention on the future of Europe.
Fourthly, to deal with the phenomenon of illegal immigration and immigration in general and, fifthly, to promote specific priorities in the field of foreign relations.
I can state today, at the end of these six months, that we worked hard towards these objectives and that we achieved very satisfactory results, which I should like to set out for you briefly.
In April, the Council adopted revised partnership texts with the three candidate countries.
The new partnership with Turkey includes specific terms on numerous issues, including the good neighbours policy, property belonging to minorities, religious freedom and limiting the role of the army.
As regards the second issue, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of Lisbon, we know how important the issues described under this title are and that, provided we resolve them, they will help us deal with the problems of development, environmental charges and the creation of a knowledge-based economy.
The most important results, briefly, are as follows: the agreement on better coordination of financial policies and the adoption of the new economic policy guidelines for the period from 2003 to 2005.
We introduced the tripartite social conference which was informal and has now been formalised and which, of course, allows us to broaden the social dialogue.
There was agreement on tax arrangements in relation to tax evasion to third countries and taxation of energy products.
We completed the relevant debate and there was agreement, as there was on the action plan to increase investment in research and incorporate new technologies into European education systems.
I should like here to emphasise that the decision to withdraw single hull tankers, on which all the interested parties cooperated, was an important decision for environmental protection, a decision which in previous efforts years ago, after the accident of the Erika, was not taken.
Discussions were held for 18 months in the Convention and your participation was a determining factor.
We must not start discussing everything from square one at the Intergovernmental Conference, nor must we focus on one issue or another and fail to reach a solution which has politically predefined margins, as referred to in the decision taken in Halkidiki.
We must close the Intergovernmental Conference by 1 May and we must sign after 1 May, so that the new members can sign and the text is ready before the elections on 15 June, so that the European citizens know what they will be voting on.
The European Commission stated that it had approximately EUR 140 million at its disposal.
We noted that this sum was available and we then decided to promote coordination and cooperation on guarding the borders, because it is clear that the problem of illegal immigration, as we saw a few weeks ago in Italy, for example, cannot be dealt with by one country alone, given that illegal immigrants come in, for example, by boat and try to disembark in one Mediterranean country or another and there must be overall monitoring of the area.
The second point we emphasised was the undertaking to repatriate illegal immigrants.
We called on the Commission to examine the possibility of new ways of safeguarding repatriation.
However, because there are already numerous treaties and agreements on repatriation, which essentially do not operate, we said that the Commission would need to evaluate cooperation with third countries on all issues relating both to immigration and cooperation with the European Union on the basis of specific criteria and take this into account when making agreements or policies with these countries, because it is not possible - this is not stated in the text but it is generally accepted - for us to make a policy of active help and cooperation while, at the same time, the countries we trade with are indifferent to the obligations which they have to combat the phenomena of illegal immigration.
For European citizens, the agreement means a better quality of life, because farmers' income support will depend on compliance with European legislation on the environment, public health, food safety, hygiene and animal welfare.
Thirdly, shifting a very large part of common agricultural policy subsidies from products to income support to farmers will seriously strengthen the position of the European Union at the forthcoming WTO negotiations.
With this agreement, the Union will speak with one clear voice.
Ladies and gentlemen, as far as foreign relations are concerned, I can report that there was agreement between the Member States of the Union, followed by agreement with the countries of the Western Balkans, confirming the accession prospects of the countries in the region, adopting a new procedure for regular political dialogue and promoting the harmonisation of their legislation with the Community acquis and an important increase in financial support.
Iraq, as we know, was the most difficult chapter of our Presidency.
And following the United Nations Security Council resolution, there is now a framework for cooperation and we are in constant contact with the United Nations so that we can help with the reconstruction of Iraq within the framework of its resolutions.
The Presidency had repeated contacts with the countries in the area and with the other countries and I believe that the truce achieved is the result both of the actions of the Quartet and of the European Union.
As far as trans-Atlantic relations are concerned, the Greek Presidency made every possible effort to defuse the tension which had arisen in trans-Atlantic relations and I believe that the visit to Washington demonstrated that we have good cooperation.
The Greek Presidency promoted a substantial improvement in relations between the European Union and Russia at the summit held in St Petersburg.
Finally, I should like to move from political issues to defence and security policy.
It acquired it by settling outstanding issues, such as the contribution of forces on the part of the partners, the application of the programme of manoeuvres and the development of crisis management procedures.
The report helped to overcome the opposition which had appeared - and which I do not believe really existed - between certain countries cooperating to promote defence and security issues and other countries which did not want any such particular cooperation.
To close, I should like to refer to two issues relating to Community institutions.
The first is the review of the status of Community staff.
Finally, two issues of immediate interest to the European Parliament were the Interinstitutional Agreement to improve the regulatory environment and, secondly, the regulation on the status of European political parties.
I thank you warmly for your contribution, and I wish you all every success during the forthcoming Italian Presidency. . (IT) Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the half-way stage of a year full of ambitious projects and intense debate on the nature and destiny of Europe.
Lastly the text of the Constitution now includes the Charter of Fundamental Rights safeguarding the rights of all European citizens.
We must realise that, if we do not make the leap today, Europe will no longer have any influence on the international stage in 30 or 40 years' time.
The Commission will play its part in making improvements in this regard, starting with the opinion that will be published in September in time for the start of the IGC.
The second point is the reform of the Commission and the staff regulations.
We are approaching the last year of the Commission's term of office.
The aim is to bring the new regulations into force on 1 May 2004, the same day on which the new Member States will become part of the Union.
I have to say that I have worked with many administrations in my life, and rarely have I encountered such hard-working, high-calibre employees as I have observed in the EU institutions.
I therefore believe that the new staff regulations will allow our staff to work with renewed energy and pride, especially when their colleagues from 10 new Member States arrive.
The third point I want to focus on is immigration and asylum policy and the management of the Union's external borders.
The Commission would like to congratulate the Greek Presidency on sustaining a consistent and balanced position on these matters.
Moreover, I am happy to note that the European Council conclusions were inspired by the Commission's communications of 4 June.
We have, of course, produced an estimate of resources which does not exceed the limits of the budget - we have remained strictly within the limits of the budget - but we have estimated the resources needed at EUR 140 million for the years 2004 to 2006, and at EUR 250 million for a multiannual cooperation programme with non-Member countries over the period 2004 to 2008.
As far as relations with third countries are concerned, the new programme of cooperation proposed by the Commission on 11 June will provide substantial support for the common readmission policy, which is another milestone, and it is crucial that you and the Council approve this proposal before the end of this Parliamentary term.
The European Council has asked the Commission to proceed towards integrated management of external borders, and we believe that the best solution is to set up an agency; this will make it possible to improve implementation of the Council's strategic guidelines, in agreement with the relevant national authorities, in such a way as to constitute a network of coordination.
Indeed, the main thing is to strike a balance between security and our commitment to upholding freedoms, a commitment which we have made, which we confirm and which we can on no account go back on.
A number of factors have helped us achieve this result: the entry into force of the Treaty of Nice, the new proposal drawn up by the Commission, the use of majority voting and, above all, first-rate cooperation between the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
At last, European political parties have a clear and transparent framework in which to work and can count on a source of financing that will be borne, at least partially, by the Community budget.
Indeed, as we all know, the political parties are the key element in the Union's democratic structure: without them there can be no integration and no European awareness.
This is what we promised you in Athens, Prime Minister, and we have kept our word because we know that your success is our shared success.
The highlight of the Greek Presidency - and you were able to build on the good preparatory work done by the Danish Presidency and also on the European Parliament's decision of 9 April - was unquestionably the signature of the accession treaties on 16 April in the Stoa Attalou.
When we alighted from the bus - and I should particularly like to thank you for inviting the group chairmen to this event, something that should set a precedent for other ceremonial occasions in the European Union - I had the good fortune to be able to accompany the first freely elected prime minister of Poland, Tadeusz Mazowiecki, down the steps at the side of the Acropolis to the Stoa Attalou, and we talked about the great change in Europe and the desire of the people of Central and Eastern Europe to live in freedom.
As you mentioned yourself, your presidency has been overshadowed by the war in Iraq.
Our first conclusion is that if national positions are to be adopted on an issue of foreign policy or if two or three countries wish to take a stance, then they are obliged first to consult all of their European Union partners and to resolve the issues together.
We must act together and Europe, the European Union, must not go into these difficult decisions when it is already divided into two, three or four camps.
Europeans must act together!
The second point concerns the Convention.
But it is precisely if we in Europe want to be on an equal footing with our American friends that this European Security and Defence Policy needs to be formulated in such a way that it does not see America as an opponent, but as a partner, a country together with which we wish to solve problems on this earth.
But I would insist that this is not solely a law enforcement issue, a task for the police.
It is a problem that needs to be resolved above all in the countries of the Mediterranean and in North Africa, and that is why we need European Union assistance for these countries, and these countries have to reform so that the young people in them have a genuine future and do not put their lives in danger by setting off on their travels.
We see this problem of immigration not only as a policing problem, but also as a fundamentally human problem and the key is to give people the chance of a future in their home countries.
I should particularly like to thank its President, Mr Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, for his work, but also the two Members in the Convention Praesidium, Iñigo Méndez de Vigo from our group and Klaus Hänsch from the Socialist Group, as well as our group spokesman, Elmar Brok.
We must now call for this draft constitution to form the basis for the work in the Convention and for the decision to be made in the Convention now on the basis of this draft constitution.
The task before us is immense, but I believe that we can achieve it.
I should like to thank you in particular, Mr President-in-Office, for your contribution to the Statute for European political parties.
I was pleased for you on 16 April; you did your duty, as we would expect from a presidency, and I should like to thank you very much for this.
Mr President, Mr President?in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, to congratulate the Group of the European People's Party on their fiftieth anniversary.
Mr President, I have a problem.
In line with the thinking of the Presidency, firstly, with regard to enlargement, the ceremony of 16 April in the Stoa, in the Market Square next to the Acropolis, was an important event.
I would like to thank you for the way you treated the representatives of the European Parliament, headed by our President, but above all I would like to thank you for the historic opportunity which took place in what was the cradle of democracy and also, in relation to an issue which is very close to the hearts of all Europeans and very dramatic for Greece - the case of Cyprus and relations with Turkey - the intelligence and flexibility being shown by the current Greek Government in establishing and developing relations with such an important ally.
I believe we should also stress, as the President has done, the progress that has been made on maritime safety, particularly in view of Greece's role as the main European power.
With regard to the future of Europe, the fact that the Convention has concluded its work during the six-month period is an important step, producing a text which does not contain options, which does not contain red cards, and which, as the President has said, and I take good note of this, only needs to be subjected to technical modifications.
Of course, we would have liked a constitution with more qualified majority voting in social areas, on taxation, on foreign and security policy and with a better interinstitutional balance.
All the parties and parliamentary groups have worked together to achieve a statute for the parties.
I would genuinely like, therefore, to draw the attention of the Council Presidency to the fact that it makes no sense to block such an important step, which is of constitutional value to Europe.
Your first priority, rightly, was to meet the timetable for enlargement of the European Union.
The Liberal Democrats in this House agree with you.
The draft text agreed by the Convention provides a good basis for the Constitution, and we will hold Member State governments to the commitments they have made.
The vanity of victory teaches us far less than the humiliation of defeat and Europe's failure over Iraq seems to have had some beneficial consequences, notably in driving forward European cooperation in security and defence policy.
The statement on WMD makes clear to our American friends that we are taking the threat of these weapons seriously, and offers a framework for Europe's response to Iran and North Korea.
All in all, this has been a profitable six months for the European Union, despite the huge costs of war and the difficult economic position.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, in my speech I shall concentrate on a subject which was dealt with at the European Council in Thessaloniki, a subject that has hardly been mentioned up to now, but which is one of considerable scope.
On several occasions I have called in vain for a response from the European Union to the publication, on 20 September last year, of the new strategic doctrine of the United States, which was first applied in practice in the 'pre-emptive' war against Iraq.
Nine months after Washington, therefore, the Council has just given birth to its own strategic doctrine.
Europe will exist as an essential actor on the world stage when it has the political will to use its economic clout, its political influence and its capacity for forming strong partnerships, particularly with the South, in order to help to create rules that are different from those that prevail at present, so as to achieve a globalisation with greater solidarity and greater democracy, and so as to create a peaceful world.
The document presented in Thessaloniki turns its back on such a prospect and gives us an apocalyptic description of the threats, without ever examining their causes in any depth.
The concept of fighting for security that is described therein gives precedence to the military dimension, even though this approach has proved ineffective from Kabul to Baghdad, and even in the United States itself, whose vulnerability was so tragically emphasised on 11 September 2001, despite the fact that that country alone accounts for 40% of the world's military spending.
In this context, the references in the Council document to the multilateral system have a hollow ring to them.
We can recognise, in this allusion, a call to order addressed to those member countries of the Security Council who opposed the 'material breach' argument quoted by George Bush as grounds for going to war with the backing of the UN.
For all these reasons, my group believes that the taking of this first step towards a new strategic doctrine of the European Union would be a turning point, the implications of which we would have to explain, and the dangers of which we would have to emphasise, to our fellow citizens.
But when our Heads of State or Government saw each other they were deeply moved and left the Convention's draft in peace.
This was a great success, except for the moment when it was decided to regard the Laeken mandate as fulfilled and to inform us - and I should now like to address this point, Mr President-in-Office - that Part III now only required some purely technical work.
In the first part, of course, we declare our overarching support for the principles of democracy and the rule of law, but in the third part there are still key areas where only the Council can legislate, for example on European social policy.
National parliaments lose the right to ratify international treaties without this House gaining that right.
No policy without judicial control, no law without Parliament - these are clearly not technical issues, but issues of self-determination and the definition of Europe.
The majority of the Convention wants more; the people of Europe want more.
Mr President, the Greek Government assumed presidency of the Union at a time of great international uncertainty and political instability.
The Greek Government sought to put in place in Europe a common political position on Iraq.
The international difficulties which surrounded the war in Iraq were many, but I believe that in the context of its presidency of the European Union the Greek Government dealt with this difficult political matter as even-handedly as possible.
The Greek Government has worked very closely with all the representatives on the EU Convention and this has contributed in ensuring a new draft Treaty that will pave the way for new structures within the Union.
We are all aware that the internal structures operating within the European Union must be modernised and by 1 May next we are hopefully going to be living in a Community of 25 Member States comprising a population of over 500 million people.
Decision-making procedures must change so that we can guarantee that decisions can be taken within the different EU institutions in a streamlined and structured manner.
We want to enact a new Treaty that will command the support of the people of Europe and which will oversee the smooth running of the European Union for the next 50 years.
We must recall that the European Union has been a success because the interests and concerns of both the smaller and the larger Member States are respected within the institutional structure in Europe.
In fact, the last six months have been testament to the fact that the smaller countries in Europe can run an effective and focused presidency of the European Union.
The Greek Government has supported recent peace efforts in the Middle East.
After the war in Iraq the Middle East region has become more unstable and it is incumbent on us all to ensure that we get the peace process in the Middle East back on track.
The Greek Presidency has set a good example of how a presidency should be conducted on behalf of all the Member States and others will do well to follow this example.
On a personal basis I would like to wish him some short period of relaxation in one of the many beautiful Greek islands which some of us had a opportunity of visiting in recent times, during the presidency.
Might I suggest to President Simitis that I could recommend no place better than Platy Yialos and he would know what I mean when I say that.
Mr President, the climax of the Greek Presidency was a special summit involving the new nations of the West Balkans.
The EU may have 25 Member States on 1 May of next year, and perhaps 30 in 2007 and 35 in 2010.
We must reform the EU that much more quickly in order to obtain more supple and flexible decision-making structures suited to Europe in its entirety, with very big differences between countries.
An Estonian language teacher can earn ten times as much by working in Brussels.
It is not easy to secure a proper language education in Tallinn.
One hectare of land in the Netherlands costs 30 times as much as Polish agricultural land.
The high point of the Greek Presidency was the solemn signature of the agreements to extend the EU to include ten new Member States.
That is why it is all the more absurd that the concluding summit in Haldidiki accepted the Convention's draft constitution that would remove the greater part of democracy in both the new and the present Member States.
When prime ministers can no longer be re-elected in their own countries, they can be appointed to lead us in Europe, without being answerable to the electorate.
Hold referendums on the constitution in all the countries.
Consequently it will be for the next Intergovernmental Conference to show its opposition to these reveries and these ponderous statements, in particular by deleting from the draft treaty - if there is one - the words or expressions 'constitution', 'constitutive', 'federal' - perhaps the worst one of all - 'law' or 'framework law', 'shared competences', 'subsidiarity' - a synonym for 'integration' - 'legal personality', 'reinforced cooperation', 'citizenship' and, generally speaking, anything that falls within the scope of Article 308 of the current Treaties.
Mr President, the Athens Accession Treaty signed on 16 April was a historic landmark in the history of Europe.
Since the fall of the Berlin Wall my party has been consistent and determined in its support for the enlargement of the Union, and we unreservedly welcome the positive results of the referendums that have already taken place in many of the accession states.
The presidency conclusions begin by stating that the Convention was successful in bringing our Union closer to its citizens, strengthening our Union's democratic character, enhancing our Union's ability to act as a coherent and unified force in the international system.
I fear that such warm, optimistic rhetoric is little more than that.
I hope that the governments of the Union look afresh at the results of the Convention when the Intergovernmental Conference begins its work.
Finally, I noted that the presidency adds that the accession countries will participate in the Intergovernmental Conference on an equal footing with current Member States.
I hope that means that they will be given the same voting rights as Member States.
It would be outrageous for the IGC to conclude a new constitutional structure for Europe just weeks in advance of accession and try to present this as a done deal.
Just for your information, the conclusions from Thessaloniki make it very clear that the accession states will play a full part in the Intergovernmental Conference on an equal footing, which, as you said, is ideal.
Public opinion in the European countries recognised and welcomed the contribution by the Community institutions.
The Member States, who have a very bloody history of conflict between them, no longer arm themselves against each other.
These principles now need to be consolidated between the Member States, the candidate countries and Europe and its new neighbours as a whole.
The Greek Presidency was persistent in its efforts to disseminate these principles in the new and sometimes dangerous areas of responsibility into which enlargement has led Europe.
In the same spirit, the Greek Presidency especially promoted the peace process in the Middle East.
The promotion of European pacifist positions in the Western Balkans and the summit in Thessaloniki resulted, with its decisions, in a significant turn round in relations between Europe and the Western Balkans.
With these efforts the world did not become completely safe, but we can say that, thanks to these efforts, the Greek Presidency has bequeathed a much easier or, at least, less difficult task to its successor than it would have had without the methodical, consistent and sometimes inspired work of the Greek Presidency not intervened.
The result would certainly be greatly inferior.
As far as the revision of Part III is concerned, I am prepared to turn myself into a technician, pure or not, for the final phase of the work.
We must find a sufficiently flexible form of modifying the Constitutional settlement if we are to be able to move with the changing circumstances we will face in the years to come.
Mr President, unfortunately, as we predicted at the beginning of the Greek Presidency, decisions were taken during the past six months of the Greek Presidency which reinforce the anti-grass roots, reactionary and aggressive character of the European Union.
The increase in the retirement age, the reduction in pensions, the privatisation of social security and the extension of part-time and temporary employment were promoted.
The mid-term review of the CAP was approved, reducing and uncoupling subsidies from production, with disastrous consequences for small and medium-sized farmers, quality and the environment.
Mr Simitis and his friends are proud of all this.
Mr President, as a member of the Convention I noticed that very early on it became a commonplace - at least certain governments tried to make it so - that the six-monthly rotation of the presidency of the Council leads to inefficiency, a loss of momentum, a loss of direction and, sotto voce, that if too many small countries have the presidency it will not work.
It has been the case during the last five years that the small-country presidencies have proved to be models of how this system can work.
The presidency of the Council will have no constitutional powers.
The Council is denied any power of legislating.
It is worth saying that the text of the Convention was not a consensual one and nor could it have been.
A good starting point, it is true, but no more than that.
Mr President, I would like to outline two final points.
The first is to note that, if the solution favoured by the Convention for the future of the Presidency of the European Council goes ahead, the Greek Presidency will remain inextricably linked to the beginning of the end of the excellent democratic practice, carried out every six months here in the European Parliament, of assessing the work of the Presidencies.
This draft constitution, which seeks to smother individual states, is, in my opinion, incompatible with democratic expression.
This draft constitution, drawn up by an unrepresentative Convention, has no legal value and even less added value for our citizens.
I hope that the final text will enable the national parliaments to control subsidiarity effectively so that Europe no longer has a say in everything.
Mr President, the Thessaloniki Council stated in its conclusions that the draft European Constitution prepared by the Convention was a good starting point for the Intergovernmental Conference which will be opening this coming October.
The Intergovernmental Conference, which will have more than six months ahead of it before 1 May 2004, will have to work in three directions, and I am speaking here both to the incoming Italian Presidency and to the Greek Presidency.
If the truth were told, this unbalanced text is sliding towards a predominantly supranational system, a super-state which will cut Europe off from its peoples even more.
Secondly, it will be necessary to carry out a serious review of Part III, which the Convention has not even looked at yet, and which it will only be able to correct, before 15 July, on its technical aspects alone.
For example, it is impossible to leave as it is the section concerning agriculture, because in no way does it mention our current objectives, namely the preservation of our model, self-sufficiency in food, food safety and nature conservation - all objectives which can only be achieved by multi-functional, and preferably regional, agriculture.
Finally, it will be necessary to rewrite the preamble, because it contains two vital omissions.
Therefore on two essential points, nation and Christianity, the current preamble refrains from mentioning what constitutes the very essence of Europe.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are here to criticise the work of the Presidency of the Council constructively, honestly and in good faith on the basis of your report.
As you have heard from the honourable Members' interventions - and the interventions which do not come from the same political family are more valuable - there is generally a feeling that the Greek Presidency was a great success.
I think that the Greek Presidency took the best possible reaction to the division which the European Union underwent in relation to this issue in convening the Extraordinary European Council in Brussels on 17 February 2003 and with the outcome of that Council.
Secondly: the invasion of Iraq has been followed by military occupation, with the logic behind a military occupation, men in balaclavas, police spies and so on.
Fourthly and lastly, the matter of the Constitutional Treaty really did progress, but with opaque and, in my opinion, very dangerous procedures, which may even change the essence of everything the Convention has done.
We particularly welcome the statement in Paragraph 2 that 'weapons of mass destruction and missile proliferation puts at risk the security of our states, our peoples and our interests around the world'.
However, I regret that meeting this challenge is only taken up in terms of European Union external action.
Turning to other questions, my group certainly welcomes the efforts made by the Greek Presidency on the question of temporary agency work, currently blocked through more political game-playing by particular Member States.
The Council really needs to start questioning whether Lisbon is working as well as people think it is in terms of the provision of high-quality jobs and the social cohesion which was sought at Lisbon.
In one of those areas we need to look at the relationship between that and the World Trade Organisation agreements and proposals we are currently following, and to see whether we will be able to safeguard social and environmental rights within the European Union and encourage and support such development in poorer countries under the current regime.
Mr President, the conclusions of the Thessaloniki Summit relating to immigration represent an encouraging milestone insofar as major decisions are made with regard to the management of external borders and the policy on the return of illegal migrants, not least in terms of the European Union's financial undertaking.
We will also see, however, that this presidency saw a great failure on the part of Europe - not that the Greek Presidency is responsible for this; we all are - namely the inability of us Europeans to have a common position on an issue of war and peace.
This is also true of the discussions on a strategic concept for the European Union that have been taking place and will continue in Thessaloniki, so that we are better prepared in terms of content in the future and have our own system for weighing up interests, from which a better operational policy will emerge at Community level in the future.
The idea that in the future one country would be able to block 25 others on an issue of foreign policy, with no way out, is a painful one, and there is the risk of an opportunity being missed.
The Convention has not yet debated Parts III and IV.
Mr President, I am going to refer to the Thessaloniki agenda in relation to immigration and asylum.
Seriously, I believe that the Council has returned to a more global and balanced vision of immigration, reducing the decibels of its declarations, but in a more measured way increasing the intensity of the measures adopted.
We should use a little imagination so that, in a world such as ours, in which everything has the potential to move within a global framework, the movement of people can become a virtuous circle, generating a little wealth for third countries, for our neighbours and for us.
Furthermore, Mr President, please allow me to end by congratulating you on having accepted, for the first time, the need for a European integration policy and on having correctly identified its objectives and the need to implement them with local and regional authorities and social actors.
Finally, the accession signing ceremony took place at the foot of the Acropolis where the new Parthenon museum is also located.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I should like, first of all, to thank the Greek Presidency once again for the quality of its collaboration, and congratulate it on the work it has accomplished during a particularly eventful and difficult six months.
The IGC must therefore improve the draft Convention on these points, so that what is being called the new Treaty of Rome really does open the door to a European Europe, a social Europe and a Europe of citizens.
Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council has discussed various aspects of the process of the EU's enlargement, and these were also addressed in Thessaloniki.
In the past, we most definitely did not want to set down any dates for the start of negotiations, the end of negotiations or for accession to the European Union.
With regard to Romania and Bulgaria, our resolution was reported to state initially that we appreciate it that those countries have set themselves a target date, namely 2004.
Will, for example, Romania be a country that functions normally by 2007, or will it still be weighed down by corruption and political power-play that overlook the interests of the general public?
The economic political problems of the new accession states have also grown and meanwhile, it seems as if the Council and Commission have become more lenient.
Unfortunately, a date has also been set for the start of negotiations while no conditions have been laid down for this.
This strikes me as extremely important, provided this does not simply look into the extent to which the current situation at the start of the negotiations about other chapters can be maintained as much as possible.
The Balladur initiative on borders and good neighbourliness are, in fact, the basis for Copenhagen's political conditions.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the Greek Presidency of the Council on what it has achieved in its six months, in a difficult situation: on Iraq - as we have heard - and also on specific dossiers like the European Statute for Political Parties, where a lot of hard work was put in.
The ministers will know that I do not say this just out of politeness because I have also voiced friendly criticism of some aspects of the Greek legal system.
I congratulate the presidency on getting the form of words agreed in Thessaloniki - that the constitution will be the basis for the negotiation of a new treaty in the IGC.
The Convention has not quite finished its work.
Part III, at least, is going to be subject to a technical revision: such technicalities as how to vote in the Council, the technique of voting by QMV or unanimity.
But once we have a completed result from the Convention the battle then moves on to getting it intact through the IGC.
I welcome the reference in the conclusions of Thessaloniki to the participation of Parliament in the IGC.
The details still need to be spelt out but we now have an acquis from the Amsterdam and Nice negotiations that the European Parliament participates via its President in the meetings at the level of ministers and via two representatives at the level of the working group that does the negotiating.
That at the very least should be the basis on which Parliament participates in this IGC.
I would like to believe that, taking account of the views of the Commission and the European Parliament, as well as the decisions by the Greek courts, the Greek Government will set a good example in this basic sector, which concerns tens of thousands of workers and in which fixed-term contracts are being abused.
There are still people who sign unilateral fixed-term contracts for 15 years.
For us enlargement already has a human face, in the shape of the colleagues who are already working here as observers.
As an aside, I should like to mention that we in Germany were interested to note that after Parliament's decision on enlargement the Czech Government for example issued a statement on the injustice of expulsion, which is along the right lines and gives us hope that here too the process of reconciliation may reach a successful conclusion.
I hope that it will still succeed in doing so before 10 July of this year.
Indeed, the draft Constitution, whose preparation Greece showed it could oversee so clearheadedly, makes a decisive contribution to European history.
After a period of national constitutionalism, we are now witnessing a period of European constitutionalism.
When confronted with the storm over Iraq, the war in Iraq, moreover, Greece showed it could remain upright and clearheaded, and could once again point to the way forward, which took the form of an independent European defence policy and identity, still within the framework of the Atlantic Alliance.
Greece showed it could also contribute to that process of enlargement by proposing that the western Balkans join the European Union in the long term.
Just one reservation: the CAP, which perpetuates serious inequalities in the distribution of resources between farmers and countries.
Lastly, the Greek Presidency showed it could reconcile the world of Platonic ideas with Aristotelian realism.
The spirit of Europe today is the spirit of Greece, and the spirit of Greece is the spirit of Europe.
You have dealt with a number of very heavy dossiers, and the finalisation of the accession dossiers on the Acropolis on 16 June gave us a stunning picture, also for those who were only able to follow the proceedings on television.
It was, of course, coincidental that these dossiers happened to be finalised during the Greek Presidency, but it was a very happy coincidence.
The Convention's work has also been guided in a very positive manner.
The MEPs and members of the national parliaments worked together much more effectively than some government representatives.
If we manage to do this during the coming six months under the Italian Presidency, then Europe will have taken another big step and we will have a bright future ahead of us with those 25 countries.
First, Greece had the misfortune, but Europe had the fortune, that the Greek Presidency coincided with the huge moral - without doubt moral - crisis which the European Union underwent in the consciousness of the European citizens with the stance taken by certain of its members on the illegal war against Iraq.
The Greek Presidency managed not only to prevent it from breaking up, but also to express the European Union with a word of consent, which will certainly withstand the criticism of tomorrow's historians.
The second major historic event during the Greek Presidency was the positive decision on the Constitutional Treaty submitted to the European Council in Halkidiki by the Convention through its chairman.
Finally, I would refer to the likewise historic fact that, after seven years of being unable to take a decision, common positions were found with the European Parliament so that the regulation on the operation and funding of political parties could finally enter into force.
After this presidency we will clearly have to explain to the public what additional benefit Europe is supposed to derive from the creation of a new post such as that of Council President, a president appointed from the ranks of the Council.
Obviously the Convention, which has already been mentioned here several times, has resulted in a compromise and the Intergovernmental Conference, too, will ultimately result in a compromise.
There is however still the issue - which the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, mentioned - of the dual presidency of the European Union.
I can certainly understand that, when faced with an EU of 25 or more Member States, some may long for the times when there was a Community of six.
But artificially scaling down the European Union by dividing it into a core Europe and the rest undermines the European Union's cohesion and also public trust in the European institutions.
It also seems to me, in any case, that Greece is a large European country.
I would also like to say that I welcome the decision taken at Thessaloniki on the five Balkan States.
I believe that this was a most historic day in the creation of this greater Europe, the source of democracy, peace and stability, towards which we are all working.
With regard to the Convention, I should like, Mr President, to say two things to you.
The first is that it seems to me that there is an unidentified objective in this draft constitution, and that is the fourth part.
The Convention has not really discussed it, and I am afraid that there is a broad consensus within the IGC that nothing should be said about it.
In any case, it seems to me that, according to the Laeken mandate, these issues also fall within the competence of the Convention.
The third point concerns Parliament's involvement.
Lack of transparency, silence and the strategy of evasion cannot be the way in which the IGC operates.
Consequently, Mr President, I would ask you when and how all these elements will be explained in detail, because they are elements which are vital to the working method of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Much has been achieved in many areas, but the Presidency of the Council will, of course, be best remembered for the kick-off of the final decision on the constitutional treaty.
The future entails not only a more peaceful Europe but also a more democratic one.
You also listened constructively to Parliament's points of view on the employment guidelines.
I also want to commend you for the pensions strategy put forward during your Presidency, which I believe strikes a sound balance between economic and social aspects.
That is important now that we have to review our pensions systems throughout Europe.
At the same time, I regret, however, that we have still not obtained a common asylum and refugee policy with common minimum rules.
The Greek Presidency has succeeded in combining the major themes, already widely addressed - such as enlargement, supporting the Convention and establishing a very balanced, wise position in foreign policy - with everyday issues which are important for the citizens of Europe.
We have made progress in financial dossiers, closed the energy dossier and implemented and extended major programmes such as Erasmus and eLearning: I therefore endorse your work.
I am fully aware of the macroeconomic situation; I am fully aware of the need for the European Union to adopt a clear foreign policy with regard to the developing countries too.
Nevertheless, the conclusion of the agriculture package last week is causing me some concern, for, in actual fact, we have instigated a process of dismantling our continent's primary sector and we have, in reality, started to destroy the one genuine policy which has allowed the European Union to claim the title of Union thus far.
In other words, we ask farmers for investment and commitments to safeguard the quality of foodstuffs and then we dismantle the various measures protecting the sector: this is a policy which I really cannot understand.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Financial Services Action Plan has been fast-tracked, the accession treaties signed - bringing the reunification of Europe one step closer - the Balkan Initiative launched and the first two parts of the draft constitution presented.
Acting as a Community means not having a national veto with the system of unanimity, but having greater public participation with qualified double majorities.
The internal market will become a domestic market for 25 only when they all have the euro as their currency and Parliament is given a right to codecision on tax issues that are relevant to the internal market.
I should like to say something about the Balkans and south-eastern Europe.
This involves, for example, opening up education and youth programmes to the young people of these countries, which sends out an extremely important signal to them.
It also involves annual reports on progress in the individual States, and the reinforcement of the twinning programme so as to modernise the administrative structures in these countries and make them ready for the accession that they have, of course, been promised.
We expect there to be more cooperation in the region, particularly between Greece and Italy and these countries, on human trafficking and cross-border crime.
We also hope that you will perhaps consider, together with your colleagues in the Council and the Commission, easing the visa requirements in a number of fields and for particular professions, so that people are able to gain faster entry to the European Union.
I think that the Council and the Commission need to step up the pressure on the Albanians in Kosovo in this regard.
We did not wage a war to have a situation today that is not wholly dissimilar to the unpleasant state of affairs that we have seen there over the last ten years.
The United States have set out their security policy in clear terms, and it guides their actions on a day-to-day basis.
If we take a closer look at it, we see that when it comes to analysing new threats in the world, joint statements are made that are extremely detailed and also completely accurate.
That is why this paper can only be a beginning, a beginning with important statements.
Nevertheless, we need a broad debate about this in the European Union, including in Parliament, so as to gradually formulate a common security strategy.
Above all, however, we need a step-by-step plan.
Our job now is to formulate a more precise strategy of this kind for the European Union.
Your many, very many positive criticisms fill all of us who participated in the Greek Presidency with great joy.
The first core issue to which you referred was the issue of the new Constitutional Treaty and the Convention.
Ladies and gentlemen, as President-in-Office of the European Union, I visited the 24 Member States for the first time in order to prepare the summit in Halkidiki and to help so that the Constitutional Convention could finish its work.
However, I found that there are significant differences, not only social and political differences, of course, which were visible and known, but also as regards the perception of the issues of the European Union, the progress of Europe and European cooperation.
I do not believe that we can find a solution to European issues unless we take account of these differences and try to find compromises.
The new Member States in central Europe are living with the past, a past of repression by the Soviet Union.
They are living with the fear of similar developments, they want to pay great attention to relations between the European Union and Russia, they set particular store by security issues, cooperation and participation in ????.
We also know that the old countries in the European Union now have a different perspective, because they have seen that the European Union has overcome these problems.
Besides, we cannot achieve the objectives we would like right from the start, the objectives, for example, of a Union which operates to a federal standard, with advanced central policies, a Union which has a uniform foreign policy without difficulties on all the issues etc.
On the basis of these conclusions, I want to repeat that the compromise contained in the Convention's text is a good compromise.
A good compromise, a good basis for further discussions, which will take place at the Intergovernmental Conference.
The issues of the Intergovernmental Conference will be resolved by the Italian Presidency, which will convene it, as agreed in Halkidiki, during October.
As we remember, the European Council decided that the work of the Convention should be completed by June and it insisted on this, as did the summit in March and the extraordinary informal summit held in Athens for that reason.
We therefore said in Halkidiki that, as there is this decision, the Convention should not continue its work by changing this text or this compromise which was presented.
Having said which, the Convention will, of course, have to decide what this harmonisation work will be, but the Council was clear that it does not want to reverse this arrangement or the compromise reached.
So I think that good work was done and the Intergovernmental Conference will be able to finish according to the timetable.
The three Scandinavian countries and numerous countries of central Europe stated that, for constitutional reasons, they would not agree under any circumstances to this sort of guard and that this sort of guard is not possible.
As far as the distribution of the burden between the Member States is concerned, it exists.
The common programmes help those countries or the areas in which there is a problem, or those countries which have some special need to address the overall problem.
Similarly, as far as readmission agreements are concerned, I would like to point out, because it was said that Turkey has a readmission agreement with the Union, that it has no readmission agreement with the Union, which is why we said that the Union needs to conclude readmission agreements.
I agree with all those who pointed out that this policy must also continue under the Italian Presidency, because we have taken a step, I believe an important step, but more needs to be done both on asylum and on immigration to complete that step.
And these dangers arise from weapons of mass destruction, because modern technology allows weapons of mass destruction to be manufactured without the technical means needed in the past.
Therefore, such weapons can also be made in other countries and prevention is needed.
Prevention for immigration was also what was said, financing for other countries.
Prevention of terrorism is monitoring these developments, controlling trade, signing agreements governing the provision of information.
Mr Papayannakis said that there is continuity on major problems.
But, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, if there is to be a follow-up, we need to talk creatively.
We wanted to create a stronger Europe and we followed up the Lisbon policies so that there would, for example, be a stronger Europe in the social and economic sector.
We wanted the cohesion of Europe, hence our policy on Iraq.
We wanted to make Europe a world power, hence our policy for the Middle East, our policy with Russia, the USA, Japan and Canada.
When, as in the discussion with the United States, I point out that well over half of transactions with Russia and other countries are now carried out in euros - for the euro is a driving force, it can only go on to be used in sectors currently outside its scope such as energy or other sectors because we are being carried that way by the momentum - then Europe is heeded, then Europe is a genuine political entity and not only an economic entity, even though we are talking about purely economic matters.
Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to inform the House that our dear friend and former colleague, Pier Ferdinando Casini, who is now President of the Italian Camera dei Deputati, is in the official gallery.
Mr Frans Weisglas, President of the Dutch Upper House, is also in the official gallery.
He used to chair a small committee of this Parliament, in which I sat, which had as its sole motivation the achievement of the rights of this Parliament to decide where it sits.
I have always supported Strasbourg and have never voted against sitting here.
If Air France cannot get its act together and get Members of the European Parliament to Strasbourg, then we have to decide for ourselves that we meet in Brussels.
I am asking Air France to get its act together and the President of Parliament again to appeal to Air France, to appeal to the President of France, and say that, unless something is done, every single Member of the European Parliament will be against meeting in Strasbourg.
It is just not acceptable to spend at least 12 hours travelling here and miss a whole day's work. (Loud applause) Mr President, I understand the frustration of my colleagues.
It arises from the fact that we are legally obliged to meet in Strasbourg 12 times a year.
The only way to change that is by a new unanimous decision of the Heads of Government.
I would draw particular attention to my own one, which envisages compensation for Strasbourg, because we are not going to get Parliament's sittings to Brussels without compensating Strasbourg.
I think it should be the Heads of Government and the European Council who should travel to Strasbourg four times a year and have their meetings here.
I have the impression that, in this impromptu debate which you are organising, Mr President, we are mixing everything up.
I condemn this method of proceeding, and I only wish that, in this House, we were capable of mobilising our forces with the same determination and the same willingness on subjects of obvious interest to our citizens, for example tax harmonisation or the defining of minimum social conditions.
Mr President, speaking as a French MEP who has defended Strasbourg, I must say that Mr McMillan-Scott raises a real problem.
It is clear that the solution to that problem cannot, in my opinion, be to relocate everything to Brussels, thereby transforming Brussels into a sort of federal district of the European Union.
I think that, in mentioning this incident, which could have arisen just as well in the case of Brussels, and has indeed done so on some occasions - and I can confirm that, as have several other Members - our British friends have nevertheless raised a real issue which could be the subject of a complaint by the authorities of this House to the French authorities.
Having said that, the eminently symbolic nature of Strasbourg in the construction of Europe, its central position and the importance of not concentrating all the authorities of the European Union in Brussels, argue in favour of respecting the Treaties and retaining the city of Strasbourg as the venue for Parliament's sittings.
I would like to see an end to this stupid notion that the institution can of itself determine the place where it carries out its work.
Reason dictates that I should agree with the proposal to codify and simplify the relevant legislation.
It is a fact that these schemes, both the LUCAS Project (Land Use/Cover Area Frame Statistical Survey) and the MARS Project (Monitoring Agriculture with Remote Sensing), have contributed to a better understanding of areas and crops in the Community.
The European Parliament must resolutely take the lead in upholding the right of freedom of speech.
Freedom of speech applies a priori to the representatives of the people.
Moreover, parliamentary immunity should be interpreted as broadly as possible, because MPs are not only active in an assembly, but also in the political arena in a broad sense, such as meetings, debates and any possible political and electoral communication.
The MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece condemn Mr Camre's views, but we vigorously defend freedom of expression and everyone's right to state their opinion freely, even if we radically disagree with it.
It is possible to hold many opinions, both for and against the racism paragraph and freedom of expression.
Indeed, we would also extradite our citizens for prosecution in the United States, where the use of the death penalty cannot be ruled out.
Mr Camre is risking neither his life nor his freedom in a matter concerning racist statements.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this draft regulation seeks to guarantee a high level of protection for human life and health, animal health and welfare and the interests of the environment and consumers in connection with genetically modified food and feed.
Turning to labelling, I am very pleased that the consumer-friendly system of labelling genetically modified food and feed has been accepted.
As you will remember, at this time last year we had a very controversial and also very emotional debate in this House.
I have been able - and as rapporteur this does of course make me very proud - even in the face of opposition from the largest group in this House, that of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to gain acceptance for a very consumer-friendly system.
I should simply like to remind you once more that we know from numerous studies and surveys that a majority of European consumers want to know when foods contain genetically modified ingredients.
In its first reading, Parliament set it at 0.5%, and the Council is now proposing 0.9%.
The compromise on the table, with which I am very happy, and which nearly all of the groups in this House support and which has also been endorsed by the other European institutions, is very good in my view.
Through this compromise we give the Member States the possibility of taking appropriate measures to guarantee coexistence and thus also freedom of choice for consumers in the future.
I should like to take a few more seconds to thank Members from the other groups for their fruitful cooperation. . (EL) Madam President, the two regulations we are debating today add to a series of Community legislative acts on genetically modified organisms relating not only to the restricted use, but also to the deliberate release of GMOs into the environment, new foodstuffs and new ingredients and compulsory information on soya seed and genetically modified corn labels.
The Council's common position reinforces the proposal for a regulation for which I am acting as rapporteur in connection with the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and products and the traceability of foods and feed, the European Parliament's amendment to Directive 2001/18 and the Commission proposal, particularly those provisions designed to ensure the regulation is implemented more efficiently.
Consequently, I think that the fast adoption of this regulation without proceeding to the conciliation procedure with the Council is what we are asking for.
If the Council and the Commission accept just certain amendments which, I would say, make traceability and labelling requirements for genetically modified organisms slightly stricter, it will be possible to introduce rules at European level.
Finally, I think the added amendment concerning the creation of a register for the publication of technical guidelines on sampling and testing for the methods is useful, because this both reinforces transparency and helps to achieve a coordinated approach and efficient implementation of the regulation.
This will result in the lifting of the de facto moratorium on the approval of new GMOs and prevent a trade war with the USA, Canada, Argentina, Egypt and other countries.
The problem of being unable to keep up with the speed of developments in biotechnology was what basically resulted in reservations and I think that it is time the European Union moved in a positive way towards this technology.
That is the intention of these two regulations, so as to give consumers the chance to be informed and the European Union the chance to make progress at last in this technology compared with its competitors.
Allow me to draw your attention to the three principal elements of the proposal.
First, it will ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health on the basis of a streamlined, efficient and more transparent authorisation procedure.
Animal feed produced from GMOs will, in future, be subject to authorisation.
The simplified procedure based on substantial equivalence will be abandoned and authorisations will be limited to a period of 10 years.
The public will have the opportunity to make comments prior to decisions and to the authorisation of products.
I would like to thank the rapporteur and also the shadow rapporteurs for their hard work towards arriving at this compromise package and for their willingness to ensure a balanced result as well as a timely resolution of the outstanding issues.
The compromise package includes provisions concerning the issue of coexistence between different forms of agriculture.
However, the Commission is prepared to support the compromise package and - as outlined in the package - to develop guidelines on appropriate measures to be taken at national level.
As policy-makers and legislators we have a clear responsibility to provide a high level of safety for European citizens and to enable them to exercise choice.
The European Union has been building a system that allows us to base decisions on whether or not to authorise the use and release of GM products on the best available scientific and technical advice.
The two proposals now being considered in second reading are important parts of the overall design of our system for dealing responsibly with GM products.
They have been fully debated inside all the political groups and different committees.
I hope that Parliament and the Council will be able to agree on the amendments to be adopted later in plenary, so that we can reach agreement on both food and feed and traceability in labelling in this part-session.
This proposal will provide an important complement to the existing regulatory framework.
You will all be aware of the difficult negotiations leading up to the adoption of the common position.
The gap between the different positions has narrowed, as many of the amendments adopted at first reading were introduced in the common position.
This, linked with the forthcoming initiative from the Commission on guidelines for coexistence will provide Member States with the possibility of implementing appropriate measures to deal with coexistence.
Conversely, Amendment Nos 22, 23, 25, and 28 seek to introduce texts on coexistence that are identical to that which would be laid down in Directive 2001/18/EC and the regulation on GM food and feed.
In addition, the first part of Amendment No 15 seeks to reinstate national provisions for traceability under Directive 2001/18/EC.
Amendment No 7 refers to the 'may contain' clause for food and feed products in the original Commission proposal.
This was also the subject of a very difficult debate and to reopen it now would have serious consequences for the operability of our system and the forthcoming WTO Panel.
Amendment No 6, which refers to the definition of the placing on the market, was also subject to considerable debate in the Council, following adoption of the same amendment at first reading.
The wording of this amendment was included in the common position via reference to the full definition of placing on the market from Directive 2001/18/EC.
Amendment Nos 5 and 29 refer to the precautionary principle.
I would point out that the Council addressed this amendment in the common position as supported by the Commission.
The second parts of Amendment Nos 8 and 13 seek to extend the time-period for the holding of traceability information from five years to ten years.
Even if traceability were still possible after ten years this information would be of no practical value.
Amendment No 20 addresses the reporting obligations of the Commission, which are duplicated in Amendment No 3.
However, the text of Amendment No 16 is not in line with that proposed for this new Article under the political agreement for the proposal on GM food and feed and therefore we cannot accept it.
Finally, Amendment No 21 refers to the date of application of the regulation.
Of course the Commission will make sure that this system is accounted for in terms of new authorisations as required under Directive 2001/18/EC.
With some difficulty we have put together a system which will offer security and choice to our citizens.
Moreover we are facing complaints before the WTO from countries that wish to export genetically modified products to the EU, but may not do so because of the moratorium.
In 2001 the EU imported over 16 million tonnes of soya from the USA and South America: in the USA the proportion of the total soya crop that is GM is 68%; in Argentina it is 100%.
Through these draft regulations we need to secure freedom of choice for consumers, and my group as much as any other, Mrs Scheele, is in favour of protecting human health and therefore also in favour of robust consumer protection.
But with this legislation we also need to cater for agriculture, the environment, small and medium-sized seed producers, industry, the retail food trade and many other branches of industry.
It is a great success, particularly for our group, that all of the other groups are now supporting the Council's common position on the limit values: 0.9% for authorised GMOs and 0.5% for GMOs that are ready for authorisation and in a backlog because of the moratorium.
The Commission is now under an obligation to ensure that the de facto moratorium is not artificially prolonged by some Member States.
It has, I know, in large part been an uphill struggle, with a Council and a large number of Members of this Parliament not having been interested in what might be regarded as the ideal legislation.
Firstly, I think that the limit value for labelling in the case of adventitious pollution by GMOs is still too high and, secondly, we are coming, over a period, also to accept adventitious pollution by non-authorised and unlabelled GMOs.
If we are not very careful, we are in danger of actually destroying the basis of ecological production and of general agricultural production throughout Europe.
Madam President, this issue divides our Member States as it does people across the world, sometimes with an intensity comparable to religious conviction.
A common framework of policies is needed if we are to avoid the risk of a trade war with the United States, with appeals to the WTO, and to curb the risk of divisions amongst ourselves across the European Union.
We also all know that the majority of consumers do not want genetically modified food or the large-scale cultivation of genetically modified crops.
Nor is there any getting away from the fact that there is a link between the de facto moratorium and these proposals concerning labelling and traceability.
There are quite clear power relations between large and multinational businesses in these industries and the farmers in various countries affected by this technology.
Now, it is, however, a question of labelling and traceability.
What is quite clear is that the European Parliament's proposals will improve these legislative proposals.
Our group would like, however, to go still further.
We are therefore going to vote in favour of the amendments by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, designed to prune the threshold values for authorised GMOs back to 0.5%.
It might be wondered whether these new rules are sufficient to justify lifting the moratorium.
The rules need to be implemented in the Member States.
Clear rules on co-existence are required, and rules are also required concerning environmental liability in relation to genetically modified crops.
In that context, the relationship with the United States is also used as an argument, but we can never satisfy the United States in this area.
Our task is to embrace a more responsible position, both globally and in the European Union.
When, as was the case in Germany, 90% of all genetically manipulated soya products were not labelled, this was tantamount to saying that consumers were incapable of making their own decisions.
The products of gene technology must be transparent from the field to the fork.
If the Commission lifts the moratorium under pressure from the USA, labelling will enable consumers to respond with a moratorium on purchases.
We will move from a political moratorium to a practical moratorium on purchases imposed by consumers.
The litmus test for the genetic engineering industry is not authorisation but sales.
Genetically manipulated products will have to maintain their hold on the market.
They also know that more than 90% of consumers reject genetically manipulated food.
Our expectations here are quite clear: that the Commission should implement this zero detection limit value for seed, because we know that it is possible to have seed with a zero limit value as it is already on the market in Austria and other countries.
We also know that these countries are certainly in no position to buy expensive seed from the US genetic engineering industry.
I therefore hope that tomorrow will indeed mark a milestone for consumers and that consumers will indeed respond to the lifting of the moratorium with a moratorium on purchases.
The regulations on GMOs ought to be a major advance in terms of bio-security, freedom of choice and freedom of information for consumers.
The most critical point is still the thresholds for the presence of GMOs permitted when such a presence is technically unavoidable.
As for unauthorised GMOs, how can the Council make them legal in the food chain by proposing a threshold of 0.5% when these are GMOs that are prohibited in the EU?
The Commission has shifted responsibility onto the Member States, while reserving for itself the right to draw up, at a later date, guidelines on the coexistence of conventional and genetically modified crops.
It is also necessary, in my opinion, to exclude seeds from the regulation, by making a distinction between living GMOs that should fall within the scope of Directive 2001/18/CE, thereby making their traceability compulsory, and genetically modified foods.
Finally, I am fully in support of maintaining the European moratorium despite the complaint that the United States has submitted to the WTO.
Secondly, GMOs pose two major risks.
The second risk concerns the environment: this is the risk that undesirable genes will be spread to the wild flora and to the rhizosphere.
For farmers, the benefits are slight: a few savings in relation to seed preparation, treatments and weed control, but at the cost of increased dependence on seed companies and the manufacturers of crop protection products.
For developing countries the benefits are only theoretical, because the companies in question have been working only for markets that are solvent, which means that we cannot accept the American criticism of European countries on this point.
We should explore both the potential and the risks of transgenesis, even though this technology is extremely costly and appears better suited to crops grown on a very large scale with very little diversity, which are not a feature of European farming, or at least of European farming before the Fischler plan.
Madam President, Mr Byrne reminded us just now about the fact that we are meeting today after two years of emotional and controversial work on this important issue of GMOs, an issue on which Parliament needs to decide without delay.
This means that we shall have to adopt strict rules governing authorisation and control procedures - which means that the scientific criteria for authorisation must be harmonised at European level - and there must be total traceability of products in order to guarantee the safety of animal feeds and foods for human consumption.
Labelling must be clear and legible, so as to allow consumers to be free to make the right choices.
Consumers must be able to be certain that all the GMOs that are present in the products that they buy will have been strictly evaluated from the point of view of safety.
These texts propose lifting the moratorium.
If we do not lift it, we run the risk of holding back research in Europe yet again, and of causing our best research scientists to leave and go to the United States or Asia.
Last year, about 60 million hectares outside Europe were growing genetically improved crops.
I shall be voting in favour of the compromise negotiated with the Council, even though the compromise is too timid.
This is why we should welcome the imminent entry into force of these European rules concerning the labelling and traceability of GMOs.
Madam President, in approving proposals on traceability limits for genetically modified organisms in raw materials, all we are doing is to open the floodgates to the gradual but constant release and movement of genetically modified food and feed.
The arrangement setting upper permissible contamination limits creates a de facto situation with which we radically disagree, first because it shifts the responsibility to the consumer, who is not, however, in a position to evaluate the risks inherent in food produced from or containing GMOs and, secondly, because it paves the way for the suffocating dependence of farmers on the mainly American multinational biotechnology companies, which have sole rights to produce and sell genetically modified seed and the agrochemicals that accompany them.
The labelling of all genetically modified food and animal feed will give consumers in Europe what 93% of them are asking for: the choice of whether or not to buy GM products.
It is not complete choice, because of the threshold levels for authorised - and temporarily for unauthorised - GMOs if their presence is adventitious or technically unavoidable.
These levels are too high, but they can be reviewed in the light of developments in technology.
The political system has abandoned all responsibility.
Madam President, Commissioner, with these two reports by Mr Trakatellis and Mrs Scheele, we are once again looking at GMOs, but through the wrong end of the telescope.
While all this is going on, who is looking at GMOs in Washington?
Then there is Donald Rumsfeld, US Secretary of Defence, the President of a laboratory that Monsanto bought in 1985.
There is Ann Vaneman, US Secretary of Agriculture, a member of the Board of Directors of Calgene, the multinational which created Flower, the first transgenic tomato.
There is also Linda Fisher, Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, formerly responsible for the Monsanto lobbying bureau in Washington, and finally there is Clarence Thomas, a judge of the US Supreme Court, who was nominated to his position by Bush Senior and who used to be a lawyer at Monsanto.
It means that the Bush administration is treating the GMO issue as a matter of sovereignty, in economic, industrial, scientific and agrifood terms.
In the Gulf of Mexico, at Cancun, on 14 September, if it says no it will be an agricultural and tropical Munich, but then Europe is female and loves to be dominated.
I, along with the majority of the British Conservative MEPs and the majority of members of my group, see genetic modification as an interesting and potentially very useful development for mankind and for our environment.
Genetic modification of plants and seeds holds out the possibility of better food production in harsh climates and of assuring future food supplies to a fast-growing world population.
We have repeatedly said that it will take a package of measures to assemble a reasonable body of legislation in the European Union.
They should be able to exercise their right to choose.
Then we will also have the security in the European Union of being able to say to the Americans and all of the others: yes, you can produce and export to the European Union, but on our conditions and in accordance with our legislation!
We owe this to the people of the European Union; that is our job as their elected representatives.
The second problem is that this is about political labelling which goes much further than information of potential relevance to public health.
Madam President, the frantic lobbying by the seed companies in order to convince Members to reject the amendments adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy was enough to make us vote in favour of those amendments, despite the limitations of the texts concerned.
We are in favour of maximum traceability and labelling for GMOs intended for human and animal consumption, so that consumers can make judgments and choices.
I shall also take this opportunity to protest about the imprisonment, in France, of José Bové.
At least José Bové has the merit of having fuelled suspicion with regard to the use that can be made of GMOs.
He must be released.
The most positive aspect of this compromise is that it allows Member States to adopt any measures they wish in order to prevent the contamination of traditional and organic crops by GMOs.
I am also pleased that the Commission will be tabling a proposal shortly in which it will indicate how GMO farming, organic farming and traditional farming can continue to exist side by side.
I am not at all happy with the rules that have been laid down, not only in the Environment Council and in the Agriculture Council, but also in our own group.
Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, according to a recent poll conducted by Eurobarometer, over 70% of Europeans do not want to eat GMOs.
There was, therefore, a need to provide European consumers with a response, by adopting legislation on labelling, which should enable everyone to choose what they eat.
Perhaps we already know that coexistence is impossible, that we can regulate neither the flight of the bumblebees nor the direction or strength of the wind and that planting GMOs is irreversible?
If this is the case, we are taking a considerable risk for Europeans, because we cannot make the issue of GMOs solely one of consumer choice, turning a blind eye to public health and environmental problems.
Everyone is well aware that what still counts the most in this field is economic and financial interests and that the EU's agricultural and environmental future will be shaped by pressure from the United States and from WTO negotiations.
I have the feeling that all of these debates and our votes tomorrow are preparing us for agreeing to raise the moratorium without too much argument.
Madam President, the proposals in the Scheele report, together with the Trakatellis report, mean that consumers do not have to use GMOs.
We are still waiting for effective criteria for co-existence in the field and also for the environmental liability system that the Commission promised us during the negotiations about Directive 2001/18/EC two years ago.
This is exclusively the responsibility of Europe's own parliamentarians, both here and in the national parliaments.
The threshold is far too high, since a lower one could be achieved.
If the labelling of these products results only in their being rejected, we will certainly not be able to catch up on the rest of the world.
When it comes to drawing up guidelines - and I can tell the Commission that I am agog to see what will happen when they do - there will be a lot of hard work to be done; it will not be easy, and I hope it does not turn out to be a bureaucratic monster.
In practical terms that means that an organic readymeal could contain minor ingredients like herbs and spices which are not readily available in organic form.
One of the ingredients in the pizza that you might eat tonight might be a salami sausage but not every constituent ingredient of that sausage will appear on the pizza-box label.
Madam President, in France, José Bové is paying for his opposition to GMOs and for his commitment to the precautionary principle with his freedom.
With regard to the labelling of authorised GMOs, we know that the food industry can detect the presence of even 0.1% of GMOs.
Read item 12 of the Scheele report and you realise how worthy of a comedy turn the whole thing is, for it says that, in order for the requirement of labelling to be dispensed with, the operator must certify to the competent authorities that he has done everything possible to prevent genetically modified organisms from being present.
I have to say that I have quite a few reservations about this report.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking both rapporteurs for the work they have done, but I have to say that I am very uneasy about the decision we have to take.
The fact is, I feel as if I am in a kind of hostage situation.
We do not therefore know what situation we are facing.
I am therefore going to vote tomorrow in favour of the amendments by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
I want, however, to say once and for all that there are so many issues left to solve, for example in connection with environmental liability, that there can be no question of lifting the moratorium.
Effective, reliable legal framework conditions for authorising, labelling and tracing GMOs need to be created as soon as possible.
Both regulations, along with the lifting of the de facto moratorium on authorisation, are crucial to the implementation of a forward-looking strategy for European biotechnology, demands for which Parliament endorsed at the beginning of this year.
The moratorium impedes the progress of green biotechnology in the European Union, and, in particular, both damages Europe's innovative SMEs and stands in contradiction to the Lisbon objectives.
The room for action set out in compromise motion No 1 on the Scheele report is desirable.
When it comes to the adventitious and technically unavoidable presence of GMOs in non-genetically-modified products, we need rules that work in practice.
The threshold value is important in terms of different types of cultivation being able to coexist, as, in the natural world, there are no techniques for preventing such things as cross-pollination.
The second point I would like to address is that I do not think it is very fair for us to be now acting as if we were about to vote 'yes' or 'no' to genetically modified organisms.
I believe that we have to stress the fact, and bring it to people's attention, that this stance was friendly only to industry and not to the consumer.
Finally, there are a number of national consultation processes going on in the Member States on GM crops.
The evidence of the cooperation that has taken place between our institutions is in the presentation of the legislation before you for voting on tomorrow.
Some for instance say that we go too far in achieving the balance that we have tried to achieve and that this will put off and set back the development of biotechnology in Europe in the future; that we are losing our good scientists to the United States.
That may be true but, nonetheless, we have to ensure that we have in place good legislation that gives valuable information to the consumer so that the consumer can make the choice of whether or not to consume GM foods.
We have said time and time again that our decisions here in Parliament and in the Commission must be science-based.
In those circumstances, reflecting the views of those who asked us to engage in this exercise and provide this legislation, we have now come to the stage when we must lift the de facto moratorium.
Legislation is in place which gives adequate protection and information for consumers.
I do not believe we should be doing this in the face of any threat of WTO proceedings or anything of that nature.
I do not do this work under threat of WTO proceedings.
To those of you who have expressed scepticism and still have some worries about this legislation, within a period of two years after the adoption of this legislation and it becomes law, there is specific provision in the legislation for a review.
In this debate I can trace a wish to be in a different debate about saying 'yes' or 'no' to GMOs.
We already import into the European Union 35 million tonnes of soya every year.
We have written a new text into the environmental liability proposal.
What we have proposed reflects these concerns and, at the same time, the potential of this new technology.
That is why we are tracing and labelling these products.
A signal that our legislation, which ensures this balance of looking at both the potential benefits and the risks, does not work - we are not ready to apply it.
As you know, the process also leaves it very much up to Member States to demonstrate that they can work with this issue, but if they are not willing to do it the Commission will certainly take responsibility.
It is the consumers themselves who will bring in a moratorium on buying them.
The Commission has also accepted responsibility when it comes to lifting the moratorium.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
WRITTEN DECLARATION (RULE 120) Mr President, both these regulations are meant to establish a single new, Europe-wide, legal framework for the authorisation, labelling and traceability of genetically modified food and feedingstuffs.
We have to meet this need for information, especially in those areas where ignorance gives rise to fears.
I support the compromise.
I hope that the EU will shortly abandon its reservations about GMOs.
The next item should be the joint debate on a number of reports on food safety, but we would have only three minutes available for it before the start of the debate on the Commission communication.
Millions of Europeans use medicines everyday.
However, some of the statistics concerning the industry make difficult reading; those pertaining to research and development, for example: critical to our industry, to our science base and to our patients.
Since 1990, research and development expenditure in the US has grown at a dramatic rate.
Between 1990 and 2000, research and development expenditure grew at twice the rate in the US compared with Europe.
In recognition of the critical role the industry plays in both the industrial and health sectors, Commissioner Byrne and I established the High Level Group on Innovation and the Provision of Medicines - G10 Medicines.
It is a small Group of high-level representatives from Member States, industry, mutual health funds and patients.
There are five broad themes we pursue in the communication which we intend to take forward in parallel.
We also link in to the many initiatives under the Commission's existing Sixth Framework Programme.
The main driving force will be the pharmaceutical review supported by the Life Sciences and Biotechnology Action Plan and the Public Health Programme.
In particular, we propose an examination of national pricing and reimbursement systems.
Although this is clearly within the competence of Member States we believe that the injection of more market measures, while ensuring national safeguards to control expenditure on pharmaceuticals, could bring benefits to patients and the industry in terms of quicker access to the markets.
This rebalancing of policy-making between legitimate industrial innovation and health needs is an important step in the right direction.
The development of rising public health standards, the extension of disease-free life-years and the increase in life expectancy are shaping features of modern economic development, and pharmaceutical innovation has played a significant role in all of this.
Now patients are taking a more active role in seeking out information and products.
From a public health point of view there is a need to ensure that medicines maintain high quality and safety standards and that adverse reactions are quickly identified and tackled.
For example, more must be done to develop products that tackle rare diseases and childhood illnesses.
And, in an ageing society, medicines will play an important role in ensuring active and healthy ageing - with all its attendant economic and human benefits.
For the industries involved, there are a range of specific issues which are being presented to you today.
But we need to be aware that an increasingly global industry is less likely to prioritise investment in research for the treatments which Europeans will need in 10-20 years' time if they are dealing with a fragmented and unpredictable market.
In other words, whilst there will be no shortage of sure-fire lifestyle wonder drugs like Viagra, how can we be sure that the medicines needed to tackle arthritis, Alzheimer's and obesity, to name but a few, will be developed?
The High Level Committee on Health has stated that the public health goal of pharmaceuticals policy is 'to make readily accessible, efficacious, high quality and safe medicines, including their most recent innovative ones, to all those who need them, regardless of income or social status'.
The establishment of an EU-funded European Patients' Platform in February this year is an important step.
Relative effectiveness is a very important issue for the European Union.
In June 2000 the Council underlined the importance of added therapeutic value both in terms of health protection and from an industrial policy perspective.
Finally, the discussion on enlargement is particularly timely.
The accession treaties have been signed.
Although enlargement is one specific recommendation of the G10, clearly our responses to each recommendation need to adequately reflect the changing environment within the European Union.
The G10 is a first important step to developing a strategic vision of the future health needs of Europeans which is affordable, effective, transparent, inclusive and safe.
Thank you, Commissioner Liikanen.
The review is supported by G10 and now has the support of the Member States.
The G10 process goes further, and so far there has not been any broad discussion in the Member States about that.
Mr President, having worked for over thirty years for one of the major international pharmaceutical companies, I can tell you that the main concern of this industry, whether European or otherwise, is neither people's health - and especially not the health of people who cannot afford to pay for their medicines - nor the well-being of its employees, whom it does not hesitate to make redundant by the thousand whenever a merger or concentration takes place in the sector or to drive hard, day and night, even the women, in manufacturing and packing medicines.
Before bringing out a new medicine, the major companies first undertake marketing studies, which determine whether research in the field is continued or stopped.
Too bad if a growing number of men and women find it harder and harder to look after themselves; too bad if in Africa and elsewhere, children are still dying in this day and age of easily curable diseases such as measles, and too bad for those people suffering from malaria or other diseases that affect the populations of poor countries.
The only decision that could satisfy both the employees of these companies and patients - in rich countries and in the developing world - would be for this industry no longer to be a private industry in which only the interests of a minority count, and for it to be placed under the control of the people, for the benefit of everyone.
Thank you, Mrs Bordes.
Fortunately, I have the impression today that the Council has reintroduced a number of items, such as the five-year renewal, marketing authorisations, the centralised procedure and stopping direct advertising to patients.
Regarding information for patients in that area, discussions continue but it seems to be that the majority in the Council and the majority in Parliament are not so far from each other.
This is not the same as the Commission's position, but I respect the outcome of the legislative procedure.
The Commission has never proposed direct-to-consumer advertising.
Commissioners, among your numerous proposals, you referred to the added value of medicines.
Regarding the second question, of course it is very much in the hands of Member States.
Your communication is therefore very well-timed.
As one of the previous speakers already remarked, patients in developing countries are still faced with a shortage of medicines.
In that area, there has been some progress in recent years.
Mr President, I would like to add briefly to what Commissioner Liikanen has just said in answer to that question.
I expect that more information will be made available on that issue as time passes.
Since the European Parliament voted for this report at first reading, we have not had much news.
Mr President, the work that is being undertaken on this issue, by the Commissioners involved, is ongoing, as I indicated earlier.
I also know from the work that has been undertaken by Commissioner Lamy in relation to the provision of drugs to developing countries that this is an issue that is being discussed in the context of the Doha Round.
Whatever happens in public spending, we never will have enough resources to achieve 3%.
If we want to lead in the field of pharmaceutical research we cannot separate different chapters of biotechnological research.
We also need public opinion that supports novelties and innovation in the market.
No research can have financing unless there is a market.
There is no market unless consumers have confidence in the products that come out of research and manufacturing.
Mr President, I wanted to ask a brief question about the European Patients' Platform and to ask the two Commissioners whether they are happy about the degree of independence of those who represent patients.
I do so against the background of articles published in the British Medical Journal in the United Kingdom.
We all understand that without the support of the pharmaceuticals industry there would be very few patients' voices, but that voice does not come without a price.
I would be interested in your views on that. .
The next item is Question Time (B5-0098/2003).
The Commission's task in this is to ensure that two principles are maintained, the first being the principle of relative stability, which is laid down in Article 20 of the new framework regulation for the common fisheries policy.
Another principle in the common fisheries policy, in addition to this one, is that of free access to waters outside the twelve-mile-zone, which is laid down in Article 17 of the new framework regulation, and which is of fundamental importance.
The Commission is establishing a strategic partnership with the ILO as a follow-up to the communication on building an effective partnership with the United Nations in the fields of development and humanitarian affairs and the communication on promoting core labour standards and social governance.
The Community is increasing its support for universal and compulsory primary education in all developing countries.
We place great emphasis on working with the ILO on this issue, both because of the problem of child labour as such, and because this is an area in which most people understand the whole rationale of strengthening governance and the rights that the ILO is working for.
I wish to thank Commissioner Nielson for his reply.
I am pleased that steps are being taken by the Commissioner to follow up on the commitments already made, and look forward to the outcome of the meeting on 8 July.
The global statistics for the involvement of children in labour are really astonishing, particularly when you see the breakdown, where it is estimated that something like two million children globally are involved in prostitution and pornography and approximately six million children are in bonded or forced labour.
The global figure is something close to 200 million for child labour.
Very little is decided in these activities without being defined by the market in our rich part of the world.
Matching this with the broader work of increasing respect for the basic principles that the ILO stands for will, I hope, make a difference.
As you know, we relaunched the process last year and, since then, negotiators on both sides have been working relentlessly to make progress on its various aspects.
Since March of this year, the pace has been relaxed.
We must continue to make progress because much remains to be done, not least because our friends in Mercosur are anxious for the Union to make a gesture.
We are considering this step, particularly because these negotiations - especially in the field of agriculture - cannot be separated, in terms of a bargaining chip for the EU, from what is happening in the multilateral context of the World Trade Organisation.
Both of these undoubtedly wanted to convey to Mercosur, in other words Paraguay and Uruguay, to Latin America and more generally, to the entire world, their desire and their will to strengthen the process of integrating Mercosur.
We therefore wish to hold 'one-on-one' negotiations and not 'one-on-four' as is done in other areas such as the North-South America free trade zone.
I have also said, moreover, and have said so publicly to our partners in Mercosur, that the EU's trade ambitions towards Mercosur are in line with Mercosur's own ambition in the field of political, economic and commercial integration.
What means, then, are we making available to Mercosur under economic cooperation?
There is first of all our action at regional level: we have a regional Mercosur/European Union strategy on contributing to the completion of Mercosur's internal market and, for the 2000-2006 period, this amounts to just over EUR one million.
We are committing more than EUR 10 million in the same period to Mercosur's institutionalisation and there is a third chapter of assistance for civil society.
We are familiar with these issues because we have faced them ourselves in the recent past.
Furthermore, we have also developed cooperation strategies with a number of Mercosur countries involving sums of around EUR 200 million for the period that I have just mentioned.
These strategies can also contribute to supporting regional integration, economic reform and social development.
Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay have a real need to pursue thoroughgoing reform.
In any event, I would like to say, before asking one last question, that the members of the Delegation for relations with the countries of South America and Mercosur have just returned from Brasilia.
Our idea is that these efforts will be reproduced in other places, in the future, perhaps with the Andean community, perhaps with the communities of Central America.
This concept of regional integration that we wish to encourage is therefore positive, not because it systematically converts everyone to the European model, but because we believe that, since these countries themselves have decided that integration is in their interest, they deserve our full and unremitting support.
Question No 34 by Bernd Posselt (H-0380/03): Subject: Foreign trade with southern Africa What is the Commission's view of foreign trade developments between the EU and the countries in sub-Saharan Africa?
It is, in any event, lower than the growth in world trade.
This was the case, for example, between 2001 and 2002, despite the 'Everything but arms' initiative which, in that period, provided around EUR 90 million for the whole of 2002, which was the first full year in which the system was implemented.
In order to achieve this we have a policy that has now stabilised and is one with which the European Parliament is familiar, because we discuss it often: first of all, stepping up regional integration amongst African countries themselves; second, strengthening economic and trade links between these countries and the EU; and lastly, gradually integrating African countries into the world economy, because we cannot lay claim to an exclusive relationship with them and nor would this be in their interests.
This is why we are now in continuous discussion, if I may put it this way, with our African colleagues, not only in the context of regional relations - and I am here talking about the negotiations on economic partnership agreements - but also multilaterally, given the topicality of the Doha round of negotiations.
What I want to ask you is what the Commission is doing in order - and I do know that this is in practice very difficult - to build up cooperation between sub-Saharan Africa and the European Union as regards small and medium-sized enterprises.
I would like to know what is being done in the area of cooperation between small and medium-sized enterprises.
Having said that, with what we are doing in the field of development aid and technical assistance for training, with what we are doing to encourage trade and with what the European Investment Bank is now doing - and God knows it is putting enough effort into it! - in this region, the volume and the number of instruments available to the entrepreneurial initiative are, I believe, experiencing rapid growth.
Investment is necessary even if it only pays off in the medium and long term and even if we have to wait until a reasonably sophisticated level of development has been achieved to ensure that small businesses - which are by definition much more reticent about taking risks than large companies - participate actively in the type of trade that we want to promote.
Mr Purvis, we do not agree with this position and we sought to ensure that the President of the United States was informed of the matter, as they say in English, 'straight from the horse's mouth'.
There are other ways of proceeding, however, such as reducing food aid in kind, as we have done, in order to provide food aid in cash.
In Africa in particular, we have funded food aid at regional level.
We simply hope that these countries retain their freedom to decide and their sovereignty.
In order to ensure this, we simply have to reduce food aid in kind and increase financial aid for food, in line, furthermore, with the regulations of the various United Nations food programmes.
My point is that without peace in Africa, without the stability of its countries, I do not see how one can talk of trade as calmly and with as much aplomb as the Commissioner.
I also believe that African leaders and the governments of these countries are more aware now than in the past of the need to address, both on their own and with one another, a number of political obstacles of this type.
Programmes such as NEPAD - which we support because our work on regional integration in Africa closely mirrors the strategy adopted by this new partnership - are, in my opinion, moving in the same direction.
If we manage to convince a number of economic operators to work towards an environment that is more stable, less conflict-ridden and less disjointed, we could perhaps, here and there, create pressure for peace.
Question No 35 by Glenys Kinnock (H-0392/03): Subject: WTO - TRIPS What is the Commission's response to the concerns from the ACP about lack of agreement on the implementation of Paragraph 6 of the Declaration on TRIPS and public health?
Our position on this matter is simple: Doha, and nothing but Doha.
The compromise text of last December and nothing but the compromise text.
We have always maintained this position, and this is why we proposed, at the beginning of the year, to call on the World Health Organisation to re-establish confidence and to find a way out of the current impasse.
Our strategy remains the same.
We will continue to make every effort to find a solution before the Cancun ministerial conference.
A number of our friends in developing countries have intimated that, to some extent, unless agreement is reached on this point, everything that will be on the table in Cancun and, consequently, the outcome of the multilateral negotiations launched in Doha could be at risk.
The Commissioner will be aware of the letter that the President-in-Office of the ACP sent in May 2003 to the chair of the TRIPs Council, raising a number of issues.
The application of the agreement on national emergencies is something the ACP and other developing countries are not happy with.
Commissioner, I know that you are making every effort to bring the opposing sides together, but are you not putting yourself in danger of being seen as deviating from the content and understanding of the consensus which was so valiantly achieved in the Doha Declaration?
I presented this proposal to consult the World Health Organisation, should this prove necessary, in January because I believe that the Americans are not on board on this matter.
A similar position is held by the developing countries, which also lack confidence and feel that the pharmaceutical industry in general will take every opportunity to take all the credit, as it has done, in their opinion, over the last few years.
We must consequently raise the level of confidence in the system on both sides and this is what we are working on.
Question No 36 by Juan José Bayona de Perogordo (H-0399/03): Subject: Unfair competition from goods imported from China In the course of 2001, China greatly increased its exports of ceramics.
This matter is not very complicated in technical terms, but the question raises two separate issues: the first is the increase in imports of ceramic products from the People's Republic of China and the second, a problem of potential fraud with regard to the origin of these products.
Where our imports of ceramics from the People's Republic of China are concerned, it is true that in 1994 quantity limits were applied to imports of this nature, and to tableware or kitchenware in particular.
I now come to the second part of your question, which concerns problems relating to fraud.
I believe that you agree with many European citizens and, amongst others, the ceramics industry, that the current situation is a fraud, causes harm and constitutes a threat for the future.
What we need, in order to commit resources which, as you know, are scarce despite the considerable efforts of the European Parliament to give the Commission additional means, is to have sufficiently precise information, rather like a unit that is given the task of investigating fraud in the police force.
Mr President, my question is supplementary to that of Mr Bayona.
I hold such discussions in other areas and if there is a need to do so in this specific area, I will say 'yes', provided that I am given the necessary information.
I have a great interest in this question, both as the Member representing the region of Stoke-on-Trent in the United Kingdom and also as the deputy chairman of the European Parliament ceramics industry forum, which has had a dialogue with both Commissioner Lamy and Commissioner Bolkestein.
As he may be aware, Commissioner Byrne's services are actively considering this proposal at the moment and are having discussions with the European industry about that type of marking.
This has always been our approach, in line with the criteria set out in the conclusions of the Helsinki European Council of 1999.
We also made this issue a specific priority for the review of the partnership for Turkish accession, which was adopted in May 2003.
Accordingly, as on other matters requiring progress on the part of Turkey, we will closely follow developments in this matter and will present a detailed assessment in the periodic report that we are due to publish at the beginning of November.
I would like to answer Mr Zacharakis very briefly by saying that, to my knowledge, despite the most strenuous efforts of Mrs de Palacio in this area over several years, we have still not quite established a non-segregated Community airspace.
To my knowledge, therefore, we are dealing at this stage with Greek airspace.
Question No 37, by Mr Karas, has been withdrawn.
It is, of course, inevitable that the Member States' different laws and values will make themselves felt in different forms of legislation.
What is, however, unique and serious in this case is that it entails subsidising, for foreign citizens of other Member States, an activity that I specified by name in my question, that is illegal in a number of Member States and that involves inviting citizens of other EU countries to engage in an activity that is illegal in these EU countries.
Indeed, the Commission is of the view that the changes in attitude within some Member States regarding issues such as abortion are driven by public opinion rather than by external factors.
It is within the competence of the Swedish Government to take a decision on that, and the extent of benefits allowed under Swedish legislation would, as I said earlier, have no impact on the legislation of a country where abortion is forbidden, such as Ireland.
On the basis of this new information, the Commission services addressed a letter to the competent Hellenic authorities in late April 2003, asking them to take a position on specific issues raised in relation to the compatibility of the Hellenic legislation and practice with Community public procurement legislation and the relevant jurisprudence of the Court of Justice.
The Commission services have very recently received a request on behalf of the Hellenic authorities to extend the time given to them to reply to this new letter until 30 June 2003, in order for them to give a comprehensive answer on the whole issue and in view of certain changes that they envisage concerning the relevant legislation.
The formula in question is so complicated that even Greek experts have great difficulty in understanding how it works.
I would like to ask you whether it is your preliminary assessment that this mathematical formula really is compatible with Community law.
I cannot see why the Greek authorities proceeded, as you said, to change the law, as the Greek Parliament already has the capacity to deal with this.
Also, although this was a formula for avoiding very low offers, it had a damaging effect on the overall assessment of public works, owing to the very small percentage of the original amount intended for the public works concerned. .
I cannot say more than this.
Question No 40 by Elly Plooij-van Gorsel (H-0402/03): Subject: Principle of 'fair compensation' Directive 2001/29/EC . (NL) Mr President, I can confirm that the principle of 'fair compensation', as described in the directive, is a new concept, to be distinguished from the right to receive fair remuneration, indicated with the term 'copyright' in the context of reproduction for private use.
As is indicated in the directive, the concept of fair compensation offers Member States a considerable degree of flexibility or freedom of judgment when they decide on the form, the modalities or the level of fair compensation regulations.
However, pursuant to recitals 35 and 38, Member States that apply copyright meet the condition that fair compensation must be in place.
Relevant legislation implementing the directive need not necessarily contain a specific reference to the principle of fair compensation.
In accordance with the directive, Member States are obliged to ensure that fair compensation is in place for three of the exceptions to the reproduction right listed in the directive.
The second one pertains to the exception for reprographics or photocopying and the third one relates to transmissions in some social institutions such as hospitals or prisons.
This is due to the fact that the EC legislator ruled against a higher degree of harmonisation during negotiations about the directive.
At the same time, it must be stressed that the directive does not require Member States to abolish copyright, or to take a stand for or against copyright in comparison to digital rights management systems.
As far as I know - and I have been involved in information society legislation for years - we in Europe specifically do not draw a distinction between digital and analogue, in the sense that legislation must be technology-neutral.
I have, however, a question for those of you responsible for the internal market.
The Commission hopes that this will soon be the case.
The issue is important and essential aspects of the internal market are at stake.
If the Commission is unwilling to publish such information, will it please explain how such unwillingness could be deemed to be in the public interest? .
With a view to increasing transparency according to Article 10, the Commission published for the first time a report on the rapid alert system for food and feed for the year 2002.
However, we cannot apply the food law retroactively and go back as far as 1992.
These reports contain information on the type of product and the problem identified, the origin of the product and the notifying Member State.
The rapid alert system defined in Article 50 of the regulation is designed primarily as a tool for the rapid transmission of information amongst competent authorities in cases where a risk has been identified and measures have already been taken by the notifying Member State, such as withholding, recalling, seizure or rejection of the products concerned.
The quick transmission of information allows all other Member States to verify immediately whether they are also affected by the problem in question, or to ensure that a product rejected at one point of entry does not enter through another place.
It also ensures coherent and simultaneous actions by all Member States.
In addition, the information collected by the rapid alert system is used by the Commission.
For example, my services use the information to set priorities for the Food and Veterinary Office and to propose measures such as suspension of the placing on the market, suspension of imports or any other emergency measure under Article 53 of the regulation.
The Commission also uses this information to assist third countries.
It is true that, according to Article 52 of the Food Law Regulation, the Commission does not publish trade names and the identity of individual companies in the regular rapid alert summaries.
However, where emergency measures are taken by Member States or the Commission, in the light of the analysis of the risk posed by the alert, such relevant information on the products concerned by the action is made public.
It is very targeted and the purpose of the exercise is, as I am sure she will appreciate, to transmit as fast as possible the relevant information to the competent authorities of all Member States, so that they can make a rapid response and take rapid action in relation to the risk that has been identified in respect of any particular food or feed in question.
I would like to emphasise that once the rapid alert has been made and responses have been taken, and if it is shown that it is a genuine problem from which consumers need to be protected, the Member States in question, where there is a risk - and it is for them to determine this - will immediately inform their own consumers in their Member State.
That is their responsibility under the rapid alert system.
However, bear in mind that the rapid alert system is designed to allow Member States to react quickly and to remove, for instance, foods from the market.
In relation to the second part of your question concerning the figures for 2002, I do not have the specific figures to hand relating to the breakdown between farmed fish and wild fish, but I am sure this kind of information is available to my services.
Question No 42 will not be replied to since its subject appears on the agenda of the present part-session.
Question No 43 by John Purvis (H-0369/03): Subject: Cost-benefit analysis of the identification and registration of sheep and goats The Commission's proposal for a regulation on the identification and registration of sheep and goats is a cause of deep concern in Scotland.
In its resolution on foot and mouth disease of December 2002, the European Parliament stated that the Commission should as quickly as possible submit a proposal to amend Directive 92/102/EEC so as to improve the identification of pigs, sheep and goats.
According to current legislation sheep and goats must be identified with an eartag or a tattoo linked to the holding.
Furthermore it will allow accurate tracing of animals in the framework of the animal disease eradication programmes financed by the Community.
Finally, such a system would assist in reducing fraud.
The Commission launched a large-scale pilot project - the IDEA Project - in 1998.
The proposal therefore provides for further guidelines and procedures to be adopted through the Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health, with entry into force of obligatory electronic tagging foreseen for 1 July 2006.
I am well aware of the diversity of the sheep population and the sheep production systems in the Member States.
The proposal therefore includes options, which would allow: Member States to defer the identification of lambs up to the age of 6 months, where sheep are kept under extensive farming conditions, for instance in Scotland - to which the questioner referred; Member States to apply simplified identification arrangements to young lambs, up to six months of age, intended for direct slaughter.
The estimation of the costs of introduction of the reinforced system on a Community-wide basis has to take into account the diversity of the sheep population and the sheep production systems in the Member States.
On this basis, the overall costs of the reinforced system are estimated to vary between EUR 1 for traditional eartags to EUR 3.7 for electronic identification per sheep per year.
I recognise that this proposal will require significant efforts by both operators and authorities.
But these efforts in my opinion and in the opinion of the Commission are both worthwhile and necessary.
I am sure that in his home country of Ireland the situation is the same as in Scotland, where you have thousands of sheep going through in one day and each individual sheep has to be inspected and tagged as it goes through.
In answer to the supplementary question from Mr Purvis, let me say that I, the Commission and my advisers have considered the possibility of herd tagging.
The answer they gave me - and it seemed credible - is that the system of herd tagging you suggest does not have the same degree of security in circumstances where you may have an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease or similar.
Also, for the reason that you identify in your supplementary question, in these markets that we see in Scotland and in my home country of Ireland as well, herds arrive, they are sub-divided into other herds, they are separated so that the chance of following a particular herd number and getting the information that you need in the case of an outbreak of disease is diluted to a considerable extent.
Member States want it, even the Member States that have large sheep populations and trade a lot in sheep, both within the Member State and across borders.
Therefore, in the light of the need to protect animal health and for other reasons it seems necessary to come forward with that particular proposal.
Finally, I should again draw attention to what I said a moment ago: the Commission has taken into account the diversity of the sheep population and the sheep production systems in Member States and the proposal includes options which Member States may decide to apply under certain circumstances.
Where the animals are obviously over six months of age, then, of course, individual tagging must take place for the reason I have already identified.
The upper limit of this level is an incidence of 100 cases per million adult cattle over the past 12 months.
The incidence is, however, still well below this upper limit of around 45 cases per million adult cattle over the past 12 months, and it is not increasing rapidly.
In the first quarter of this year, Spain reported about 50% more BSE cases than during the corresponding period last year.
At the same time the number of cases decreased or was stable in all other Member States, except Portugal.
Compared with other Member States, Spain has a rather high rate of young animals born in 1997 and 1998.
Other measures to reduce the transmission of BSE are improved rendering standards - which came into effect in early 1997 - and a ban on the use of so-called BSE risk materials in food and feed, which became effective in October 2000.
The current Community legislation should, if rigorously implemented, be sufficient to prevent new animals from becoming infected.
BSE cases will, nevertheless, continue to appear in Spain, as in other Member States, for a number of years because of an incubation time of four to six years or even longer.
Spain has also informed the Commission of a number of breaches of the feed ban detected in 2002.
The number of breaches is very small and below the average in Member States.
Changes in society over the past twenty years have also left their mark on our eating habits.
At second reading stage, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy adopted three amendments, all of which have the same objective in mind, that of removing the requirement to include on the label processing aids manufactured from substances on the list of allergenic substances, but no longer present in the end product and thus not liable to trigger an allergic reaction.
Checks must be carried out to establish if a product is still allergenic if, in the course of its production, a processing aid was used that was allergenic in its original form - protein is one example - but which has lost its allergenic character as a result of the food production process, or which is either no longer present, or present in a modified form.
I ask the Commission - and you, Mr Byrne - to confirm to me that further new studies can be commissioned and notified up to nine months after the directive's entry into force, and that exemption from mandatory labelling will apply for a full four years.
The Council and the Commission must accept Parliament's view of this problem.
My main concern during the production of this report has been that the food additives included in it should not only represent technological progress but they should not pose any risk to health nor cause misunderstanding amongst consumers.
The compromise amendments we are presenting to plenary, together with the Socialist Group and the Liberal Group (Amendments Nos 19 to 32) are the result of this concern that we all share.
However, in view of the existing concern about the use of polysorbates, of the ruling of the Court of Justice of 20 March 2003, on the maximum doses of nitrites and nitrates, and the declaration of the Scientific Committee on Food of 4 April 2003, on derivatives of parahydroxybenzoic acid, two new paragraphs for Article 2 are being presented by means of Amendment No 21.
The intention is that the Commission should review the use of additives E 432 to E 436 (that is, polysorbates), E 251, E 252, and E 249 to E 250 (which are nitrates and nitrites) and that, before 1 July 2004, the conditions of use for parabens, from E 214 to E 219, should be revised.
Otherwise, these flavouring additives will have to be labelled.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that it is very important that we make consumers aware that thanks to the legislation on additives and the work of the Scientific Committee on Food they can enjoy adequate food safety and food products which are suited to their needs.
I shall address this issue in three ways.
Firstly, I wish to express my gratitude; secondly, I wish to explain why I do not like the compromise; and thirdly, I wish to explain why, in spite of everything, I support the compromise.
I want to address a very big thank-you to everyone who has contributed: to the Commission, the Council, the committee secretariat and all my colleagues and fellow MEPs in the committee - the shadow rapporteurs - who have been of very great help to us in reaching this solution.
In that way, we should be more credible in our negotiations, for example within the WTO, with the United States.
That is what we do in the EU, and it undermines our credibility and our opposition to these hormones.
The committee was in agreement - as was Parliament, mainly, at first reading - about proceeding in this way.
Even if I had full support for my desire for a total ban, I personally realised that it might be sensible to try to reach a compromise.
I therefore contacted my fellow MEPs in the other political groups and said that we should perhaps try, for the fact of the matter was that the Council said that it wanted to retain the substances for three reasons: firstly, to induce rutting in cattle, which is the most important area of usage; secondly, for foetus maceration and mummification, also mainly in the case of cattle; and, thirdly, for pyometra in cattle.
The latter two are, moreover, relatively important from the point of view of animal protection.
My proposal, which became our proposal following contact with the other political groups, was that we should propose to the Council that the substances be kept for the purposes of the two less important areas relating to dead foetuses and pyometra.
I see this as major progress, and we can thus perhaps solve the problem.
We shall therefore be able to phase out the main use and thus strengthen our hand in the dispute with the United States.
The common position represents a balanced compromise, including the majority of the measures proposed by the Commission, whilst restricting the scope of exemptions.
The common position includes - either word for word or in substance - Parliament's four amendments as set out by the Commission in its amended proposal.
Second, the review and update of the list of allergenic ingredients to reflect scientific advances.
Third, the addition of celery and mustard and their derived products to the list of allergenic substances.
The common position includes mandatory labelling, but states also that these substances could be exempted in the future, should scientific evidence provide justification for such action.
I share the view of the rapporteur and the committee that this might not be the best solution, but I do not agree with that suggested by Amendment Nos 1 and 2.
It also expressly exempts the processing aids used in alcoholic beverages from labelling, while these are not covered in this paragraph of the common position.
Amendment No 3 requests the Commission to adopt, before 1 January 2004, following an opinion from the European Food Safety Authority, a list of derivatives that should be considered as non-allergenic.
This goes in the right direction but, in addition to the unrealistic deadline, it is not acceptable as such because only studies conducted under the responsibility of the industry, on specific allergens' derivatives used in specific circumstances, could be considered and submitted for an opinion from the EFSA - for example, fish gelatine used as clarifying agent in beer.
That is why only Amendment No 4, which constitutes a workable and reasonable compromise, can be accepted.
In December 2002 the Commission adopted a proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive amending Directive 95/2/EC on food additives other than colours and sweeteners.
In particular, on the 'use of food additives in flavourings', the proposal is in the interests of consumers and industry as it would achieve harmonisation of this sector at Community level.
The debate on hormones has proved to be as delicate as the hormonal balance controlling the physiological functions in living creatures.
However, intricate discussions in the Council - which took more than two years, spanned four presidencies and included two extra background reports - have demonstrated that prohibiting oestradiol is not as straightforward as was first imagined.
They are, firstly, to protect consumer health and, secondly, to achieve compliance with WTO requirements.
The adoption of this text with Amendment Nos 17, 18 and 19 would result in a significant reduction in the use of oestradiol.
It will, therefore, allow the Community to implement its international obligations in the context of the World Trade Organisation.
They help in technical processes such as filtering.
That is the solution that this House adopted at first reading.
The problem is relatively simple for those allergens actually present in the final product.
Since the best is always the enemy of the good, are we not in danger, in our commendable desire to protect allergy sufferers, of weakening traditional production methods through such measures, even causing markets to go bust, with no scientific proof of the harmful character of these aids?
There is, however, a group of people who lead extremely difficult lives, namely those who genuinely have food allergies.
My group will support all three of these reports.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would particularly like to congratulate Mrs Klaß, who has worked very competently on this report and shown herself capable of weighing up both the advantages and the negative consequences of systematic labelling regulations.
In a sense, I had already proposed that solution anyway, in the amendments I tabled in committee, but I had then rallied round, without enthusiasm, to the solution advocated by the rapporteur.
Ensuring clear and relevant information as well as a certain level of protection for consumers suffering from allergies makes good sense to me.
In short, the burden of proof falls on their shoulders, but we have bought some time to do the relevant research.
I would like to conclude by thanking the rapporteur and supporting the solution proposed in Amendment No 4.
Mr President, the three reports which are now the subjects of a joint debate are important items of focus in our endeavours to ensure food safety and consumer welfare.
I would like to thank my colleagues for their excellent work.
One cause of that, of course, is the way the European press often deliberately sets out to portray things in a negative light, and disregarding the real problem at issue.
I suppose our package permits the further use of additives, but it has been quite crucial for me that we are now also putting the emphasis on the Commission's supervision and re-evaluation of the use of previously approved substances.
In my opinion, the Commission should constantly inspect and re-evaluate the use of additives so that the three well-known conditions for using them are fully complied with at all times.
I am therefore very pleased about the provisions in the package whereby the Commission must, within two years, present an overall report on the re-evaluation of additives and whereby this report must promptly focus especially upon the use of certain types, including nitrates, nitrites and polysorbates.
I hope that tomorrow's adoption of the reports and the process leading to approval of the package may herald a better policy on the use of additives in food.
In other words, hormones in general will cease to be used in animal husbandry.
I believe the Amendment No 4 compromise is quite clear.
The industry can notify the studies for existing derivative products for a period of nine months after the entry into force of the directive.
The Commission will finally need to decide, at the latest four years after the entry into force, whether a derivative will need to be labelled or not.
If our new directive leads industry to consider requesting a study, is it possible that it is only now that I would commission one?
The compromise that was reached related to studies for existing derivative products; that was for a period of nine months after the entry into force of the directive.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The shadow rapporteurs have been especially helpful.
Our discussion about the environmental benefit in the first reading and the economic costs in the second almost inevitably lead to the conclusion that the optimum percentage could vary substantially from one country to another.
The discussion was indeed more of a discussion between countries than between political groups.
But that is only possible if sufficient recycling capacity has already been created in each country.
We must certainly not set the bar too low, nor too high, nor too close, nor too far away.
In passing I note that we are therefore later than the original Commission proposal, because that was 55% in 2006.
It is very important to set ambitious but achievable targets for the new Member States as well.
Waste and recycling have become global markets.
The responsibility of producers here is not just financial.
It will lead to every country having optimum recycling capacity because every material producer will have an interest in recycling.
The introduction of an indicator is also a way of giving consumers greater involvement with packaging and of giving supermarkets or businesses the opportunity only to choose five-star packaging for example.
This approach fits in perfectly with the sixth environmental action programme.
I would like to draw your attention to two further points.
I have a question for the Commission about this.
The ceramics industry is concerned about the effects of the packaging directive and is seeking total exemption.
Firstly, in my view it is not advantageous for the ceramics industry to fall completely outside the packaging directive - this directive does after all provide the basis for trade in the internal market.
Commissioner, what is your opinion on this?
In 1999 a total amount of 63.5 million tonnes of packaging waste was generated in the European Union.
The packaging and packaging waste directive has made the collection and recycling of packaging waste a normal activity in all EU Member States, increasingly so also in the accession countries.
In this way the directive has helped to reduce environmental impacts and to strengthen the internal market for packaging and packaging waste.
I am very pleased that the European Parliament has, since the first reading, given clear support for our proposal to more than double the minimum recycling targets and to further increase the recovery target.
The key remaining question is whether the implementation deadline will be 2008, as in the common position, or whether an earlier date should be set.
In my view deadlines should be both realistic and ambitious.
It will also be important to give Greece, Ireland and Portugal - Member States already granted later target dates under current legislation - a reasonable time to adapt to the new targets.
This also applies to the accession states.
I intend to propose deadlines for these countries before the end of this year.
However, the need for further analysis also applies to the new obligation referred to in the first part of Amendment No 7.
This new obligation to minimise the environmental impact of packaging risks duplicating the existing essential requirements and facing the same problems in regard to enforcement.
I doubt that we need written proof of the recycling of each exported batch.
Let me be clear that nothing in the directive obliges Member States to set up recycling systems for this type of packaging.
It also gives Member States the freedom to take any measure on ceramics packaging, as long as it is within the framework of the Treaty.
Therefore I believe it is better to ask the Technical Committee to solve any possible implementation problems, rather than excluding ceramics from the scope of the directive.
Of the 32 amendments the Commission can accept 20 amendments in full, in part, or in principle.
We must not forget the fact that in certain Member States the objectives will be more difficult to achieve for historical reasons relating to lack of infrastructure, low population density or consumer habits.
I regret not having been able to reach a full agreement with the rapporteur, but I believe that her work has not been at all easy.
I understand that in countries such as Germany, Belgium or the Netherlands the collection of waste is cheap and efficient.
But it is not logical to impose the same objectives on other Member States which do not have a similar distribution of population.
And I am not just talking about my country, Spain, but also Finland, Sweden, France, the United Kingdom and other Member States which are going to have great difficulties fulfilling the objectives agreed in the common position.
And this is not a problem of a lack of investment on the part of public administrations.
We need a realistic, flexible and, above all, applicable directive.
I believe that the Council's common position is pretty balanced.
Finally, we must bear in mind that packaging waste represents a relatively small proportion of all waste generated in the Member States, 3% according to you, Commissioner.
Mr President, it is important to improve on the present Directive on packaging waste, as has been said here in several speeches.
The targets for recycling and re-use for the next five years in the form now proposed are fairly high but are by no means unreasonable.
In order to reach the targets, however, we should bear in mind the excellent measures that have already been implemented in different Member States to achieve the greatest possible targets for recycling and re-use.
Just as the rapporteur stated, economic and ecological factors must be taken into consideration in this connection.
I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that, as recycling targets are being proposed for wood, it is these very ecological and economic factors that have not necessarily been taken into consideration.
The 15% target for wood is a low one, but in a country like Finland, for example, the ecological disadvantages of transportation greatly outweigh the benefits gained from recycling wood in this way.
I therefore hope that common sense will prevail and that Amendment No 26, which is a proposal put forward by the rapporteur and others, will be supported.
Nor does it make any sense at all for us to occupy ourselves with recycling - irrespective of whether it be recycling proper, including energy recycling, or re-utilisation - and for us to spend the whole time debating the packaging that goes out to households.
Mr President, in brief, since I can do little more within one minute, I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for seeking a compromise which has led to 11 amendments being signed, the majority of them, by several groups, for the revision of this Directive.
Mr President, my group will be supporting a number of the compromise amendments that have been put forward.
However, looking at the current packaging directive and at compliance with it, and just looking at my own country Ireland and a number of others, for example Portugal and Greece - they are all now looking for derogations for extra time.
If the existing Member States cannot comply with the existing legislation and cannot meet their targets then it is going to be very difficult to argue and to push for the new countries coming in to do the same, since they come from an economically less well-off background.
Some of the proposals that have been put forward in the legislation were alarming.
The idea of a maximum target for recycling is crazy.
The issue of recovery is a major problem.
At this stage we have to do what has been proposed by some other speakers.
This approach will also have to be recognised in this directive.
I recognise that the targets of this directive may be ambitious, but nonetheless this matter must not end in conciliation, certainly not if there is agreement with the Council on the other points.
We know that there are some Member States that want to go beyond the proposed targets.
So why are we ploughing on with a strategy that is already being undermined by the practicalities?
The United Kingdom has a problem with this.
Maybe such policies are not the most pressing priorities of my country's local authorities.
Maybe their priority is financing home helps, Meals on Wheels for the elderly or services of another kind.
In Europe, we have to have comparable rules, and the ground rules have to be interpreted in such a way that the Member States can make a start.
They gave me a good telling-off and said to me, 'Florenz, why are we, in Germany, in the Netherlands, in Belgium, in a number of Nordic countries, keeping in step and implementing these rules, while, elsewhere, they are doing nothing at all?
Mrs Corbey, I see it as almost shameful that we should be starting a dispute in this House as to whether the starting date should be 2008 or 2007.
With my liberal approach, I do not go as far as that, but when it comes to exports, we cannot have the situation in which enterprises here develop recycling strategies, and then export the materials.
Ministers are calling for a 2008 date for the UK and some of the other states.
The UK is meeting its existing recycling targets, but it is simply not possible to meet and implement this legislation by 2007 without an expensive, crash-spending programme.
The figures do not look very significant, but they represent millions of tonnes of material which must be collected, recycled and new markets found.
Everyone wants to achieve the targets in their own way.
Commissioner, I have a question for you about this.
Mr President, key to the 1994 directive were targets for Member States for packaging recovery and recycling, to be set initially for a five-year phase and thereafter to be reviewed for subsequent five-year phases - and hence we are here today.
I support the objective of this directive to minimise the impact of packaging and packaging waste, as long as the costs are proportionate to the environmental benefits.
The key concern in relation to the amendments to this directive is the deadline for achieving compliance with the proposed higher recovery and recycling targets.
I wish to draw attention to the derogation that sets the same recovery and recycling targets as for the other twelve Member States, but allows Ireland, Greece and Portugal longer to achieve them.
I urge support for the common position, which sets an accepted deadline of 2012.
There is an assumption that all Member States should ultimately reach the same recovery and recycling rates, irrespective of size, geography or infrastructure.
Yes, far more could be done, but in Ireland's case we have a population of less than four million and too small a market to sustain a packaging manufacturing infrastructure.
We import 75% of our packaged goods.
To comply with this directive we must ship packaging waste overseas or build more reprocessing facilities and export the empty packaging, which is uneconomic.
The cost will not be proportional to the environmental benefit.
From an environmental point of view it is more important to optimise collection and recycling in the Community as a whole, rather than to consider whether this takes place in a particular Member State.
The very fact that there is an aim to recycle 55% by weight of packaging waste and an obligation that goes with it to take the environmental costs and benefits of the recovery and recycling of packaging materials into account means that there should be no one-sided increase in material-specific commitments, even if that would mean the 55% target would be achieved more quickly.
The Commission has promised to present a report in 2005, one section of which is to be on the subject of re-use.
My amendment proposes that that report should examine re-use and, in particular, a comparison of the ecological benefits of re-use and those of recycling.
I want to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation.
Amendment No 4 has to do with packaging materials in small quantities, which are therefore subject to a very low market penetration in the Member States.
I therefore urge you to support Amendment No 4.
Secondly, in reply to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, we think that deposits on one-way packaging are in principle acceptable.
We have done a very thorough job in comparing these targets and looking at the situation in different countries.
There is, of course, a balance in trying to do what we can now and dealing with the acute problems of handling waste, while at the same time preparing for a modern, long-term strategy, which will probably not be following waste stream per waste stream.
I agree that this is the right approach, but the question is extremely complicated, because the whole issue has to be looked at in different ways.
The IPP strategy has to do with this, our resource-use strategy as well as a new waste-recycling strategy.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Fifthly, credits deriving from clean development projects and joint implementation of the Kyoto Protocol will be linked into this directive, but they will not replace the priority that should be given to domestic measures.
Lastly, I would like to draw your attention to the inclusion of benchmarking criteria for allocating emissions allowances among the Member States.
I would like to thank the Commission, whose arbitration between Council and Commission was exemplary.
Most of all, I would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs, because I believe that without their cooperation and support, Parliament could not have remained united.
Acceptance of this package in the vote tomorrow will enable a highly ambitious and innovative policy to come into force.
The emissions trading scheme is a centrepiece of that action and a strong signal of that commitment.
At the heart of the European climate change programme that the Commission has set up is the preparation of concrete proposals for action, several of which have already been adopted by this House.
As you know, our approach to climate change follows three tracks: a leading role internationally in establishing the framework for global action, emissions trading within the EU, as the most cost-effective way to cut emissions and, thirdly, specific sectoral measures to reduce emissions, for example by promoting renewables, increasing energy efficiency and reducing CO2 emissions from cars.
The scheme is not only multi-sectoral but also multinational: it will cover at least 25 countries, i.e.
The Commission awaits the vote in a position of wholly endorsing the compromise package.
It has the support of all Member States.
The European Parliament has achieved significant concessions from the Council in this compromise agreement, for example in the extension of auctioning to the first trading period and additional safeguards against the over-allocation of allowances.
This really is about how future generations will live, and, although I am very keen on conciliation procedures, we should dispense with one and give the Council a great opportunity to follow where we lead.
That was a first-class demonstration of the Member States' weakness and lack of courage when it came to developing an approach according to which both transport and personal house fires - such as we have in our own homes - would in future be covered by the Kyoto Protocol.
I believe that we have made a good start by taking 1990 as the initial reference year, and I hope that, with joint implementation, and also with CDMs, we are on the right track.
Many thanks, Mr Moreira da Silva.
An energetic step to achieve the Kyoto targets is now of major importance.
Unfortunately, we have to say that it has also been at the expense of our democratic procedures.
Kyoto must not be allowed to be a reason for closing businesses or moving them to a different part of the world and then selling the emission rights.
The allocation of emission rights is already complicated enough.
Mr President, Parliament can point to some real gains from the deal negotiated with the Council to fast-track this legislation and avoid the conciliation procedure.
We look forward to the Commission coming back with plans to bring other greenhouse gases into the scheme and to extend its scope to include other industries.
We want this scheme to succeed, and if Member States are to start meeting their targets they must publish national allocation plans by March 2004.
Several Member States have expressed serious concern about this legislation and this has been reflected within all our political groups.
All those leading on the issue have faced a degree of resistance from some colleagues, but it is a tribute to the skill of our rapporteur that we have secured all-party support for this package.
I hope also that it will send out a very clear signal about our determination, both to the United States and to Russia - particularly to Russia - whose ratification of the Protocol is so important.
Then industry in the Member States might fall victim to the mechanism proposed by the United States of America, in which US industry is not involved and profits and losses depend crucially on the first administrative allocation of emission allowances.
Many Members, however, will vote in favour of the compromise amendments, because they are better than Parliament's report.
Mr President, what we seemed almost to have forgotten in the discussions was that we were all there when agreements were made in Kyoto and that this directive on emission trading was simply a good way of ensuring that the reduction tasks could be implemented in a very efficient manner.
The first is that emissions trading may of course have an effect on enterprises' balance sheets and end up being a factor in their shutting down production or moving it elsewhere.
I hope that you will have plenty of staff and plenty of courage to enable you, in the interests of workers, to discharge that responsibility.
Despite this lack of enthusiasm, I hope that the rapporteur is right when he says that this trade will correct the situation of non-compliance on the part of the majority of Member States - my own country is perhaps one of the worst offenders - and contribute to teaching European companies in preparation for 2008 when the international trade comes into effect, and, most importantly of all, may convince the United States to comply with the Kyoto Protocol.
We agree with the rapporteur on the need to include the six greenhouse gases, although the common position only establishes that, as of 2008, the Member States will be able to request their unilateral inclusion in the allowance trading system.
We believe it to be important that projects which relate to the mechanism for clean development and joint application should not be a replacement for prioritising emissions reductions, which must be achieved within the European Union.
The European market in emissions allowances will provide the Member States with an effective instrument within their climate change policies to close the gap between the true situation in the field of polluting emissions and compliance with the Kyoto commitments, while creating the best possible cost-benefit relationship.
The political importance of this directive is perhaps less obvious, but no less significant.
However, this agreement, which has been reached following long and difficult negotiations inside and outside Parliament and the Council, has lead to a much more open text, which is no less effective and is acceptable to everyone.
We needed a directive which was sufficiently flexible to allow the Member States to be able to adapt their requirements and operation to the characteristics of their national policies.
Mr Moreira, I hope that tomorrow we will be able to congratulate you and take pleasure in having been able to successfully take such an important step towards practice in the environmental field.
Mr President, I would sincerely like to acknowledge all those who have been involved in creating this compromise, which we will vote on tomorrow.
I wish to stress, however, that these last minute discussions and negotiations resulted in the unreasonable proposals that seemed to be included, such as a ceiling on national emission allowances, being taken out.
He has fought with much energy, determination and expertise for a good and practical system of greenhouse gas emissions trading.
I think we would have achieved more and could have got a better system if the Council and my own government in particular had been more constructive.
Unfortunately, some Member States, Germany among them, tried for a long time to torpedo the whole system and weaken it.
I think some problems are inevitable unless great care is now taken with national implementation and monitoring by the Commission.
The aim of the system is to cut the costs of compliance with the Kyoto Protocol and - much more important - to create an incentive for undertakings to develop new ways of saving energy and greenhouse gases.
We all know that coal can very easily be replaced by gas or other energy sources, but it is not so easy to cut CO2 emissions for lime, cement and steel.
Once it costs EUR 20 to 30 a tonne, the picture will be quite different and will naturally have effects on energy policy.
The national cap on allowances can start from the 2003 emissions level and not from that of 1990, provided that the allowances are decreased to the Kyoto figure by 2012.
Amendment No 43 is very important as it allows Member States to benchmark the best available technology for allowance allocation.
It is appropriate that provisions be made to deal with unforeseen circumstances during the pilot period of 2005 to 2007.
In the absence of market management mechanisms and taking into account the risks involved, the current force majeure clause could provide flexibility for Member States to cope with unforeseen events such as market failure, and avoid serious economic shocks.
In conclusion, the provision for banking 2005 to 2007 surplus allowances into the 2008 to 2012 period effectively reduces the number of allowances available for allocation in that period and will act as a constraint on Member States in applying force majeure.
When two or three years ago we had the Commission proposal before us, it started to become clear how enormous the gaps were in the proposal upon which we had been building a European strategy for the economy, competition and the environment.
There was no appraisal made of the impact of enlargement, no guidance given about how emission allowances could be accounted for in companies' books, no information regarding value added tax, not even a strategy in case of serious market problems or speculative attacks, no precise data on emissions in Member States, let alone emissions in companies, and no proposal regarding rights of appeal.
Much has been done to put things right, but whether or not we succeeded remains to be seen.
The 'trendline cap' problem in Trilog was solved with a formulation proposed by the Commission that allows Member States to approach the Kyoto targets along their own paths.
In being allowed room to move, Member States are also being encouraged to embrace a transport policy that is more responsible in terms of the Kyoto Agreement.
There is no sense in setting more stringent criteria than was agreed at Marrakech.
The emission allowance credits earned from the project-based mechanisms will also have an interesting impact on development cooperation.
Member States can take the potential for a reduction in process emissions into account, which in practice means that the best European steel factories can earn their full emission allowance quotas and they will not have to bear additional costs in a world steel market that has been fiercely competitive.
I am also convinced that we will need all the different tools we can find: legislation, as well as voluntary agreements and market-based instruments, like this one.
The transport sector consists of many small diffuse sources that we thought would be difficult to monitor, administer and control.
This has been important in designing this proposal, but we accept that transport also has to be subject of action when it comes to reducing the greenhouse gas emissions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
This happens in particular in Dutch companies and this chicken meat, if you can still call it chicken meat, is then sold in the UK as Halal to the Muslims and Kosher to the Jews.
In May 2002 the Irish and British authorities published the first worrying results of their investigations concerning chicken breasts imported from the Netherlands and intended for the catering industry.
The results published by the same authorities on 12 May 2003, show that the problem remains.
The practice of artificially increasing the weight of meat by the addition of protein and water - in some cases up to 40% or 50% water in the final product - in order to mislead the purchaser is despicable.
It appears that purchasers and, by association, consumers are being misled on three counts.
Second, some products have been labelled as Halal despite containing pig as well as other animal proteins.
Enforcement and possible sanctions arising from the infringements of legislation relating to the labelling of foodstuffs and unfair practices are the responsibility of Member States.
According to the information transmitted by the Irish and British authorities, the chicken products concerned are in the main manufactured in the Netherlands.
I have asked Member States to strengthen their controls and reinforce their cooperation.
In March of this year the Dutch authorities undertook to ensure that these products were correctly labelled.
However, inspection results from the UK and Irish authorities indicate that the problem of fraudulent labelling continues to exist.
I have therefore asked the Member States to improve collaboration between national authorities and to strengthen the controls.
The standing committee on the food chain and animal health composed of representatives of Member States welcomed this suggestion at its meeting on 8 April 2003.
The technical discussion will continue during the next committee meetings.
Mr President, I should like to say to the Commissioner that this has gone on for far too long.
I welcome the question, but what I would welcome even more is a promise of clear legislative action.
During the last of those years I have had correspondence and contact on their behalf, both with our national authorities and with the Commissioner's bureau.
This entire practice of adding water and, therefore, also other animal proteins to meats is misleading, deceptive and downright immoral in respect of its impact on some religious communities.
Whilst labelling might be one possible improvement, my understanding, as other speakers have said, is that the best answer would be a ban on the adding of water above, say, 15%.
I want to be able to go back to my home city - which is a large port through which much of this adulterated meat comes in - and tell our local authorities that they can now expect legislation to back up their long-running pursuit of this deceitful and harmful trade. .
My intention is to analyse the work that has been undertaken by my services, to determine what further work can be done.
I found that some of the labelling that was identified in the programme indicated that the particular product was 65% chicken.
As I said earlier, in my original answer, I am looking at this.
However, I also appeal for some consumer vigilance as a response to the work that we do here in relation to labelling.
The next item is the report (A5-0240/2003) by Mr Mulder, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the 2004 budget in view of the conciliation procedure before the Council's first reading [2003/2027(BUD)].
We shall therefore be spending the whole year working on a budget for probably 25 Member States and on this basis we shall be taking a political decision in December.
Apart from this point, Parliament has set a number of priorities for the agriculture budget in the form of pilot projects or preparatory actions.
Other points that we consider important are the development of better vaccines against infectious animal diseases and a quality policy for agricultural products.
We also think it interesting to hear precisely what the estimates have been that are given to the Commission by the Member States each year so that the Commission can draft a good budget.
Another important point for this budget: we want to promote economic development in the new Member States.
We think that this can for example be done through the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises and through investments in these new Member States.
I will not discuss all the points in the report right now - for reasons of time and because talks are continuing today and tomorrow.
I would like to begin by noting an important point of agreement; this is that we want to reach agreement on the budget for 25 Member States by December 2003.
Although the budget resolution can for the time being only be adopted formally for the budget for the EU of the 15, there should be complete agreement on the amending and supplementary budget for the 10 new states in December.
The Commission has made a proposal for the adjustment of the amounts, and this is now the subject of intensive discussions in the various parliamentary committees.
So far as the proposal for insurance for farmers against various risks is concerned, the Commission has commissioned a study of the matter and I am informed that the findings will probably be available this summer.
The Commission will then make the conclusions known and I hope I will be able to tell you more at Parliament's first reading.
The Commission has proposed an increase of 8.4% in the budget line for the common foreign and security policy, in order, among other things, to again fund the expenditure for the special envoys from this budget line.
I am actually proud to have been able to rescue the EUR 80 million margin, given the various things my colleagues wanted in this category.
If we make good use of this area for pilot projects and preparatory actions and cooperate as closely as we did last year, I think it will be possible to agree on good projects here.
But I would like to point out that last year, 2002, the Member States' estimates were 70% higher than the amount that was actually taken up.
Since all the institutions are making successful enlargement a matter of the highest priority, I am confident that a good solution will be found here, too. . (NL) As rapporteur for the budget in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, I am well aware that the budget consultation procedure between Council, Commission and Parliament traditionally focuses on three specific areas, that is agriculture, fisheries and the common foreign and security policy.
It is not really acceptable that the amount for the promotion of agricultural products for example has been reduced in the preliminary draft budget for 2004.
At the same time we have started on a different policy for outbreaks of animal diseases, for example the new policy for foot and mouth disease.
This is also the first budget for the Union of 25 Member States and in fact it is very strange that, converted to the structural funds, there is still less money available per head of population for the new Member States than for a number of existing Member States.
To summarise, Mr President, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development thinks that the money that is to be spent on rural development, in particular in the new Member States, must be expressly intended for strengthening the small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas.
The 2004 budget procedure is, however, unusual in two respects.
Secondly, we are faced with the unusual situation that from 1 January 2004 until 30 April 2004 the budget will apply to the present 15 Member States, but from 1 May 2004, the date of accession of ten new countries, it will apply to 25 Member States.
The situation is alarming.
In the light of the catastrophic state of fish stocks, last December the Council agreed, after much dragging of feet, to the reform of the common fisheries policy, not least because of clear promptings from Parliament.
I therefore call urgently for this point to be raised in the conciliation procedure beginning on 16 July, so that we can at least learn what position the Council takes on financing reform of the common fisheries policy.
I would like to say that our group, the PPE-DE, fully supports the strategy laid out by the general rapporteur with a view to the conciliation with the other two institutions.
If the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure were no longer made - and there is much in the Convention to suggest it will not be - then something Parliament has been advocating for many years would actually become reality and we would no longer need this advance mediation.
First, the move to increase support for rural areas provided that there is a stronger focus on those areas in the new Member States than we had in the EU of the 15; we expressly welcome this.
We will examine this without prejudice and we are willing to act, but we will of course not go blundering blindly into anything either, because we have to know what the long-term consequences might be.
Showing them a way out at this early stage would amount to killing the N+2 rule and we will not go along with that.
Mr President, the report before us on the conciliation procedure with regard to the 2004 budget presents a good picture of Parliament's main areas of focus.
The budget has also now been clearly presented as an activity-based one.
This system, however, should be improved, for example by including all administrative expenditure in the budget for each policy area, as the report points out.
Even so, I want to take this opportunity to mention a deep and widespread concern at the fact that the preliminary draft budget for 2004 is the smallest, in relative terms, since 1987.
Apart from the fact that the 2004 budget is dominated by the accession of an expected ten new Member States, we shall be using the activity-based budgeting tool for the first time.
I support Amendment No 2 to increase the resources for the fishing vessels scrapping fund.
He compares the EUR 32 million called for with a sum of money we once paid to Portugal and Spain and with which we now want to assist a few other states.
This money is for the entire European Union.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, a successful budgetary policy for the EU requires not only decisions on figures and budget items, for the EU has serious problems when it comes to implementing the budget.
An important part of Parliament's budget policy must therefore be about follow-up and evaluation and keeping track of the implementation of the budget.
After four months of 2003, total outstanding commitments - known as RAL - had increased to EUR 126 billion, compared with EUR 110 billion at the same time last year.
In the case of the 2003 implementation, the beginning of the year even shows a lower level than during the same period of 2002; in particular, category 3 and 4 commitments entered into in April were lower than at the same time last year.
The recent visit of our delegation to Bosnia, like a host of other contacts, also makes us worry that a lack of information about the new budgetary arrangements may have caused problems, for example for the external delegations.
It can have negative effects upon the benefits, in terms of efficiency, of the reform process and of decentralisation.
We regret that the Council did not accept our proposal concerning the account plan, which would have made the system significantly more open to inspection.
Because I do not just want to be critical, we can also observe that, for example, rural policy in actual fact exceeds our expectations when it comes to implementation.
On the other hand, we are pleased about the prompt agreement to activate EUR 79 million from the disaster aid reserve for Iraq, as well as about the new proposals concerning southern Africa and Ethiopia.
We only hope that the situation in Iraq and the Middle East does not give rise to such a degree of uncertainty in connection with the 2003 budget that it could entail problems for the other areas within external policy.
Finally, one of the basic problems we have when it comes to implementing the budget is that, overall, we have a rigid budgetary system that really needs to be modernised and altered.
I am glad that we can debate the matter properly here and I thank the rapporteur for his detailed report.
Apart from these weekly figures, you also receive a report three times a year commenting on the implementation of the budget and giving details in particular of so-called abnormal RALs, that is commitments the Commission entered into a very long time ago and commitments for which no payments have been made in the last three years.
The level of commitments entered into and which will result in corresponding expenditure in the next few years amounts now - at the end of June - to a total of EUR 122 000 million.
But I also agree that we must be careful not to label the total amount of RALs as abnormal because this year that is not correct.
First the question of the directorates general or policy areas to which the total 717 posts approved by the Budgetary Authority in 2001 and 2002 were allocated.
In the last few years we have strengthened the foreign policy area, among others, and also such implementing areas as, for example, regional policy or the growing area of justice and internal affairs.
Another point: what is the staffing plan for the Enlargement DG in 2004, after the accession of the ten new Member States?
The 2004 Budget assumes there will be an appreciable reduction in staffing, in the number of posts in this directorate general, a reduction of 105 posts in fact.
Regarding the state of budget execution this year, you also note that implementation is less than at the same time last year.
I would like to make a few special comments about budget implementation in the external fields.
The Budgetary Authority has approved EUR 79 million for humanitarian work in Iraq.
That cannot of course be the Commission's long-term strategy.
I now have a large number of complaints on the table where individual groups that are supposed to be supported out of the Community budget, as is stipulated in the rules on the matter, are faced with massive administrative problems in negotiations with the Commission, especially this year because of the new Financial Regulation.
As I mentioned earlier on, outstanding commitments stood at EUR 126 billion in April, which was an increase of over EUR 15 billion in one year.
These outstanding commitments were especially evident in the Structural Funds where they stood at EUR 94 billion, which is to say the amount for appropriations for almost three years.
The situation is grave.
The Commission should improve the way the N+2 rule is monitored and restore its original purpose.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, the European Parliament has already issued two resolutions on the question of child soldiers, one in 1999 and one in 2000.
Why use the procedure for urgent cases, then, to include on the agenda a recommendation for a new resolution, one which goes further, of course, since it extends not only to child soldiers, but to all forms of trafficking in children?
Every year, 1.2 million children are victims of a traffic which has now become a rapidly-expanding 'industry', worth almost EUR 3 billion per year.
The fight against this scourge - beyond comprehension in the twenty-first century - should be a cornerstone of European Union development policy.
The European Union calls on all states to ratify the optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and to hasten ratification of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which describes the conscription and recruitment of children under the age of 15 or their deployment in hostilities as a war crime.
At the political level, the European Union is endeavouring to find a common line on the problem of child soldiers.
In December 2002, the Council authorised the development of a strategy or guidelines on this subject.
UNICEF and other agencies then organised a meeting of experts on children's rights on 14 March 2003.
The recommendations made at that meeting stress among other things the importance of a pre- and post-conflict strategy and the necessity of making this subject a cross-sectional topic in the European Union's entire decision-making process.
Children are one of the three focal points of the ECHO strategy for the current year.
Then on 25 March 2003 the Commission decided to set up a group of experts on trafficking in human beings, which will assist the Commission in putting forward further concrete proposals at European level.
The group will in particular present the Commission with a report based on the recommendation of the Brussels declaration.
In 2002, more than EUR 1.7 million were used as part of the STOP II programme to finance 16 projects to combat trafficking in human beings and to combat sexual exploitation.
The TACIS and CARDS programmes also support projects to combat trafficking in human beings in east and southeast Europe, and an action plan against trafficking in human beings has also been developed as part of the EU-Africa dialogue.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, for that detailed response.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 12.38 a.m.)
