&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 26 May 2005. &#160;&#160; 15 years ago, the European Parliament awarded the Sakharov Prize to the Burmese opposition leader, Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi.
Human Rights Watch recently accused that regime of the systematic violation of human rights, torture and executions.
I therefore believe it appropriate, on behalf of this Parliament, for us all to renew our call for the release of Aung San Suu Kyi and her fellow political prisoners and express our complete condemnation of the abuses of the Burmese regime. &#160;&#160; The final version of the draft agenda for the June part-session as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of Wednesday 2 June pursuant to Rules 130 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
We also want to discuss the Council and Commission statements on Uzbekistan and then deal with a question on Philip Morris.
This would make it clear that this is not ‘business as usual’, but that we are focussing our attention on this major issue.
It would be appropriate if we were to do this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we would like to congratulate Mr Poettering, whom the weekend has brought to his senses.
I would ask that we stick with the 90-minute Question Time in future, which the Rules of Procedure guarantee as an individual MEP’s right. &#160;&#160; As you know, the item has not been removed from the agenda but rather its duration has been reduced.
Thirty-one Members have done so, and I am going to give them priority in these speeches. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am taking the floor on my own behalf and on behalf of Mr Pittella, Mr Yáñez and Mrs Madeira, to protest at the discrimination against Asturias, Murcia, Melilla, Ceuta, Basilicata and the Algarve in Mr Juncker’s documents.
The President-in-Office of the Council spoke in a very discerning way following the French referendum.
Mr Juncker, we place our trust in you. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, on Wednesday, the global campaign, Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative was launched.
Aids, malaria and TB are generally known problems.
Together with AIDS, TB and malaria, these diseases kill 14 million people each year, mainly in poor countries.
This time too, let us show how we can teach ourselves new concepts and take new initiatives to combat these afflictions. &#160;&#160; After the rejection of the European Constitution in the French and Dutch referenda, the idea of a united Europe, the principles of solidarity and access by the citizens of the new Member States to the EU 15 labour markets, which are closed to new members in the hope that restriction will protect them against competition, have become the most topical themes today.
A few days ago, on 1 June, the chairman of the Belarus Social Democratic Party and founder of Belarus’ European Movement was sentenced to three years in jail for doing nothing more than joining with others in demonstrating against the rigged presidential elections.
The biggest problem for those people who are by no means well-off is the impossibility of travelling to visit relatives in Hungary without visas, which cost quite a large sum of money.
Mr Hegyi, I call upon you as a member of the Hungarian Socialist Party not to mislead Parliament, but to appeal to your party colleagues in the government and to propose that they stop requiring that their own Hungarian people have visas in order to enter Hungary. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on 28&#160;April last year the President of France, Mr Jacques Chirac, said ‘If a country votes against the proposed Constitution, it must leave the European Union’.
I would like to ask, Mr President, whether you have yet received the French resignation. &#160;&#160; No, Mr Mote, I have not received it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the anti-European camp wants the constitutional ratification process to be discontinued.
Countries representing half the population of Europe have said yes.
I would suggest that France and the Netherlands might consider establishing national conventions of Europe, to consider exactly what kind of Europe they want.
The last resolution of this Parliament on Burma was very clear.
Aung San Suu Kyi is a Nobel Peace Prize winner and a recipient of the Sakharov Prize of this Parliament.
Thank you, Mr President, for your commitment to Aung San Suu Kyi and to the people of Burma. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of the House to a golden opportunity for us to demonstrate relevance to the people of Europe: the G8 summit at Gleneagles in my country, Scotland.
At this time of cynicism about the direction of the EU, it is an opportunity for us to march in step with the people of Europe.
Too often, EU trade policies have been the cause of problems within the developing world, not the solution.
I hope a million people come to Scotland and behave themselves.
I put this question because, in this sensitive period for the EU, I would like to promote the cause of all 25 Member States, regardless of when they joined the EU, in joining together to thrash out some sort of future for the EU. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the rejection of the European Constitution has overshadowed another event that is also significant, albeit somewhat less so.
The way in which the many Islamic communities in Europe are informed about terrorism is of crucial importance, and the media plays a huge role in this respect.
A good example of this is the television channel , which is popular amongst European Muslims.
The gravity of this situation should not be underestimated. &#160;&#160; As a member of the European Parliament’s fact-finding mission to Vojvodina, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the situation has not improved since the visit we made nearly six months ago – and especially not the situation of minorities there.
The reason behind all these incidents – as the investigating delegation from this Parliament also pointed out – is the fact that minorities are not proportionally represented in the Serbian judicial system or the police, or indeed in the public administration.
All of this raises the question of the responsibility of the European Parliament and Union institutions, because, for example, the Interreg CBC plans fail to give Vojvodina autonomous status – despite the fact that the province was autonomous until 1989 – and yet it complies with all the requirements laid down for NUTS2 regions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on September 16 the European Parliament adopted a resolution condemning the offences committed against minorities in the Serbian province of Vojvodina and, as a consequence of this, in late 2004, a delegation led by Mrs Doris Pack visited the province on a fact-finding mission.
I would ask the President to alert the European Commission to this problem, and to suggest that it should come up with solutions that would protect the EU market from being swamped by imported metal goods from China.
Many thanks. &#160;&#160; Mr President, for several months we have been hearing very worrying news from Sudan, specifically from Darfur.
In particular, the supposedly false report notes more than 500 cases of rapes of women in Darfur.
On behalf of several colleagues from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I would call for action, perhaps a letter from the President to the Sudanese authorities expressing Parliament’s concern about the events being condemned and calling for the release of Mr Foreman and Mr Hoedt without charge. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, in view of the huge influx of honey into the EU from third countries, and given the alarming reports from consumers about the poor quality of this honey, I believe that protective measures need to be taken.
In Germany, for example, numbers have dropped by 33% over the past 15&#160;years, and in Poland by 40% over the past 20&#160;years.
It is a minimal indication of democratic responsibility towards the civil society of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, for the last two years the British Government has funded ‘Operation Scrap-it’ with GBP&#160;7&#160;million – EUR&#160;11&#160;million – a year given to London boroughs to cope with the End of Life Vehicles Directive.
Through you, therefore, Mr President, I appeal to the British Government to prolong the funding of ‘Operation Scrap-it’ to stop an environmental crisis in London. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, according to confirmed reports, a meeting of neo-Nazi and fascist organisations from Greece, Italy, Spain and other countries of Central Europe and the USA is scheduled to take place from 16 to 18 September 2005, in the Meligala region in the prefecture of Messinia in the Peloponnese.
Especially today, when these forces are using the European Constitution as a pretext for undermining the values and principles on which we have built common, peaceful and democratic cohabitation and brotherhood in Europe.
The Greek Government should immediately ban this anti-democratic meeting.
This call should also be supported by the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to seize this opportunity to draw your attention again to a problem that I regret to say is still present, that being subsidies for the export of live animals.
Ever since export subsidies for the transportation of live animals were introduced in 1989, this House has on many occasions voted in favour of their removal from the EU budget.
Although the animals’ torments, particularly on journeys over long distances, and the resulting disadvantages for consumers, are a matter of general knowledge, their transportation continues to be subsidised to the tune of EUR&#160;41 million in 2001, EUR&#160;57 million in 2002, EUR&#160;67 million in 2003, and now the figure has reached EUR&#160;77 million per annum.
This House adopted it by the two-thirds constitutional majority.
It now seems, however, that the British Government will deny the British people that opportunity.
I would like, therefore, to continue my mission to name and shame Member States that have not implemented some of the Lisbon directives.
The European Parliament has passed 83&#160;Lisbon directives.
The European company statute directive should have been implemented by 18&#160;October 2004, but the following countries have yet to notify the Commission of their legislation implementing this directive: Belgium, Estonia, Greece, Spain, France, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal and Slovenia.
Mr President, would you write to those Member States and ask them when they intend to implement the directive? &#160;&#160; – Mr President, between the two part-sessions, we had a thunderous from both France and the Netherlands.
In the European Parliament, 62% of the French members voted .
We need to pay closer attention to the people.
I need only mention the fact that two leaders of the democratic opposition, Nikolai Statkevich and Pavel Severinets, were sentenced a few days ago to three years in a forced labour camp for organising anti-government demonstrations.
The drastic measures to which the Belarussian authorities have recently resorted are a clear indication of the fact that they fear their country will experience a repeat of the democratic revolution seen in Ukraine.
You are not listening but never mind, I shall carry on.
This afternoon I am asking you personally what your proposals for action in this field are, both in the short term and in the long term, or is it perhaps a question you prefer to avoid? &#160;&#160; I believe that the Treaty should be respected in every respect.
If we subscribe to the statement as it stands, something like half of Europe’s breeding cattle would be affected, and that would represent another major blow to Europe’s farmers, on top of the general economic stress. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I do not want to give the impression that I am anything other than an advocate of a peaceful and united Europe, but I do believe that, after the votes in France and the Netherlands, we cannot simply go on with business as usual.
I do not believe that the blame lies with the French and Dutch voters who voted against the Constitution, but rather with the Members of this House who voted to start accession negotiations with Turkey and in favour of the early accession of Romania and Bulgaria.
That is what we need to be talking about. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the light of the Constitutional referenda, I would hope that at last, in this House, there might be some recognition that the EU project is seriously flawed and heading in the wrong direction.
The international community is doing nothing about this.
The challenge of the proposal is to build a legal instrument that will be efficient in delivering the necessary energy transmission infrastructure, while developing the appropriate cooperation with the private sector and the Member States.
The security of energy supply and the functioning of the internal energy market are key policy issues.
The trans-European energy networks policy aims at securing and diversifying additional gas import capacity from sources in Russia, Norway, the Caspian basin region, Northern Africa and the Middle East, and providing the necessary interconnection capacity between Member States.
Since the adoption of the existing guidelines for trans-European energy networks in June 2003, the need has arisen fully to integrate the new Member States and candidate countries in these guidelines and further to adapt those guidelines to the new European Neighbourhood policy.
As to the choice of the projects, we have proposed to introduce a top-down approach, identifying the projects of highest priority on the priority axes from the larger family of projects of common interest.
Ladies and gentlemen, let me also express my deepest gratitude to my fellow rapporteurs for their opinions, which have been in my mind throughout my considerations and which have made a considerable contribution to the report that I am presenting today.
They are to adapt the guidelines to the shape of the European Union of 25 Member States, to authorise the financing of common-interest projects, to make it possible to create an internal market for gas and electricity and, principally, to ensure that there is security of supply via interconnections between the Member States and with neighbouring countries: south-east Europe, the Mediterranean countries, Ukraine, Belarus.
This approach to the trans-European energy networks corresponds, in fact, to the approach taken for the trans-European land transport networks.
A majority of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy supports the new ideas introduced by the European Commission to define the action priorities, particularly the description of projects of European interest located on high-priority routes and the appointment of a European coordinator, provided, however, that this is limited to complex projects that present particularly difficult implementation conditions and that it occurs in consultation with the Member States.
The report voted for by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy encourages the Member States to cooperate amongst themselves when this is made necessary by the implementation of transnational enquiry procedures taking into account decisive criteria, such as security of supply, the project’s impact on the environment, the opinion of the inhabitants of the territory concerned, and so on.
Thus, the report voted for by the Committee on Industry establishes a hierarchy of projects: common-interest projects that form the basis of the trans-European projects are listed in Annex&#160;III and priority projects described as projects of European interest are listed in Annex&#160;I.
Before I finish, I would also like to stress the fact that the Committee on Industry views the inclusion of the transport of olefins in this text as justified not only in view of the importance of such networks in Europe for the European chemical industry, but also in view of the gains in terms of safety and the environment that would result from a reduction in road transport.
I think it is also necessary to consider the integration of the trans-European energy networks into the European corridors that have been proposed for the land transport sector. &#160;&#160; .
I would, however, like to draw your attention to a few aspects which might stand in the way of achieving the tasks advanced in the directive.
Therefore, the choice of the priority interconnection elements of trans-European networks which will be created with the financial support of the European Union should not only be a matter for commercial competition between regions and Member States, as appears from the approach offered by the directive.
When making its choice of priority network elements, the European Commission must be guided by the interests of medium-term and long-term security of supply and the creation of the European Union internal market.
This ought to be a priority task, a priority area where interconnections should be created. &#160;&#160; .
Madam President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Laperrouze and thanking her for her spirit of cooperation during the production of this report.
As has been pointed out, following the informal three-way dialogue with the Council and the Commission, it was not possible to reach an agreement with Parliament at first reading.
It only remains for me to applaud the Commission’s proposal for a Regulation, which is being debated, on the funding of the trans-European transport and energy networks.
I trust that this will be taken into account when establishing the financial perspectives for 2007-2013 because, if the budgetary allocation is reduced, this and all of the European Union’s programmes, such as Rural Development, Life, Trans-European Networks and the Seventh Framework Research Project, will be negatively affected. &#160;&#160; .
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with warm thanks to Mrs Laperrouze for the splendid work she has done and above all for the collegial spirit in which all groups were enabled to have input into the report.
When such an important pipeline is built in a region covered by the European Union’s neighbourhood policy, connecting a potential Member State of the European Union, or at any rate a country with candidate status, I would have liked the photograph to include you – not just because I like seeing you in pictures, but because it would have had symbolic significance for the European public, indicating that this European Union of ours cares just as much about energy as does the administration of the United States.
There are two other things I would like to mention.
To recapitulate, I believe that energy supply is vital to our continent’s competitiveness, that we need a diversity of sources of energy, including those from outside the EU, and I hope that Commissioner Piebalgs will be able to be present the next time an important pipeline is opened, thereby demonstrating the importance of energy supply to Europe. &#160;&#160; .
A possible solution for the assurance of security of the gas supply at the cross-country level has been on our minds for quite a time, as well as the solutions for the security and diversification of the supply to the Baltic region of the European Union.
The speaker has also noted this matter in her speech today.
The 2nd project of the Yamal-Europe gas pipeline fails to meet the provisions for gas supply safety as it crosses the territory of Belarus, and we should remember the blocking of the gas supply via Belarus in February 2004.
The decision we reach concerning these guidelines will determine the future development of a modern infrastructure for trans-European energy networks.
I would like to use this short speech to highlight something that matters particularly to me, namely the decision to incorporate, for the first time, what are known as olefin gas pipelines into the trans-European energy networks.
The TEN-E networks in the energy sector will play an important role in the liberalisation of the internal market and in improving operational reliability, as they will enable the EU to connect to suppliers outside the Union.
Transport networks are part of the general infrastructure, whereas the TEN-E networks are in private ownership.
In any case, this sum of money is so small for the Union’s energy networks that it will not be a critical factor when investment decisions are being made.
However, we should be very honest in looking at the trans-European networks in the energy field.
From this point of view, I cannot accept that there should be no policies at the European level.
There have been advocates from the Baltic States for particular projects.
However, the PowerBridge Project between Lithuania and Poland will never be a reality unless there is Community support for trans-European networks in energy.
Four countries have signed the Treaty.
The Commission could not do so, but we are interested in this project because it concerns oil that that will be used by customers.
At the same time, as I mentioned, the main sources of investment are from private investors.
Therefore the private investors should invest in the project and the Commission, through these guidelines, should provide the necessary political input.
We will continue our work.
I wish to thank Parliament again for its very close cooperation. &#160;&#160; That concludes the debate.
I would also like to thank the other members of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy who have drafted amendments and worked to improve the Commission proposal.
Many of these amendments will strengthen and add coherence to the proposal.
As you know, I consider energy efficiency in the Union to be a priority area for Community energy policy.
I am gratified that the European Parliament strongly shares this view.
The proposal for a directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services can prove to be one of the most effective tools at our disposal, not only as a means of combating climate change and improving competitiveness, but for improving our security of supply, increasing employment within the EU and establishing a viable market for energy efficiency.
Two issues that were discussed extensively in the European Parliament and in the Council were the compulsory character of the targets and the measurement systems for energy efficiency achievements.
Throughout the debates in Parliament and in the Council, the Commission has maintained its position on the importance of mandatory targets, for both the overall target and for the public sector target.
As regards measuring efficiency, Mrs Rothe’s report points out that a system with bottom-up measurement provides the necessary accuracy and robustness and can be further developed with comitology.
I will have the opportunity later to comment in more detail on the amendments put forward to this House but I would like already to say that the Parliamentary debates in committee have been extremely constructive, and that we have appreciated in particular the efforts of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs in developing a coherent and consistent report, with many constructive amendment proposals.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that the Commission should present this proposal for a directive on energy efficiency and energy services was a matter of urgent necessity.
This House had already, and repeatedly, called on the Commission to respond to the creation of the single internal market in electricity and gas by proposing concrete measures to deal with demand, the minimal use we at present make of what is almost our largest energy resource being indefensible.
None of the Member States will find it difficult to make energy savings of between 3% and 4.5% by means of concrete measures over a period of three years.
I am confident that this House’s vote tomorrow will send a clear message to the Council, and will call on it not to take refuge in the ‘take it or leave it’ approach.
I would like to take this opportunity to say a really very big thank you to the shadow rapporteurs – Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca, Mrs Hall, and Mr Turmes – for their cooperation, which was really excellent and also resulted in the drafting of a compromise, which we are putting before you.
We have already put before you a compromise providing, in the first instance, for binding targets to be applicable, to be followed by the setting of benchmarks in all areas, which – time-consuming and far from simple though this will be – will enable the targets to be met. &#160;&#160; .
Madam President, first of all I should like to thank Mrs Rothe for the dedication she has shown in producing this report.
Secondly, it is important for SMEs – which make a considerable contribution in reducing energy consumption – to be guaranteed a major role in the market.
Thirdly, this leads the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to believe that we must promote a cost-effective approach.
The energy services directive is intended to supplement the directive on emissions trading by directing savings measures to areas beyond its scope and to continue the energy savings process among end-users.
As the person delivering the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, I myself had hoped that this would have provided an opportunity to correct the problems and distortions of competition which the directive on emissions trading contains.
Now there is much that is good about the directive, for which I wish to thank Mrs&#160;Rothe, but I shall address its biggest problem.
I opposed common savings targets for all Member States to the very last, because I believed they would punish countries in which energy saving measures had already been undertaken for a long time.
For that reason, I would have liked to refer the Article relating to savings obligations back to the Commission so that a system that takes account of each country’s different potential for saving energy might be created.
Some countries have been set a very tough target; others, on the other hand, a ridiculously easy one.
In a common market, it is a matter of the distortion of competition when measures that have already been implemented are insufficiently taken into consideration and Member States are not given enough latitude.
Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Rothe and all the shadow rapporteurs who have participated in the production of the report for their willingness to seek points of agreement.
As Mrs Rothe has already explained, after a long negotiation we have reached a satisfactory agreement on the proposal for a Directive.
I believe that this compromise demonstrates the enormous importance that all of us who have participated in the discussion attach to the issue of energy efficiency, as well as considerable agreement on the objectives of this piece of legislation.
Security of supply and fulfilment of the objectives we have established in relation to climate change, not to mention those laid down in the Lisbon Agenda, oblige us to take a multi-dimensional approach to energy policy.
It is also important to make it clear that the ultimate purpose of this directive is not exclusively to reduce consumption, since in countries in which there are significant sources free of emissions it is perfectly acceptable to take a more flexible approach which is more in line with their economic growth needs.
The proposals for energy saving targets, in particular, are even tougher than those in the Commission’s proposal.
The fact is, however, that the position of the Member States in this respect varies considerably from one to another.
An annual 1% savings target is therefore unfair, because for Finland that would mean increasing the present costs of financing energy saving by 450 million to a billion euros.
By 2020, Europe will be 90% dependent on Russia for oil.
The easiest way to lessen our energy dependency is by using less energy.
When I look at what the Berlin Energy Agency has achieved in energy efficiency, for example, then I wish people would follow Berlin’s example.
I am sure that Mr Piebalgs will be the first Commissioner in Europe to act rather than only talk. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the province of Upper Austria, from which I come, must surely be the world’s market leader in energy efficiency, and we have always concentrated on making that energy efficiency as economic as possible, in other words making it meet the Lisbon criteria.
Consumers and governments save on their energy bills, and energy-efficient companies become more competitive.
Innovation is the key word here and I unreservedly endorse the top runner principle in Amendment 96.
Critics who view this proposal as needless interference from Brussels in their domestic affairs forget the unfortunate fact that, without external pressure, too little is done in order to make our energy consumption more efficient, but I think that Mr Piebalgs’ top down approach should be complemented by its opposite.
Amendment 45 challenges enterprises to come up with all kinds of proposals on more efficient energy consumption.
Governments are ideally placed to make investments in energy efficiency that are unprofitable in the short term but that are recovered in the longer term.
In this context, I also think that we as European institutions have an additional responsibility.
The outcome could be presented to the public and press during next year’s Green Week, and, while I am on this subject, I should like to say that I think there is room for an improvement of over 30% in the new Parliament building. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, as things stand in the market, and in light of the supply model in most EU countries, we will only be able to achieve a sustainable European energy policy if there is a considerable increase in energy end-use efficiency.
This issue is all the more crucial given the fact that energy efficiency levels are known to vary a great deal between the Member States.
The model proposed by the Commission is based on rules that are clearly laid down, yet it is also sufficiently flexible and workable, and will encourage the 25 Member States to save energy.
Proposing more ambitious targets for energy saving – and structuring those targets on three different levels – enshrines active intervention on Parliament’s part.
This sends out a clear message to the Council that the Union’s energy policy aims are being complied with.
For example, if you type in your postcode on their website you can find out who is your cheapest supplier.
I hope implementation of this directive will be fast-tracked in Britain to make it easier for consumers to play their part in reducing energy consumption and tackling climate change.
Climate change is one of the fundamental challenges facing us today and it is vital that we reduce carbon emissions across Europe to help meet this challenge.
This directive will enable people and businesses to assess accurately the environmental and financial impacts of their energy consumption and make informed choices on how to reduce such impacts.
I would also like to thank Mrs Wortmann-Kool and Mrs Korhola for their contribution to this well-prepared report.
In some cases doubts have been expressed about the need for energy efficiency, at least in the form proposed.
Sometimes it is perceived that energy efficiency is against the Lisbon goals or against our competitiveness.
Regarding mandatory targets, I very much welcome Parliament’s approach.
First of all, we do not have very good experience with indicative targets; but secondly, in the energy efficiency area as it relates to all areas, mandatory targets are providing a sustainable policy.
I think it gives some necessary flexibility, but at the same time 3, 4 or 5% with a bottom-up approach means a lot.
If we compare, for example, new and old Member countries, the energy consumption per capita in the new Member countries is lower.
There has been less debate on energy services, but I think that this part of the directive is also very important.
There have been some very good proposals from the Parliament, some of which could be acceptable.
There are some very important issues relating to best practices.
Each Member State can find something it has done in the energy efficiency area that could be used in other Member States.
So it is very important at a European level, but also at Member State, regional and local levels because energy efficiency is an aspect of each of the operations or uses of energy using the equipment that we have.
That is now the big challenge. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Mr Bösch, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on protecting the Community’s financial interests and fight against fraud (2004/2198(INI)) (A6-0151/2005). &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although this report relates specifically to the budget year 2003, it is not intended as a snapshot; rather, it seeks to analyse failings and their causes over a longer period of time, to understand trends and learn from them for the future.
We in the Committee on Budgetary Control are not contemporary historians; what we want to do here in this House is to prepare documents and adopt reports that will ultimately help to improve the fight against fraud and to improve the situation for European taxpayers.
I would also like to say to those taxpayers here today that we must clearly understand, to take only one example, that so long as we have policies like the payment of export refunds in agriculture, there will be fraud.
The year 2003 saw a slight decline in reported irregularities and fraud compared with the previous year: EUR 922 million compared to 1.15 billion.
Between 1971 and 2004, EUR 3.1 billion of irregularities were reported in agriculture, only around one fifth of which were recovered.
The blame rests clearly with the Member States, and the European Parliament must make that clear.
European money obviously ranks differently with the Member States than their own money.
We learn that cigarette smuggling is causing us tremendous losses, that the Member States are not cooperating with the European Union as much as they ought and that the Member States, and their finance ministers in particular, are still clinging to an incorrect and dangerous tax policy, always increasing tobacco duties when they need to plug a gap in national tax revenues.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Bösch, for his constructive work.
Next I will address some of the issues that I would like to examine in greater detail.
First, in connection with the returning of payments, I welcome the responsibility of the Member States in this matter, as emphasised in the conclusions.
The Commission is grateful for comments concerning the work of the joint working group formed between OLAF and the Directorate General for Agriculture in connection with cases of the returning of funds connected with the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund, where Member States have made an application before 1999 concerning possible fraud or irregularities.
The report notes the cooperations agreements concluded between Philip Morris International and the Swiss Confederation as successful examples.
Both have been visible and tangible results in the struggle against fraud.
I am grateful for complimentary comments and the support of the rapporteur in dealing with these cases.
The Commission finds that all of the other Member States could accede to the agreement.
I also hope that the agreement concluded with Phillip Morris will serve as an example for the conclusion of similar agreements.
In light of the upcoming hearing of OLAF in Parliament, the Commission and Parliament await the Court of Auditors’ report concerning the results of the management audit performed at OLAF.
This primarily concerns comments about the institutional organisation of OLAF and its complicated role in communicating with Member States’ corresponding organs and European Union institutions.
At the hearing, which will take place in Parliament at the beginning of July, we will have the opportunity to examine the structure and organisation of OLAF in detail.
I am grateful to you for organising the hearing, and I hope that the upcoming hearing will help us to find the best solutions for the development of OLAF.
The Commission will attempt to do all in its power to ensure that the implementation of the conclusions of both this and previous reports correspond to the wishes of Parliament. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, the protection of the financial interests of the Communities, which is directly linked to the fight against fraud, constitutes a duty which is divided up between all of us, on the one hand, and the reasonable protection and expectation of citizens and society, on the other.
Combating fraud must be considered a national and Community priority, not only of an economic but also of a cultural nature.
The mid-term review of the CAP and the simplification promised are a positive starting point for the application of effective control and transparent management systems.
The application of new systems for managing the common market organisations depends on an additional effort by the Member States, who must always keep a more beneficial ratio between costs and anticipated benefits in mind.
To close, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his integrated proposal on the question of combating fraud and protecting the interests of the European Union. &#160;&#160; . – As is clearly stated in the report in front of us, there is still much to do in the fight against fraud, especially when it comes to cigarette smuggling and use of European Union funds.
I think, however, that it would not be right if we did not acknowledge the useful work being done in the fight against fraud, even, for example, in the new Member States where substantial progress on this matter has been noted by the national authorities.
I would also like to welcome the useful work being done by OLAF, which is instrumental in this fight, and it is good to note that, at last, we are reaping the harvest of the investment we made by establishing OLAF.
I am very much afraid, however, that there are still many who are trying to hinder the work of this office.
Instead, on behalf of Hungary, as a new Member State, and all the new Member States, I would like to emphasise the concrete significance for us, both in theoretical and practical terms, of protecting the European Union’s financial interests and fighting fraud.
We, too, participate in the expenditure of EU budgetary resources by Member States; the body responsible for ensuring the lawful and efficient use of EU funds is currently being developed and consolidated.
We, too, are participating in this process in a concrete way and we support its efforts to protect the EU’s financial interests and to fight fraud and corruption.
Moreover, as a general matter of principle, the kind of example the new Member States and institutions have before them is not merely a minor issue for us.
Here in Brussels or in Strasbourg, a Moloch of rules is coming into being – rules that are completely unintelligible, utterly incomprehensible, and with which we do not want to be associated in any way.
One of this report’s conclusions is that the number of isolated cases of fraud and irregularities in structural funds is going up.
There are two points of particular interest to which I should like to draw your attention this evening.
The first one is the responsibility of the Member States, which, let us not forget, manage 80% of all European aid, which gives us every right to ask more commitment of them, meaning, above all, extra efforts in reporting possible irregularities and cases of fraud.
Next Wednesday, we will be questioning the Council and the Commission about the agreement that was concluded with tobacco giant Philip Morris who, for the next 12 years, will be paying USD 1.25 billion into an EU account.
I congratulate the Commission and OLAF, the anti-fraud office, on the exemplary way they have worked together to bring this about.
As Mr Mulder pointed out, the past referenda taught us that people have doubts about the European Union.
Finally, if you, Mr Bösch, say that we should abolish export subsidies and for the reason that it is a scheme that is very susceptible to fraud, then you will know that you can rely on me as an ally.
The Commission and this House – the European Parliament – are at the bottom of the list.
There are many politically committed people such as ourselves who wish to rescue the European integration project from the attempts to create a European superstate.
The attempts to push the EU towards being a United States of Europe without popular support now threatens the survival of the integration project.
At the same time, our work in the Committee on Budgetary Control shows how difficult it is to get on top of fraud.
Money disappears year in and year out via agricultural policy and regional policy.
This cannot be allowed to continue, and it is now Commissioner Kallas’s responsibility to ensure that this development does not continue into the future and undermine the little confidence in the EU that the EU’s population still has left. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am also able to give my full support to Mr&#160;Bösch’s report, which is both constructive and perceptive.
The way Mr&#160;Bösch expressed this was to say that EU money has a different value in the Member States than the Member States’ own money.
The second problem is that EU legislation and administration is still not good enough.
Someone denounced reporter Hans-Martin Tillack, claiming he had paid money for confidential documents from inside the Commission.
Tillack still has not got the confiscated documents back.
Such information was also used in this report.
For my part, I will continue to fight and to ensure that OLAF is forever an effective and impartial instrument, acting in defence of the legality and the financial interests of the European Union.
The crisis that Europe is going through today in the eyes of the citizens calls on us all to behave with the utmost responsibility. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Bösch, I should firstly like to congratulate you, as others have already done.
I should nevertheless like to point out that, on the one hand, OLAF must pay very careful attention to this report and that, on the other, Parliament and our rapporteur must pay due respect to OLAF.
I hope that OLAF has similar respect for its supervisory committee, given that under no circumstances must OLAF’s indispensable independence be confused with self-sufficiency, which would be extremely detrimental to the functioning of our institutions.
I should therefore like to ask you, Commissioner, to declare to this House that you are ready to accede to our request by 31&#160;October. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to continue quoting from : ‘There is no one who can stand in Franz-Hermann Brüner’s way.
We must create an institution that is a beacon of trust and which helps us to dispel the shadow of suspicion, which is everywhere in the European institutions, not only concerning OLAF, but all issues.
I am happy to hear that there is a clear understanding about the responsibility of Member States in all these matters.
We are preparing certain proposals to strengthen our single audit model as part of the integrated control framework.
So far the response to these proposals has been very positive in several Member States, but not in all.
We deeply regret this and will try to find other ways to increase cooperation between Member States.
The issues raised by Mr Fazakas clearly show how the lack of a proper cooperation mechanism makes it difficult to achieve effective results.
Judiciaries in the different Member States examined these issues in very different ways, giving priority to different aspects.
We can never avoid bad things, but the question, in a democratic society, is how we handle such cases and how we develop a systemic response capable of dealing with all possible nasty surprises. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Mrs Brepoels, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing an infrastructure for spatial information in the Community (INSPIRE) (COM(2004)0516 – C6-0099/2004 – 2004/0175(COD)) (A6-0108/2005). &#160;&#160; .
If we are to shape a good environmental policy, then we need to have good information.
INSPIRE will help to remove these barriers by forcing government agencies to improve documentation and ensure that their data systems are interoperable.
In this way, the infrastructure of knowledge will be improved not only for environmental policy, but also in other policy areas which use the same geographical data.
Over the last six months, intensive discussions have been held between the three institutions in a bid to achieve agreement at the first reading of this subject.
This applies to the European Union in general – as we have noticed at the referenda on the Constitution – but also to all Community policy areas, in particular.
In order to eliminate those shortcomings now, the Commission has made a proposal to set up and run an infrastructure for spatial information in Europe, which has been abbreviated to ‘Inspire’.
I can tell you, Commissioner, that we are right behind the proposal’s objectives and principles, because Inspire also seeks to give the public more insight into environmental policy and, in this respect, to increase the level of accountability at local and regional level.
The proposal relates to information needed to supervise the state of the environment, but also to improve on it, and can therefore benefit all policy measures that have a direct or indirect impact on the environment.
We in this House thought we should make a number of constructive and useful amendments to this rather technical proposal in order to accommodate a number of justified concerns on the part of the current operators in the field, without, however, losing sight of the ultimate goal.
Finally, with a view to respecting the division of competence within the Member States, we also suggested a few changes, because we deem it important that the governments that collate this spatial information – those are, in many cases, the regional and local governments – are also involved in the coordination of the infrastructure and are also responsible for the contacts with the European Commission.
A number of compromise amendments were tabled to ensure that Parliament’s position is coherent and unambiguous.
The informal talks with Coreper have already clarified and crystallised a number of ideas for the future.
It must also be clear, however, that if the data is not merely to be consulted but is to be used commercially a fee must be payable; anything else would not be fair to the very people who will have to produce the data, in particular local and municipal authorities.
The comitology procedure called for by the Commission should therefore only be used in exceptional cases.
The public has a right to know precisely how and where decisions have been taken and, above all, what the reasons for them were.
I therefore do not have the least doubt about the usefulness of this new instrument, which is fundamental to the drawing up, application, monitoring and evaluation of environmental policies at all levels and of policies or activities that may have a direct or indirect impact on the environment.
We in my group are therefore pleased that the Member States can guarantee the interoperability between spatial information systems and, in this way, eliminate the obstacles that still exist.
One important aspect, which I would like to refer to, is that of funding.
Furthermore, I believe it is appropriate to base the Community infrastructure on the spatial information infrastructures established and managed by the Member States, in full application of the subsidiarity principle, but amongst those infrastructures, particularly when the Member States, such as mine, have several levels of public administration.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe endorses the report, insofar as it represents a very significant coordination effort between the Member States.
The Commission can carry out a far more important role.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance would like to emphasise that our citizens must have the right freely to access information that is relevant to their lives and health on, for example, environmental pollution, even if many polluters of the environment, for example, would not like it.
Inspire puts all that at risk and will undermine its successful commercial operation.
The British Government should have told the EU to get lost.
Perhaps the growing torrent of damaging legislation imposed on the United Kingdom might help to bring the British Government and its people to their senses and bring forward the day of Britain’s unconditional withdrawal from the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the success of the Community’s environmental policy depends very much on the availability of reliable scientific data and the trouble-free transmission of that data.
The availability of spatial data is a necessary precondition for scientific evaluation conducted on the basis of environmental legislation.
The purpose is to provide a knowledge base to take decisions on policies relating to the environment and in this way promote sustainable development.
The Community has various instruments at its disposal to help improve access to reliable data, in particular public sector data, in the first place, and later standardise it to make it comparable at Community level.
The most important objective is to reduce obstacles that hamper the shared use of data, particularly environmental data, among public authorities.
I myself think it is very important that in establishing a spatial data infrastructure we should focus specifically on environmental policy, in which case there would be practical grounds for the centralisation of information. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the proposal for a directive on INSPIRE lays down rules for the establishment of a spatial information infrastructure for the purposes of implementing Community environmental policies in the Member States.
The principles and goals underlying these tasks, or in other words classification, standardisation and the establishment of an EU-wide database, would merit closer consideration if it were not for the fact that many European countries are currently experiencing political and economic problems as a result of rising unemployment and slow economic growth.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Salinas García for underlining the fact that the benefits of Inspire will by far outweigh the cost.
In particular, it does not in any way affect the principle of co-existence or ownership of intellectual property rights.
Nevertheless, to answer some of Mr Batten’s concerns, the proposed directive explicitly allows public authorities to charge for data to be downloaded by the public.
This is indeed a technical directive and many of the detailed rules, for example on how to ensure interoperability between data systems, can only be decided at expert level.
Generally, I am very pleased to say that I can accept a large majority of the amendments proposed, at least in principle.
A few of the amendments aim to clarify the obligations on public authorities in relation to public access and data selling and to provide safeguards for data providers in relation to intellectual property rights.
Some amendments introduce other clarifications and can be accepted, while a number of others require some rewording or further clarification, so can only be accepted in principle.
There are just six amendments that we cannot accept.
While we have no problem with this in substance, it would create substantial obligations on Community institutions and bodies and this cannot be done in the context of a directive.
Amendments 52, 53 and 54 give Member States more time to implement certain provisions of the directive.
Delaying the implementation of key provisions will, however, also delay the benefits that will result from their implementation, an option which is not favoured by the Commission. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report by Mr Skinner, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on reinsurance and amending Council Directives 73/239/EEC and 92/49/EEC and Directives 98/78/EC e 2002/83/EC (COM(2004)0273 C6-0038/2004 2004/0097(COD)) (A6-0146/2005). &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking Mr Skinner, the rapporteur, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for their excellent work on this important subject.
Although it is not very well known to the public, the reinsurance sector is very important for the financial and insurance markets in the European Union and internationally.
This proposal provides a regulatory framework for insurance activities in the Community.
It is, in fact, the same regulatory framework already used for the completion of the single market in insurance and other financial services.
The proposal could also be a useful preparation for reinsurance undertakings for the introduction of Solvency II, relating to the revision of current supervisory rules for direct insurance undertakings, in a few years’ time.
The concerns expressed by the House have been eliminated largely because of the agreement and the good work that has gone into it.
This is a business-to-business directive as well.
That question then led us to another: the timing of this directive.
Other issues included SPVs, the insolvency issue and captives.
Without going into detail on those, I can say that we now have a level playing field at European level.
Thus it will help EU reinsurance undertakings to maintain their competitive edge around the world.
In fact, Europe is the second largest market in itself, after the US.
Europe needs to play a role in the rest of the world.
As has also already been mentioned, the harmonisation and liberalisation the directive seeks to introduce will further strengthen the competitive position of European reinsurance and Europe as a whole as a financial centre.
I would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Skinner, for his close cooperation; we all hope that the next time such an important resource is debated there will be more time in the committees and longer to prepare. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I would like to thank Peter Skinner for the work he has done, especially as the person responsible for Solvency I.
The planned directive will ensure that reinsurance undertakings operate under the same competitive conditions throughout the EU while at the same time not preventing direct insurance undertakings from assuming reinsurance risks.
If this system of mutual recognition is to operate without damage to direct insurers in a host country and under the same conditions of competition throughout the EU, the transposition of the directive into national law must be harmonised in a similar way as with banks, and national supervisors must cooperate as regards their methods of supervision.
The recent American International Group scandal in the US has exposed the extensive control and disclosure shortcomings in relations between direct insurers and reinsurers.
In one of my amendments I therefore called on the Commission and national insurance supervisors to cooperate more closely with the International Association of Insurance Supervisors to get standards of corporate governance and internal controlling procedures extended.
In consequence, the reinsurance directive is the only financial services directive that makes no distinction between the risk weightings of any government bonds and does not differentiate on the basis of the state’s rating or of whether or not the bond issuer is an EU or OECD Member State.
This directive takes us firmly in the right direction.
As the name suggests, natural disasters are unpredictable and hence carry a very high risk, although it is sometimes the case that such disasters do not occur for many years.
Mr President, I wish to begin by apologising to Mr Skinner and other MEPs for being unavoidably delayed due to traffic congestion and a Competitiveness Council meeting in Luxembourg.
Mr Skinner also raised the issue of collateralisation.
The EU insurance industry would particularly like to see the American collateralisation system abolished or amended.
I have had discussions recently with my United States counterparts with a view to eliminating or reducing the US collateralisation requirement and those discussions are ongoing.
It is something that comes from the strength of this report and it is worth pressing this point with the Commissioner, to make sure that we have full agreement across the floor so that a Commissioner and Parliament will be pressing most strongly to push the Americans further into the corner and see whether or not we can get the agreement from them that we really deserve. &#160;&#160; .
At least in the Member States of the European Union you can go to one regulatory supervisor in the Member State, you can go to the European Union for this particular directive; but in the United States each state has responsibility in this area and each state appoints its own insurance commissioners.
But then it all broke down, because the insurance commissioners change on a pretty regular basis in the United States.
But I would like to underline the difficulties, which are mostly related to the issue to which I have just referred. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0145/2005) by Mrs&#160;Schierhuber, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) (COM(2004)0490) – C6-0181/2004 – 2004/0161(CNS)). &#160;&#160; .
I wish to begin by thanking Mrs Schierhuber and the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for all their work on this report.
I shall comment only on some of the major points.
Some amendments reduced the minimum percentages of funding for the three axes, maintained the proposed funding for LEADER and eliminated the reserve for this approach.
I understand this need and I also welcome the fact that the European Parliament agrees on the need for minimum percentages.
Please do not forget that measures under Axis 3, if used correctly, could contribute significantly to promoting economic growth and job creation in rural areas.
Other amendments bring together the strategic and operational planning and reduce reporting procedures to two reports for the whole financial period – Amendments 34 to 41.
The Commission is in principle prepared to accept or partially accept amendments on: the inclusion of the conservation of genetic diversity, the inclusion of payments linked to the Water Framework Directive, not to consider the requirements for pesticide and fertiliser use as additional to mandatory requirements but as part of them, a more flexible approach towards the duration of agri-environmental commitments, the eligibility of high nature value areas among non-productive investments, and the inclusion of loss of income criteria for Natura 2000 payments in forestry.
Finally, some of the proposed amendments are difficult to accept for various reasons.
In conclusion, I can accept or partially accept some of the fundamental amendments proposed in your report.
I wish to thank the Members of the European Parliament again for their positive and constructive contribution to European rural policy. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking in return the Commission, all the members of the Committee, all the Groups, and especially the Council, the secretariats, all their staff and all those who helped them do the groundwork, for working together so well.
Over half the population of the European Union lives in rural areas, which account for around 90% of its territory.
The 2003 reform of the common agricultural policy introduced lasting changes in European agriculture and forestry.
This report contains the 2007–2013 programming period for rural development.
Rural development is important for all Member States, but for the new States in particular.
The fact is that we need this sort of interdisciplinary cooperation and we need willingness to cooperate in rural areas.
We concluded that in order to preserve subsidiarity it is important to reduce the appropriations for the axes, that is 10, 20 and 8.
It is also important that Parliament will be sending the Council and Commission an important political signal if a majority in this House adopts this.
I was always concerned that this report should cover both northern and southern regions, both eastern and western.
This report also clearly acknowledges that the CAP reform’s modulation releases money that should be used primarily for Axes 1 and 2.
I know that the Commissioner agrees with me on the need for support for young farmers.
A policy for rural areas is a policy for the entire population in all of Europe’s regions and is the way to ensure they will survive.
Finally, three amendments were tabled for plenary.
With regard to the funding of NATURA 2000, which Mrs Schierhuber has also referred to, the report calls for an increase in the resources allocated, since the Commission has on several occasions rejected our proposal to provide NATURA 2000 with its own financial instrument.
The thing that surprised me in particular about the French ‘no’ was the fact that 70% of French farmers had voted against the draft European Constitution.
The main focus of the EU’s agricultural policy is moving in the direction of rural development, as direct subsidies and market measures have been strictly confined to the framework of the Brussels compromise, as it is known.
In all, more than 11 billion a year has been set aside for rural development in the EU’s future financial frameworks.
The Commission proposed that measures should be targeted at three policies: the improved competitiveness of agriculture and forestry, land management, or enhancement of the countryside and the environment, and the diversification of the rural economy and enhancement of the quality of life in rural areas.
The Commission proposed that a certain minimum amount of financing should be allocated to each policy.
The committee reduced these threshold amounts to the lowest value possible, because Member States have to be guaranteed sufficient flexibility in order to draw up their own individual programmes.
The purpose of the EAFRD is to improve the opportunities that rural life can offer.
With these comments, we give our heartfelt support to the adoption of Mrs&#160;Schierhuber’s report. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, in the successive reforms of the common agricultural policy, which have had terrible consequences for family farming and for small and medium-sized holdings, one of the most recent and most worrying developments of which is the untying of production aid, the Commission has repeatedly overlooked the importance of agriculture in ensuring a settled population and economic and social cohesion in rural regions.
The budget proposal tabled by the Commission for the new Rural Development Fund within the framework of the financial perspective for 2007-2013 is woefully inadequate, for example in the way it takes substantial amounts from this fund to finance the Natura 2000 network.
It is particularly important to Portuguese farming and farmers that the budget for Axis&#160;1 and for agricultural and forestry production, covering uncultivated land and their representative organisations, be increased.
Community funding for Natura 2000 must be based on the corresponding much-needed increase in financing within the framework of the financial perspective for 2007-2013, as part of the Rural Development Fund and the Structural Funds, which ought to be the main sources of financing, or as part of the LIFE+ programme.
We object to the Commission’s plan to lay the groundwork for entities that have nothing to do with the rural world to be able to receive support that ought to be earmarked for farming, production and the rural world – in other words, for agricultural and forestry production and for farming as a whole – encompassing a huge and complex range of entities that can apply for funds within the framework of rural development.
Also I want to emphasise that in 2004 Irish agricultural exports exceeded EUR&#160;7&#160;billion.
In a word, agriculture in Ireland is a vital national interest.
Continued rural development in my country is therefore vital.
The Council of Ministers acknowledged, inter alia, that the economic, ecological and social relevance of the forest sector in the EU and the contribution that forest and forestry can provide to the Lisbon objectives of sustainable economic growth and competitiveness, as well as to the Göteborg objectives of safeguarding the quantity and quality of the national resource base.
Contradictory approaches are almost impossible to explain to the non-initiated general public, and, in my opinion, completely undermine our collective credibility.
I believe that they are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
Therefore it is vital that the rural development regulation aids, rather than aggravates, our situation.
Flexibility, minimum regulation and a belief that farming and rural development are allies, not alternatives are, in my opinion, the way to proceed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by warmly thanking our rapporteur, Mrs Schierhuber.
These two figures really do bring home the importance of rural development as the second pillar of the European Union’s agricultural policy.
In view of the empty coffers and the fighting over distribution, I must also point out that, historically, the EU budget was an agricultural budget.
It is very important that the support available for very small enterprises should also be extended to medium-sized undertakings in rural areas.
In the light of the above points, this report has earned our support. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the echo of the 'no' to the European Constitution from two nations which, possibly for different reasons, voted against it, is particularly loud in plenary of the European Parliament.
One of the policies which does not guarantee a stable, long-term economic and business framework is the CAP.
An effort is being made, through the financial perspectives in particular, to express new renationalisation trends in the European Union, by reducing the Community budget and renationalising the financing of Community policies such as the CAP.
Although this policy is criticised for having created financially privileged farmers in certain areas of the European Union, instead of discussing the question of the redistribution of Community resources in order to reduce these blatant discrepancies, its cofinancing is being promoted, which will exacerbate these discrepancies.
The resources proposed by the Commission and in the Presidency's compromise proposals will not result in a stronger rural development policy, which will give new opportunities and will introduce innovations so that the rural sector can approach the Lisbon targets.
The duration of development programmes should be seven years, in accordance also with the implementation of the CAP, in order to give producers and the food industries a constant timeframe.
I absolutely agree with the comments and proposals in Mrs Schierhuber's excellent report.
I too am in favour of maintaining a liveable countryside in Europe, and I can therefore endorse the Commission’s three objectives.
I should like to welcome Agnes Schierhuber’s report on the Commission’s proposal for the EAFRD.
Equally important is the aim of enhancing the quality of life in rural areas and promoting diversification of economic activities, through measures targeting farm sector and rural actors.
I welcome the proposals in Mrs Schierhuber’s report to promote equality of opportunity and the participation of women in farming and in the wider rural economy.
The Commission’s proposed budget of EUR&#160;88.75 billion for 2007-2013 at 2004 prices was also welcome.
We would still face considerable problems even with this amount.
There is a need for the aims and objectives of Natura 2000 to be mainstreamed into all aspects of EU agricultural and rural development policy and funding.
At the same time, however, we all know that agriculture is not only significant in economic terms, but also in social, environmental and cultural terms.
It therefore needs to be possible to carry out multiple agricultural activities in a rational manner in rural areas, thus ensuring that agricultural products of the highest possible quality can be produced and processed.
At the same time, people living in such areas ought to be guaranteed adequate living conditions.
The Member States must be aware that adequate funding should also be set aside in national budgets and used solely for rural development.
Secondly, use of EAFRD funding at local level to promote integration or SMEs should be as wide as possible.
Whatever major changes may occur in the market, Europe must remain visible, tangible and recognisable.
What became apparent last week was that ‘market, market, market’, in other words money alone, does not bring Europe any closer or touch the hearts of the people.
That is why it is such a splendid thing that this programme is so broad-based and that the Committee on the Regions, on which I had the privilege of sitting, has adopted amendments which making explicit provision for regional and local involvement and, at the same time, for an integrated approach.
Switching to different functions in the countryside will definitely have an impact in the sort of rural and urban areas that we have in the Netherlands, where plenty of proposals are ready to be tabled in order to make changes by engaging in reconstruction in rural areas.
It is already rearing its head as a reaction to common European policy, but will be even more prominent in 2013 when the next financial battle will be fought.
I am opposed to it on the grounds that it leads to less Europe, less recognisability and less closeness to those people in the countryside, a large majority of whom, while looking to Europe, have said ‘no’ to the Constitution.
She has prepared an excellent report that would provide an excellent conceptual framework for the distribution of rural development resources, if there were actually any resources to distribute.
This reduction is a very major one for all Member States, but it is particularly disadvantageous to the new Member States, given that we believed this allocation would offset the discriminatory Copenhagen agreements, as indeed was also promised by Mrs Fischer Boel at her hearing.
In the light of the discriminatory direct payments system, this discriminatory payments system will mean that, over seven years, agricultural support per farmer in the old Member States will amount to 48 000 euros, while in the new Member States it will be just 14 000 euros per farmer.
In other words, farmers in the old Member States will receive three times more over seven years in direct payments and rural development funds than farmers in the new Member States.
If this reduction does indeed go ahead, please do not let it affect the resources going to the new Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I welcome, as Mrs&#160;Schierhuber does in her report, the creation of a single fund to finance the rural development policy and stronger strategic guidelines.
With regard to the allocation of funds for 2007-2013, I find it regrettable that the financial perspectives propose a reduction in resources.
One solution, when compliance with standards requires investment, could be to allow a period of five years after setting up for this investment.
Finally, as I am convinced that rural areas are becoming more and more attractive, I have presented some amendments that aim to make this regulation more favourable to rural development, particularly by adding impetus to its non-agricultural component, including craft trades and micro-enterprises. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome this excellent report and congratulate the rapporteur.
Rural development is going to make a very important contribution to the future of rural society.
I believe that when you remove the farmer and his family from rural society, it begins to disintegrate.
The bureaucratic planning authorities which, with their dogmatic beliefs, are destroying and depopulating rural society, need to show more understanding. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I congratulate Mrs Schierhuber on her success in putting before us, with conviction and perseverance, indeed with stubbornness, a balanced compromise which the Council will be able to approve before the end of the Luxembourg Presidency.
Since it is a key part of the 2003 CAP reform that agricultural and forestry production should be preserved, especially in what were up until now less-favoured areas, I have argued for retaining the existing definition of less-favoured areas for the time being, with any changes made only on the basis of a comprehensive study.
That would be an outright social, economic and ecological disaster for agriculture in my country in particular, because sadly 96% of the agricultural area is of course less-favoured.
I come from Lubelszczyzna, a region in eastern Poland that is one of the 10&#160;poorest in the European Union.
The majority of people there live in rural areas and run small farms that cover an average of around eight hectares.
The people living in rural areas are therefore even more worthy of our attention than such matters as the management of these areas and agricultural and forestry production.
This is all the more true because rural areas are very rich in cultural and environmental terms, in spite of being poor in economic terms.
People living in poor regions are in need of particular assistance.
Finally, I should like to pay tribute to Mrs&#160;Schierhuber, who has dealt with a difficult subject and many amendments in an exemplary fashion.
The policy also aims to help restructure and modernise agriculture and to increase agricultural competitiveness, at the same time as protecting the environment.
A solution is needed to the problem of adequate funding for rural areas.
Poland in particular is in urgent need of such funding, as it is suffering from structural problems and very high unemployment.
If the European Commission wishes rural development in the former cohesion countries to bear the brunt of funding cutbacks, it should ensure that this does not take place at the expense of the new Member States.
We can only hope that the introduction of a single funding and programming instrument will make it easier to manage and control the new rural development policy.
To contribute to this there should be simpler regulations, so that in paying out assistance the intermediaries will not all be earning more than the farmers themselves. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, I would like to thank the rapporteur for this thorough and professional work.
I strongly approve of proposals for both the Commission and Member States to support small and micro-enterprises.
Since the role of these enterprises in the employment rate and development of rural areas is particularly important, the support criteria established by Member States must allow those enterprises preferential access to funding for rural development.
In addition, I would like to emphasise the need to support private forest owners more effectively, using a new financing system, and to compensate their expenditures in the reproduction and maintenance of forest resources.
In financing the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund, a few circumstances should be kept in mind: Firstly, the European Union must guarantee the financial viability of this regulation; in other words, the funds must make it possible to finance the rural life of both the old and the new Member States.
I would like to emphasise that the new regulation of rural development expands the selection of measures in the areas of forestry, NATURA and non-agricultural jobs, which necessitates an even more rapid increase in funding.
Lastly, in financing, it is important to make a clear distinction between measures with structural consequences and the measures of other structural funds. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the Commission’s document and Parliament’s report set out a great many key proposals for ways in which assistance could be provided to rural areas, and especially to agricultural areas.
In order to do so, however, these individuals must be provided with the appropriate conditions, or at least some form of assistance.
I am convinced that your concerns, particularly substantial on the first and second axes, have helped us to understand better the key issues that are important to the European citizens whom you represent in this Parliament.
I should like to comment on a few of the issues raised here tonight.
The Commission is open to a balance between axes, leaving more margin to the Member States.
Please do not forget that measures under Axis 3, if used correctly, can contribute significantly to promoting economic growth and job creation in rural areas.
If there is a real problem for young farmers in a Member State, the national strategy should address it and propose the appropriate measures.
As Commissioner McCreevy already mentioned, we also accept the extension of support for young farmers to subsidise loans.
I also noted your comments on the grace period for young farmers concerning the minimum standards.
In principle, they have to comply with cross-compliant standards just as other farmers have to do.
However, I am prepared to consider one exception to this principle: when a young farmer takes over a farm that has problems in meeting one standard or another, he can identify this deficit in his business plan and provide for the action needed to address the problems.
In this case, it would make sense to give him some time to adapt and during this period we would not penalise him for non-compliance with the standards concerned.
The Commission proposed a change as regards the present intermediate less-favoured areas.
Member States are requested to confirm or to modify their current delimination in their programmes.
In 2008, the Commission will present to Parliament and to the Council a report accompanied by a proposal in view of an entry into force in 2010.
Firstly, like you, I believe that the co-financing rates for these regions should be higher.
In addition, we offer in our proposal a number of specific advantages to operators in the outermost regions.
This is not possible, because once the modulation amounts are made available they are part of the programming as a whole and should be allocated based on needs identified in the national strategic programmes.
Rural development funds can, and should, contribute, but they can never be the only source of funding to solve this problem.
I believe that with our new regulation, including the improvements made by the European Parliament, we will have a solid basis for our rural development in future.
I hope I can count on your support to make it possible to maintain as much money as possible in this very important area.
If modulation must be applied to all axes, then we must also pay close attention to the level of their appropriations.
