(1) &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I have just become aware of a communication from the services of the sitting which tells Members – and it appears that it was announced at midnight last night – that, in relation to the Boogerd-Quaak report, on freedom of expression and information, in view of the large number of requests for roll-call votes, separate votes and split votes, the vote cannot take place today.
I was informed yesterday evening that given the volume of votes and the number of requests that have been received for split votes, roll-call votes etc., the sessional services, between the time the debate finished last night and midday today are simply incapable of producing the required documentation for the vote on the report.
This issue of procedure is not a question of expressing some kind of political preference.
Other procedural questions have been put to me.
I will work my way through this with the services in the course of this morning to see what we can do. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this report is not about Silvio Berlusconi.
It is a report about media concentration in all countries of the European Union, which is a matter of legitimate public concern.
Nonetheless, some colleagues are seeking to delay, to filibuster, to disrupt our procedures in order to evade the harsh searchlight of an unpalatable truth.
My group calls on the PPE-DE Group to withdraw these wrecking amendments; and if it will not, we are ready to vote on all 350 of them.
He urges our group to withdraw its amendments.
It is unfair to imply that our group is solely responsible for all the amendments.
The degree of collusion between two groups, aimed at evading a vote on an important report, is a scandal in itself, and this House should respond honourably to this scandalous state of affairs by taking a vote this afternoon or tonight, whenever, in order to demonstrate that these shenanigans will not prevent us from voting on this important report.
We want to vote at 12 noon, so that a vote on this report is held today. &#160;&#160; I will deal with the voting issue at midday.
I do not think we will find that there is a single negative vote in the two Groups against the amendments.
There is a high degree of collusion, as others have said, in terms of one Group calling for split votes on all the others' amendments and that Group calling for split votes on all their colleagues' amendments.
Mr President, you have your responsibilities, but you and your services are in danger of being subverted. &#160;&#160; Thank you for your concern for me and the services.
You may rest assured that this will get my undivided attention, but between 7 a.m.
I also have no wish to pass comment on the debates and events that took place in committee, nor on what apparently happened here last night.
On behalf of my group, I would like to voice my support for your endeavours and simply make the point that we want a vote to be held on this issue.
We believe this topic is far too important to vanish from the agenda, however that might happen. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to say something on a different matter.
This Monday, for procedural reasons, you pushed this half hour to the end of Monday's sitting, to midnight and perhaps even later.
We had an important exchange of views on another matter, so at 6 p.m. – one hour into our session – we had not yet started our debates on an evening when we had already extended the sitting to 11 p.m.
The Irish presidency has proposed a compromise on this issue and the House needs to be aware that this compromise is completely unacceptable if the way Parliament voted is taken into account.
The most important and crucial issue is that Parliament voted quite clearly for a maximum overall journey time for slaughter, which was also reflected in the declaration signed by over 400 Members of this House.
The compromise proposed by the Irish presidency completely ignores the will of Parliament.
Many animal welfare groups that are very concerned about this have contacted me.
The Irish compromise should at least take into account the transport of animals for slaughter with a maximum overall journey time. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I give such a reduction in journey time my wholehearted support.
As far as I am concerned, eight hours must be the absolute maximum. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the prospects for unification of Cyprus before its accession to the European Union.
Inevitably, as in any negotiation, it is a compromise.
The presentation of the contents of the plan to the public has not always been equally balanced.' I am bound to say, in following the debate with great intensity I very much share the concerns expressed by the UN Secretary-General in that regard.
I am very grateful for the opportunity to contribute to this debate on behalf of the Council and the presidency.
Our discussion this morning comes just three days before a truly significant date for the people of the island of Cyprus.
If the people of Cyprus vote 'Yes' in the two referenda on Saturday, a united Cyprus will join the European Union on 1 May, along with nine other new Member States.
The accession of a united Cyprus remains the strong preference – I emphasise the strong preference – of the European Union.
Let me recall today the commitment, made by successive European Councils, that the Union is ready to accommodate the terms of the settlement in line with the principles on which our European Union is founded.
The origins of the European Union are in the most terrible war in human history, which almost destroyed our continent.
The Union was born of a deep desire to encourage European nations to work together for the betterment of all their peoples and to resolve their differences peacefully, without resort to conflict.
Membership of the European Union has enabled nations and divided communities in Europe to bridge deep and bitter divisions between them.
The accession of ten new Member States in just nine days' time will formally end the tragic post-war divisions of the continent of Europe.
There is now an opportunity to end yet another division in Europe.
The decision on the Settlement Plan, presented by Secretary-General Annan, now rests ultimately with the people of Cyprus.
The choice and the decision is theirs.
They should be assured of the solidarity of the European Union as they contemplate, individually and collectively, a decision which will have a profound effect on their future and indeed on the future of their children and their children's children.
As the people of Cyprus exercise their democratic rights, they will be fully aware of the historic nature of this decision and of the opportunities at hand for Cyprus, for its neighbours and, indeed, for the rest of Europe.
The European Union and the wider international community stand ready to assist in the implementation of that settlement, both politically and economically.
The commitment and the hope of the international community was evident at the high-level preparatory donors conference chaired by Commissioner Verheugen last week in Brussels.
I was at that conference and successive speakers expressed their readiness, their wishes, their hopes and their desire to provide financial assistance for the implementation of this plan.
A number of very significant and definite commitments have been made.
The results of last week’s international conference have been welcomed in a significant statement issued by the President of the UN Security Council on 16 April.
In noting that it is now for the Cypriots to take a historic decision concerning their future, the members of the Security Council gave the commitment that, should the plan be approved, they stand ready to take further actions as provided for in the plan, including the establishment of a new UN operation in support of its swift and full implementation by all parties.
The members of the Security Council would also be committed to helping ensure that the parties fully meet their commitments under the settlement.
The United Nations has been deeply involved with Cyprus for the past forty years.
Member States, including my own country, have been proud to contribute military, police and civilian personnel to the force in the interests of all the people of Cyprus.
The European Union has stayed the course with Cyprus.
What we expect, first and foremost, from all our Member States, and what we expect above all from the countries which are due to join the European Union in less than ten days' time, is full endorsement of this basic principle of European unification as a peace project.
Cyprus is the last country in Europe that is still divided.
I have held dozens of talks with ex-President Glafkos Clerides and President Papadopoulos on this basis.
The second point that I wish to make is this: the negotiating process launched under the auspices of the UN Secretary-General was paralysed for a very long time by the outright opposition of the Turkish Cypriots.
Thanks, not least, to the European Union's efforts, this blockade has been overcome and at every stage of the process, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus reaffirmed that it endorsed the basic framework of the Annan Plan, saying that it wanted minor points to be amended, but within the parameters of the plan – I quote: ‘within the parameters of the plan’.
President Papadopoulos's statements after the end of the talks in Switzerland amount to the fundamental rejection of the basic principles set out in the plan.
Based on what President Papadopoulos said, I can only conclude that the Government of the Republic of Cyprus now rejects the federal solution to the Cyprus problem, which is based on the coexistence and equality of the Greek and Turkish Cypriots and is endorsed by the United Nations and the entire international community.
For months – for months – I have done my utmost, like everyone else, in good faith and trusting in the promises made by the Greek Cypriot Government, to establish parameters which would enable the Greek Cypriots to endorse this plan.
The very least, however, that can now be expected from a country which wants to join the European Union in less than ten days' time is that it must ensure, at the very least, the provision of fair and balanced information about the objectives and content of this plan.
I call upon President Papadopoulos to ensure that in his country, the basic freedoms of information and opinion are strictly guaranteed, and that from today onwards, free access is granted in the Cypriot media to all those who are able to provide a full explanation of this plan in line with the United Nations' intentions.
As before, I am willing to do so.
I think it is very regrettable that in the many statements I have heard from the Greek Cypriot side in recent days, the word 'peace', the word 'reconciliation', the word 'mutual understanding', and the word 'different communities and religions living together' are hardly ever mentioned.
Let me make it clear: our objective is to provide a model, in this part of the world, that demonstrates that the concept of European integration is strong enough not only to avoid conflicts but also to resolve existing ones.
That would send out a very strong signal, especially in this region, where the coexistence of communities from different cultures and religions has produced the most profound and difficult global crisis that we have faced for some time.
After careful analysis, we ascertained that the new Republic of Cyprus, the United Republic of Cyprus, can speak with one voice, meet its international commitments, will not block international forums, and will be equipped with structures which are robust enough to enforce international law.
Finally, we have made pledges to assist with financing the costs arising from this agreement, and these pledges are very far-reaching.
It must be clear that everyone can exercise their rights, and this includes the lodging of complaints to the courts in Luxembourg and Strasbourg.
However, we must also make it clear that a positive solution to these questions and the unification of the island will generally improve conditions for people on both sides of the demarcation line, and therefore no individual issue should stand in the way of this chance to achieve an overall solution.
I myself became a Member of this House at a time when my country was still divided.
Cyprus is not a divided nation; here, there are two different nations in one country.
For this reason, we are saying that the citizens of Cyprus have the right to decide for themselves on an independent and sovereign basis.
I hope that on this basis, and in the spirit described by Commissioner Verheugen, who has been highly committed to this issue for years, a positive outcome can still be achieved on Saturday. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the history of a nation, there are moments when citizens are faced with a fundamental choice.
The Commission has assured us today that these conditions have been met in the final version of the Annan plan.
If the plan is rejected, the island will be divided indefinitely.
The present situation will be frozen.
Our draft resolution delivers a clear message.
Before you join the European Union, we say to you: Leave nationalism behind you, the European Union will help you overcome any difficulties arising during the construction of a united Republic of Cyprus. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on Saturday, Cyprus votes on the Annan Plan and its future.
European Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House have consistently urged all parties to support the plan and we do so again now.
The Annan Plan offers Cyprus a chance for reconciliation and renewal.
It is a door to a better future on an island that has endured too much for too long.
With goodwill on both sides it could be a first step away from years of partition.
The European Union will underwrite a huge amount of the reunification process and the Court of Justice will provide a legal framework for its resolution.
This is the last, best hope for a unified Cyprus to join the European Union on 1 May.
They can and will vote as they please and they have the right to vote 'no'.
But I believe it would be a sad and sectarian choice, the wrong choice for the wrong reasons.
Moreover, if the purpose of self-determination is the freedom to go on nursing old resentments and the right to weigh the money in your pocket today against reconciliation tomorrow, the Cypriots who have turned their faces against this process are welcome to it.
The Annan Plan is a .
The European Union would have to face up to a new reality on the ground: the possibility for a peaceful transfer of land will be lost; the Turkish army will continue to guard what will remain a militarised border; UN peacekeepers will patrol within the European Union.
Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House hope beyond hope that Sunday will not find Cypriots stirring the cold old ashes of a sad history. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I visited the island for talks last week.
The process of EU accession has raised hopes of a solution to the conflict, but many expectations are still unfulfilled, especially among the Greek Cypriots.
The efforts made by Secretary-General Kofi Annan merit great respect, but it is difficult to communicate 9&#160;000 pages of treaty text to both communities on the island within a matter of weeks, and this has clearly failed due to the different political interests at stake.
There are different interpretations of the plan even within the governing coalition of the Republic of Cyprus, as the statements made by the President and the coalition partners demonstrate.
For the reasons I have stated, there have been serious calls for the postponement of the referendum in order to gain more time for information and opinion-forming.
The country has undergone a war.
Northern Cyprus has been under Turkish occupation for thirty years.
Even with the 100% that you rightly question, there is still a problem, namely that these concerns exist at all.
It is about constantly evolving processes, which can be mapped out to some extent in advance but which require a pro-active and very level-headed approach at every stage.
In this critical situation, the EU has an obligation, together with the United Nations, to be a reliable partner for the Republic of Cyprus, but also for the two communities, in resolving the conflict.
Not only Cyprus, but Europe as a whole will be the winner if we manage to heal this wound. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we do indeed face a situation which is not only difficult but also very sad.
For years, we have argued here in this House that we could not let a Turkish nationalist position prevent Cyprus's accession to the European Union.
We asked what guarantees there were that, with a radical change on the Turkish side, the guaranteed accession of Greek Cyprus would not take place at the expense of the northern part of the island.
They will decide on the future of the Turkish Cypriot community in the northern part of the island.
The Greek Cypriots are already about to join the European Union.
And then you talk about the plan.
Yes, the world could be a better place, I admit that.
The world could be a much better place, and even if the Greens secure an absolute majority in Europe … … the world will not become a better place!
If there is a 'no' vote in the south and a 'yes' in the north, the European Union should open political relations with the north.
Yet the assumption that the Republic would do its utmost to arrive at a solution and that it would not fail in this formed the basis for that country’s accession to the European Union.
We also heard just now that matters falling within the Copenhagen political criteria, in particular, such as freedom of the press and access to the media, are closed off not only to our Commissioner&#160;Verheugen and to foreigners, but also to national opposition parties.
When this happens in other countries we take umbrage and tell them that we are breaking off negotiations with them, as we did with Romania, for example.
In my opinion, we cannot accept this on any account, indicating as it does a lack of respect for the European Union.
This particularly goes for matters of the Copenhagen political criteria, and particularly for matters relating to the willingness to cooperate with the European Union in good faith for the purposes of reaching a solution capable of being of extremely great benefit to the inhabitants of both the northern and the southern parts. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Cyprus will join the European Union on 1 May.
In three days' time, the Cypriots themselves must decide whether they wish to live in a unified state after almost 30 years of division, and whether after almost 30 years, they wish to join the European Union as a unified state.
Since the Green Line was opened for Cypriots on 23 April last year, we have seen very clearly that Cypriots from both communities are willing and able to coexist peacefully.
The Annan Plan which will be voted on by both communities on 24 April is a compromise between the wishes and legitimate demands of both sides.
My twenty years of experience in working towards a solution for Cyprus, for its accession and for unity, tell me that the opportunities far outweigh the risks.
We are not the ones who have to decide on 24 April.
Even if we hope for a positive outcome, we will accept the democratic decision of the people of Cyprus.
What the European Parliament can say with certainty, however, is that this year is 2004, not 1964 or 1974.
A united Cyprus will become a Member State of the European Union, and as a Member State, it will not only enjoy the full protection afforded by membership.
It will also see that the responsibility of the European Union as a whole for ensuring the successful implementation of the Annan Plan guarantees this opportunity for peaceful coexistence.
Today, the European Parliament will commit itself to monitoring the entire implementation process through its committee work.
We are currently witnessing many fears, especially on the part of Greek Cypriots who look back at the past.
However, looking forward to the future is the better option.
As Members of the European Parliament, we are today sending a message to our soon-to-be fellow citizens in the European Union.
Statements by a European Commissioner, by the European Parliament or by individual Members do not constitute interference in Cyprus's domestic affairs or pressure from outside.
I hope that accession day on 1 May will be a genuine celebration of reunification in Cyprus – the unification of all Cypriots with almost 450 million people in the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Commissioner said that he felt cheated by the Government of Cyprus.
However, if the Greek Cypriots reject the Annan Plan, Turkish Cypriots will be EU citizens who are denied recognition and representation and who are being kept impoverished by economic sanctions applied by the EU.
Turkish Cypriots are trapped in a pincer: they are threatened on the one hand by Turkish settlers and on the other by the economic strength of the Greek Cypriots.
We cannot persecute our own citizens.
The presidency and the Commission, with the UN, must take steps to lift their burden through the means of transport and trade, and must do so without delay. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, allow me to say something different from what we have heard so far.
The majority of political forces in both Greece and Cyprus consider that the Annan plan may help to resolve the Cyprus problem, especially with the prospect of the integration of a united Cyprus into the European Union.
There is the question of how one part of public opinion is taking this affair on board, how it feels.
We will see to the rest later. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, two peoples and two cultures living in one country is often a delicate matter.
Reason is required, but feelings also come into play.
The Annan Plan is a good plan, but it is a solution born of reason.
Nonetheless, the question is: how can we help the yes vote, how can we try to bring about a yes vote in the referendum?
Why would the thousands of refuges vote yes when their future looks uncertain, when they will not all return to their family homes and they will not all acquire their property, while at the same time they will also be deprived of the basic human right of the judicial protection of the European Court of Human Rights?
Similarly, maintaining Cyprus, a Member State of the European Union, under a regime of guarantees by third countries, one of which is not even a member of the Union, goes against the principles of the European Union and weakens the development of the European security and defence policy, quite apart from the fact that the permanent presence of Greek and Turkish troops on the island goes against the principle of demilitarisation which is established in the plan.
I could expand on numerous other reasons which constitute the causes for the resonance of the no vote among Greek Cypriots.
If, therefore, we want to promote the yes vote, we need to recognise and note some of these causes in the text on which we vote, even though these are wish lists, while at the same time demonstrating that European reality also means the European Parliament, where human rights held, hold and will hold a central position.
I endorse everything Commissioner Verheugen said and I share his disappointment on this issue, because he really was one of the protagonists, who worked very hard to bring things to maturity, to the point at which we can initiate material reconciliation between the Greeks and Turks in Cyprus.
When I was young, I suffered in my own country from the suppression of the freedom of the press and I feel pain and shame that today Greeks seeking their freedom are depriving Commissioner Verheugen of the right to address them and try to persuade them of what he considers to be right, he who fought so hard for things to reach a satisfactory situation.
We want the guarantees heard here to be given with emphasis, but the greatest guarantee lies in changing the global situation.
The European Union has refuted all this and is inviting them into its fold so that they can live differently.
I shall end by reminding my compatriots in Cyprus of the words of the great Greek politician Eleftherios Venizelos, who said that the every nation seals its own fate and that whatever it does on its own whim is one less thing for its enemy to do. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I understand why Commissioner Verheugen feels cheated on the 1999 deal that the Greek Cypriot Government would facilitate a settlement if accession were unconditional.
That kind of effort has also been undertaken by the European Commission in the face of legalistic objections.
The World Bank predicts a huge growth spurt of 5% per annum if they do so. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, first I wish to express the full support of the Communist Party of Greece for the unsubmissive Cypriot people who, unlike the European Union, do not throw UN resolutions on the Turkish invasion and occupation into the waste-paper basket.
Leave at long last the Greek Cypriots and the Turkish Cypriots to assess the situation, to take a decision on the basis of their own interests.
Respect their history, respect their dignity, shake off the arrogance and haughtiness of the suzerain! &#160;&#160; Mr President, as a friend of the large Cypriot community which I represent in London, I have always supported peaceful reunification of Cyprus.
It is interesting that even the Greek Cypriots – the lucky ones who have been promised the return of their homes – seem to oppose the plan.
Cypriot President Tassos Papadopoulos has rejected the proposals and called for a 'no' vote by the Greek Cypriot community.
I, like many of my colleagues, wish the referendum process well and will support the outcome of the vote on the 24 April, whichever way it goes. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in three days the referendum will be held in Cyprus on whether or not to accept the Annan plan.
A yes or a no vote in the referendum will not be two sides of the same coin; it will be different sides of different coins.
The next day will not be the same as the previous day.
The party to which I belong, PASOK, and its President, Georgos Papandreou, are and have been protagonists throughout developments in Cyprus as regards the resolution of the problem and its integration into the European Union.
A yes vote, with all the concerns but which operates in the new environment of the European Union, opens a window to the future and to hope.
A no vote requires an answer.
The European Parliament and the European Union give both their support and their capabilities as security guarantees of the full exploitation of all aspects of the Annan plan.
I, as a Greek MEP, whose first contact with politics and political awareness was in the demonstrations and fights of the Cypriots to escape English colonialism and then in all the dramatic events in Cyprus, consider that a yes vote will result in an historic balance with prospects for a positive, historic reconciliation, in which everyone can trust in a positive future of prosperity and security for all, Greek Cypriots, Turkish Cypriots and the area in general.
That is why, in addition to security guarantees, the prospect of a second referendum must be left open after the referendum in three days' time, which looks like being a no vote.
Better informed Cypriots and stronger security guarantees could change the climate and thus, in two or three months' time, bring in a positive result, for which there is a great deal of hope.
Please vote for my amendments, which make the European Parliament resolution encouraging, reassuring and friendly towards the Greek Cypriots and the Turkish Cypriots and will, I am sure, encourage them to give a more positive response to the Annan plan. &#160;&#160; We thought the Nice Treaty was so good we should vote on it twice! &#160;&#160; – Mr President, without doubt there are practical problems with the Annan plan.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that we are at the moment holding a general political debate on the prevailing climate in the run up to the referendum on Saturday rather than on the content of the Annan plan, because a debate on the content of this plan, despite the fact that its positive points far outnumber its negative points, could turn into a detailed debate lasting several hours.
The agreement produced by Kofi Annan offers such an opportunity.
It is their decision, their decision alone and we will respect that decision.
Through their patient and determined efforts in cooperation with the parties, the Secretary-General and his hard-working team have created a unique and historic opportunity for a settlement of the Cyprus problem.
In his report to the United Nations Security Council, which was released yesterday, Kofi Annan stated clearly that the plan is the only available, the only foreseeable route for the reunification of Cyprus.
The decision now rests with the people of Cyprus and is for them alone, freely exercising their democratic rights.
The people of Cyprus know that the strong preference of the European Council is for the accession of a united Cyprus to the Union on 1 May.
Those are the views of the President-in-Office of the European Council and of the vast majority of the democratically elected leaders of the Member States of the European Union.
I said at the outset that we need to weigh our words carefully.
We do not want to cause any difficulties or be seen to be intruding in decisions that are ultimately decisions for the people of Cyprus.
Firstly, I should like to apologise, on behalf of Commissioner Verheugen, that he had to leave before the end of the debate.
He had another extremely important engagement, and this debate was scheduled to have ended a good deal earlier.
I should like to speak briefly about the 1999 Helsinki European Council – the first European Council that I attended.
We thought it was important to try to decouple the Cyprus conflict from the integration of central and eastern Europe into the European Union.
However, one cannot ignore the fact that there is that sense that we have been cheated. &#160;&#160; I have received one motion for resolution tabled in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure(2).
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; With regard to the referendums in Cyprus, Parliament’s primary objective should be to apply to itself the principles which it is shouting from the rooftops: observance of human rights and respect for democracy.
On the second point, Parliament must not go along with the scandalous pressure being piled onto the Greek Cypriots by both the United States and the European Commission – and in particular by Commissioner Verheugen, one of the keenest advocates of Turkey’s accession to the European Union.
Some of course always see a glass as half full when others believe it is half empty.
First, as the General Affairs and External Relations Council and the European Council has said again and again, a final settlement can only be achieved as a result of negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, resulting in two viable sovereign and independent states based on the borders of 1967, perhaps amended by agreement, living side by side in peace and security as laid out, for example, in the roadmap.
This has been the main thread of European thinking, from Venice in 1980 to Berlin in 1999, to Seville in 2002 and right up to the latest European Council conclusions of last month.
It is not surprising that we have agreed with what for 37 years has been the consistent American position, that settlements beyond the 1967 borders are illegal and represent 'obstacles to peace'.
They are contained in the Mitchell report and in subsequent documents, including the Arab League peace initiative of 2002.
They are also in the roadmap that has been endorsed by the international community.
It is in my judgment a tragedy that the courageous proposals of the representatives of civil society who negotiated the Geneva initiative do not seem to be shared by the political leadership in their communities.
Third, whatever the criticisms of the European approach to the dispute, we can say that we have sustained, throughout the weeks, months and years of bloodshed and hopelessness, institutions which can one day form the basis for a reformed Palestinian Government.
That has been the policy of the European Council, endorsed by this Parliament.
Only recently I received a letter from the Palestinian Finance Minister, Salam Fayad, which noted that with the help of the European Union the Palestinian Authority has now delivered on all of the reform commitments it had made to the Palestinian Legislative Council a year and a half ago.
We have been criticised in public for doing anything at all.
Parliament has held its own inquiry into these matters and OLAF has investigated these allegations.
But I have to say that this time we should seek certain guarantees from the Israeli defence forces that they will not destroy again what we build.
They should take into account the five points made by the European Council of 25 and 26 March, notably, the anchoring of the withdrawal within the roadmap and the facilitation of economic life in the territory that the Israeli defence forces leave.
It was the World Bank that noted that the biggest obstacle to economic revival is lack of access and a lack of sufficient freedom of movement of persons and goods.
We should also seek to ensure that humanitarian assistance can be provided as it would be elsewhere.
If we are to find a way back into implementation of the roadmap then we need to discuss very carefully with the Israeli Government the terms of withdrawal and see how we can associate the management of the withdrawal with the objectives of the roadmap.
The objective should be to hand over Gaza and parts of the West Bank to the Palestinian Authority, not to Hamas, and to ensure that the handover takes place in an orderly fashion, not in a way that leads to more chaos and more violence.
Finally, there are still – thank heaven – some moderates in Palestine, Israel and the Arab world.
It is not hyperbolic to say that the outlook today in the region is more worrying than it has been for some time.
It certainly seems to me a good deal more disturbing than it looked, for example, at the beginning of last year when we were being told that the road to peace in the Middle East lay in the military liberation of Baghdad and the installation of democracy in Iraq.
Maybe one day Iraq will be stable and democratic and maybe it will be a beacon for other countries in the region.
It has been a deeply depressing feature of my five years as a Commissioner that the world I look out onto today seems to be far more dangerous than it was in 1999.
I must admit that the Irish Presidency's initial reaction tends towards the first position, whereas the stance adopted by a number of foreign ministers in their statements leaned towards the second.
I myself endorse the position adopted by the foreign ministers, including the German foreign minister, who said that this initiative brings movement into the process which we should now exploit.
Despite all the scepticism that we might feel at the proposed withdrawal from Gaza that was outlined to us yesterday and again today by the two representatives of the Geneva initiative, the European Union should bring its influence to bear on the parties to the conflict, especially Israel, and make it clear that this withdrawal must be the first stage in its withdrawal from all the occupied territories.
That being the case, a Prime Minister who is affiliated to the right wing in Israel and who may soon be responsible for ejecting settlers from their homes in Gaza by force needs a broader framework in which to explain his position.
If the withdrawal from Gaza is indeed successful and the orderly handover to the Palestinian authority takes place as demanded yet again by the Commissioner a few moments ago, and if many of the homes currently being used are then offered to people from Gaza, and if the infrastructure is not dismantled but handed over to the Palestinian authority, this may well offer a fresh opportunity for peace.
The President himself refers to UN Security Council Resolution 242.
The President himself also says that only negotiations can ultimately produce a solution.
We should emphasise these passages of his letter in our further positions on this conflict.
Let me make a second point.
I believe that it is indeed the case that a solution to this conflict, which is not restricted solely to Gaza, can only be successful over the long term within two viable and independent states.
The Commissioner also referred to the work of this Parliament in relation to the deployment of European funds.
We have adopted two reports on this issue, a majority and a minority report, but there was 80% agreement on the findings.
On the issue of whether the decision to provide direct financial assistance was right or wrong, we can adopt various positions.
The Commission has done its utmost to contribute to the reform of the Palestinian authority.
We must thank the Commission and Commissioner Patten for their work on this issue, notwithstanding the divergent political views on whether the decision was right or wrong. &#160;&#160; Mr President, paragraph 51 of this Parliament’s recent Resolution on the results of the European Council states that ‘without strong pressure on the two sides, the Road Map will remain ineffective’.
Powell’s comments of last Thursday are, in my view, a mixture of absurd wishful thinking and cynicism, when he said that the meeting between Bush and Sharon has produced positive results for the Palestinians and their aspirations for a State.
In my opinion, the Palestinian National Authority has been waiting for months for the resumption of those negotiations, but it is clear that Israel does not want to negotiate with the Palestinian National Authority and is prepared at this point, with the full support of Bush, to withdraw unilaterally from Gaza outside the framework of the Road Map.
Following so many events we should remember another two paragraphs of our Resolution; paragraph 48, included following the killing of Sheikh Yassin, which: ‘calls on the Council and the Commission to consider acting in full compliance with Article 2 of the Association Agreement with Israel should the policy of extrajudicial killings continue’.
Also, finally, in paragraph 49 Parliament ‘asks the Council to invite the Member States in the UN Security Council immediately to table a proposal for an international peacekeeping force at the 1967 borders, with the mandate to protect both the Israeli and Palestinian peoples from terrorist attacks, military incursions and interventions’.
It may well be that Israel keeping some key West Bank settlements and Palestinians accepting that the return of refugees will be to a Palestinian state – with which I personally agree – would indeed be part of an eventual negotiated settlement.
I am absolutely committed to the existence of Israel as a Jewish homeland and state – though one in which Arab Israelis have full, equal rights – and Israel's right to live in peace and security within recognised boundaries.
My dismay at the occupation is not only about the misery of ordinary Palestinians but also how the role of colonial occupier is damaging Israel's integrity and its commitment to the rule of law.
I am deeply worried about the rising incidence of anti-Semitism in Europe and take a strong interest in combating it, as well as other kinds of racial and religious prejudice.
We need renewed vigour in exposing and rooting out anti-Semitism and in establishing the dividing line between legitimate criticism of the policies of the Israeli Government and the demonisation of Jews.
Finally, it is unworthy of Israel and its tradition of justice to persecute Mordechai Vanunu in a vindictive manner after his release.
For this achievement in the service of peace, his reward was to be kidnapped by the State of Israel and sentenced to 18 years’ imprisonment.
The unbalanced approach on the part of the world community is one of the reasons for the despair that now prevails in the Middle East, a feeling confirmed here in Parliament yesterday by two of the area’s foremost peace campaigners, Abraham Burg and Yassir Rabo.
In , Egypt’s President Mubarak stated that hatred of the United States in the Arab world has never at any time been as strong as it is today.
The United States backs Israel 100%.
A better balance is needed, and the EU could bring this about by backing the Palestinians as strongly as the United States backs Israel.
The EU could demand that Israel dismantle its stocks of nuclear weapons.
The EU could go still further.
Clearly, the EU has an attraction beyond its borders that it does not always have among its own Member States.
Offer EU membership to Palestine and Israel as a reward for achieving a definitive peace. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as Vice-Chairman of the Delegation for relations with Israel, I feel vicarious shame for the unilateral policy of Prime Minister Sharon, who is adding more and more fuel to the fire in the Middle East; indeed, throughout the world, as this is not a case of an isolated conflict; quite the reverse.
The illegal executions of Hamas leaders will have a boomerang effect, and new leaders are always waiting in the wings.
We, the European Parliament, must demand that Javier Solana puts his foot down in his dealings with the Quartet.
Solana could also put the Geneva Accord on the table.
After all, Colin Powell has approved this, and it has his support.
This must also be clarified.
Avraham Burg, who was present in this House yesterday, once said that the roadmap had to be produced in Geneva.
We should also take the opportunity to remind other parties that there is no alternative to full and impartial negotiation of a two-state solution, that this solution should result in a viable, contiguous and sovereign, independent Palestinian state, and that the roadmap is the only available way of achieving that.
That does not accurately reflect either the presidency's position or the position I stated at Tullamore.
The Council of Ministers made that clear.
The important, substantial and final statement unanimously agreed by the 25 ministers last weekend makes the position very clear.
I am confident that not only is the roadmap as valid and as centrally relevant now as it was when it was first put in place, but its relevance, importance and significance must also continue to be reiterated, particularly when the Quartet meets – probably in New York on 4 May.
Again, the foreign ministers and the general affairs ministers made it clear that there are five elements in this area: first, withdrawal in Gaza must take place within the context of the roadmap; second, it must be seen as a step towards a two-state solution; third, it must not involve the transfer of settlement activity to the West Bank; fourth, there must be an organised and negotiated handover to the Palestinian Authority; fifth, Israel must facilitate the humanitarian reconstruction of Gaza, in which the European Union has invested very heavily.
The ongoing difficulties in the region must never be allowed to become the basis for anti-Semitism to raise its head in Europe again.
At the OSCE conference that will take place in Berlin on 28 and 29 April the Union will play its full and appropriate part in addressing and condemning this appalling phenomenon.
However, I am not so sure that he was correct when he suggested that suspension of the Association Agreement is an appropriate tool.
Article 2 of the Agreement reinforces obligations already incumbent on the signatories in respect of human rights.
Perhaps we should emphasise that responsibility.
It would be wrong to let the debate pass without mentioning suicide bombings and terrorist attacks against Israel.
Suicide bombings advance no legitimate agenda and can only do damage to the interests of the Palestinian people as well as causing further untold mayhem, damage and suffering to the Israeli people, which has suffered far too much in the past.
Politically and economically the European Union and the United States have never been more interdependent.
We all know that the European Union and US relationship has been through a difficult period, not least over the policy on Iraq.
Similarly, on the way forward in the Middle East there have been differences in approach between the United States and the European Union.
It is important, therefore, that we, as elected representatives, should inform our citizens that, overall, the transatlantic relationship is extremely productive and remains positive.
We are trying to work closely together on many foreign policy areas, including counter-terrorism, non-proliferation, Afghanistan, the Middle East and the western Balkans – to single out just a few of the dossiers in which we have a common interest and to single out just a few of the areas where we are working closely together.
We will not agree on all those areas, but at least we are working along similar lines.
Ireland, during its presidency, is seeking to focus on the positive economic agenda between the United States and the European Union, while effectively managing the small number of outstanding disputes which account for slightly less than 3% or of our overall trade policies.
I want to take this opportunity to address one particular point of immediate concern in terms of our relationship with the United States.
I followed very closely the debate in this Parliament on the international agreement with the United States on the transfer of passenger information.
I am conscious of the concerns that have been raised, including the concerns about the need to protect citizens' rights to privacy and to redress in the event of error.
I am also conscious of the need to address the very real concerns that exist in the US about the terrorist threat.
So I understand in that context why the United States and why certain factions of people within the United States see the need to adopt a very stringent role and attitude in their response to terrorism and, in particular, why they are concerned about this issue.
Let me make myself clear: I believe that the Commission has worked long and hard to ensure that the draft agreement strikes a balance between the rightful concerns to protect personal privacy and the need to increase security in the air for all passengers across the Atlantic.
Mr&#160;Watson mentioned another agreement and said that this is an agreement which may be the best-worst solution, but it is the solution that is available.
He was talking about Cyprus.
These words may well apply also to the agreement on which this House will vote shortly.
I do not believe that if a European citizen on holiday in Florida has to queue for 18 or 19 hours in the heat of the day waiting for clearance they will thank any of us if we take an ill-informed decision.
I have listened and I have read a great deal of the correspondence that has been exchanged over the last 48 hours here.
Of course people want to protect civil liberties but we also want to protect the reality and the reality is that if we make the wrong decision very few people in Europe will be thanking us in a month's time.
Having said that, I respect any decision that this Parliament makes.
I accept the concerns and the anxiety that we should have safeguards, certainly that there should be a finality on information that is transferred, but we need to take practical political decisions.
It is a summit which has been criticised in some places, but the reality of it is that the United States exists and Europe exists and it would be foolhardy in the extreme if we did not continue to debate and discuss our relationship.
From our shared history and from our shared values, from political pluralism and democracy and the rule of law, as well as on human rights, there was so much evidence of our firm attachment to the United Nations and to multilateralism.
It is in this context that the very successful EU-Canada summit in Ottawa on 18 March saw the launch of two major new initiatives – the EU-Canada Partnership Agenda and the framework of a new bilateral trade and investment enhancement agreement.
The summit in Ottawa also gave a chance for the President of the Council and Prime Minister Martin to lead their EU and Canadian teams in wide-ranging discussions on major international issues, including looking at ways to promote effective global governance through revitalised international institutions.
I should say – from personal experience of having worked for a very brief time with CEDA in Canada – that the Canadians bring a huge amount to the table in this particular regard, something which they do quietly and unobtrusively and which is all too frequently ignored.
I want to commend the Members of this House for this particular initiative.
The presidency is fully aware of how closely Parliament is involved in taking the transatlantic relationship forward.
Having spent the weekend at two conferences in Ireland myself, I can warmly endorse what the Minister said and I also warmly endorse his other remarks, not least what he said about our relations with Canada.
We are well advanced in negotiations on a cooperation agreement for Galileo and GPS and we are moving towards an open aviation area agreement.
Despite all these successes much still remains to be done in pressing forward regulatory convergence.
Neither the transatlantic economic partnership nor the positive economic agenda have developed as fully as we would have liked in removing barriers.
We are therefore considering a joint EU-US review of the transatlantic economy, to report to the 2005 EU-US summit with a view to identifying impediments to further economic integration and to addressing the means for removing them.
This of course implies that we have the political will in the European Union to unite our positions, and that we have in addition the capacity to act.
In this spirit, I welcome the priorities set out in the resolution, many of which are familiar and match those on which we are working in the run-up to the EU-US Summit to which the Minister referred.
We must now implement this decision in legislative form without delay, with the active support of our business communities.
In order to address the root causes of the pandemic in Africa, we are looking to European Union and US investors to establish a partnership to promote the improvement of health care where they operate in Africa, and we clearly need to do more together to tackle poverty there.
Continuing political engagement and a range of financial instruments demonstrate our determination to encourage Russia's development as a stable, prosperous democracy.
We will continue to encourage China to take a greater role in international affairs concomitant with its expanding economic capacity and interests.
I hope we can encourage our US friends to regard China's stability and economic development as a good thing for all of us, rather than as a threat.
I would in particular like to underline the importance that Commissioner Lamy and I attach to the successful conclusion, as soon as possible, of a free trade agreement between the European Union and the Gulf Cooperation Council.
We agree that there is much for the European Union and the US to do both in terms of our bilateral dealings and in cooperation in the wider world.
However, I note that since the launch of the New Transatlantic Agenda in 1995 the mechanisms of the relationship have served us well.
I respect those who take a different point of view, but hope we all recognise that we are working towards the same objectives. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Patten, my group, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, thinks it essential to view the excellent and close relations that exist above all between the EU and the United States, though, in a broader context, between Europe and North America, as has been reiterated here, as a key factor in maintaining global peace and economic growth.
That is why our group, in any political or economic disagreements that happen to arise, tries to look ahead and find solutions rather than point the finger.
The unilateralism shown by the American leadership, one example of which is the Iraq war and its aftermath, and the policy President&#160;Bush’s administration has pursued which we think has recently only taken the interests of Israel into account, cannot have our approval.
We cannot put this right, however, by terminating the framework agreement that exists between Israel and the EU or by just blaming the United States.
Good signs of this are already visible in America’s attitude to the forthcoming Iraqi administration under the supervision of the UN.
Under the expert leadership of Commissioner Pascal Lamy, the EU has endeavoured to remove barriers to speeding up the World Trade Organisation Doha round of trade talks.
We also have to open up our markets in this sense to a greater extent than previously.
Once again, problems will be solved through dialogue, not through an escalating trade war.
I wish furthermore to stress that the values we share, as has been often been said here, on which both continents – I am including Canada here – will build their future, democracy, freedoms and rights of the individual, human rights, a society based on statutory law, the market economy with its system of free enterprise, are such a wide basis for the development of natural, lasting and good relations between us, that conflicting interests can surely be settled.
I am sure that speakers from our group will follow in my tracks and address many of the individual issues that make up transatlantic relations. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, many fine words have been said once again about relations between Europe and the United States.
Relations between Europe and the United States have been better.
Iraq has proved a divisive issue, and a major role for the UN in that country still seems a long way off.
Things would perhaps be better under a subsequent US Government, but in my opinion the trends run deeper.
In the field of international security, a number of priorities can be seen, including Iraq and what we can learn from this.
What we want is that priority be given to a multilateral approach to international problems.
We want a strengthening of the United Nations and, in particular, a strengthening of the international legal order.
We must enter into dialogue with the US on all of these issues, but we must also remain committed to our own strength.
We must strengthen and expand our cooperation but, as friends of the US, we must also be able to speak out when we disagree with the US Government.
That is what we must do right now on the issue of passenger list information, which the Presidency has discussed and which is also part of the war on terror.
We must also stand firm in our assertion that fundamental rights must be respected in this matter.
As regards the attitude to the situation in the Middle East, we must also speak out against the latest pronouncements by President Bush.
Any change to the boundaries dating back to before 1967 can only be recognised if it is the result of negotiation between the two parties.
The forthcoming summit between the EU and the US will be the first following EU enlargement.
Europe will appear stronger and more united.
The EU’s position on the international political stage has been strengthened, and we must exploit this situation in order to improve our necessary and desirable cooperation with the US.
Consequently,I would ask you to intervene in future and remove from the Chamber those Members who cannot work this out. &#160;&#160; Colleagues, on Wednesday 31 March I made a statement to the House about a number of newspaper articles and television reports concerning allegations made about Members of this House, purportedly on the basis of interviews and comments given by one of our Members, Mr Hans-Peter Martin.
However, there is no indication whatsoever that Members have broken the Rules of this House.
On the wider point, he fails to acknowledge the important progress that has been made by Parliament in reforming our rules and regulations to ensure greater transparency and accountability and to respond promptly to any points that have been brought to our attention by the Court of Auditors in its annual or specific reports and which have highlighted possible shortcomings in our rules.
In the times in which we live, it is very easy to blacken the reputation of public figures.
The Rules of this House are a work in progress.
When we talk about standards of behaviour in this House, the way in which we behave towards each other is an important consideration in those standards.
This House has always stood up for the rights of whistle-blowers, but we also expect whistle-blowers to exhaust the available and proper procedures.
Let me place on the record my deep personal disapproval of the methods employed by our esteemed colleague. &#160;&#160; Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak today.
I have been mentioned so often here in plenary in recent weeks, but this is the first time I have had the chance to speak to my fellow Members here in the House.
I have made it clear in all the statements I have made – and this is a very important point – that I have evidence of more than 7&#160;200 cases where colleagues have falsely claimed a daily allowance.
Nonetheless, Mr President, in my letter to you, I presented a number of cases in great detail – one being the meeting of the Group of the Party of European Socialists in Berlin on 10 May 2001, which you have mentioned – and asked you to indicate or clarify which rule governs conduct of this nature.
You supported me on numerous issues – as we discussed at the time – and acknowledged that I was right in many instances, as with the campaign on parliamentary reform with which you were associated and which you often took up as an issue.
That is why the footage was taken, and what I have done is no different from the actions of the President of the EU Summit in Denmark in 2002, who adopted the same approach in order to reveal the internal workings of the EU Summit.
We will continue our work. &#160;&#160; I know that many colleagues would like to speak on this matter but we do not have time to have a debate.
Those who seek to promote transparency should cease to skulk in the corridors and secretly record and film their colleagues. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to say firstly that you have the support and the thanks of the Socialist Group for the statement you have just made.
Having said that, I would like to refer to the point of order I raised this morning at 9 a.m., at the beginning of the session, jointly with other group presidents, with regard to the re-inclusion of the Boogerd-Quaak report on freedom of expression and information in today's vote.
I raised the issue this morning and I leave it to the Presidency to choose when it can be dealt with in depth. &#160;&#160; Mr Barón Crespo, we shall deal with that later. &#160;&#160; The next item is the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to protest again this year that the amendment tabled by my delegation on the 2005 calendar, which seeks to end this charade of coming to Strasbourg every month at gross expense to the European Union taxpayer, has been declared inadmissible.
Mr President, I think you should refer the matter to the European Court of Justice. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Strasbourg is a beautiful and historic city but, for those of us living some distance away, it is extremely difficult to access.
On Monday, Commissioner Bolkestein made some introductory remarks to the House on the matter.
We shall not vote on the Boogerd-Quaak report on air passenger data now; that vote will be taken as planned in the voting order.
Many in the House will have heard Commissioner Bolkestein on Monday, but will not have heard a view from the Commission in the light of the full debate.
Perhaps very briefly I can make three points in response, bearing in mind that I was criticised the other day on the grounds that my virtue was that I said what I thought, but that my vice was what I thought.
First of all, as the Minister said earlier in the debate on the United States, if we had been through what New York went through in September 2001, we would have wanted our government to do everything possible to secure our freedom, to secure us against atrocity.
I had not meant to intervene, on this occasion, but I hope that people will think very seriously about the consequences of this and the consequences for our credibility when it comes to negotiating in the security area with the United States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I enjoy listening to Commissioner Patten speak, but this particular speech was too much.
We want consultation of the Court of Justice because we are prepared to fight terrorism, but we are not prepared to fight against people's rights to confidentiality.
The House has expressed its own willingness to reach agreement with the United States on exchange of data on air passengers in a proper international agreement, to be approved by Congress and by this House, to ensure that we get the right balance between data protection and an effective fight against terrorism.
The Commission is deeply divided on this matter, and is unable even to claim adequacy because it does not know about the circumstances in which the Americans can refer data to third countries.
We accept it, but do it now, please. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the agreement improves the legal position of European passengers, and I would like to make it quite clear – and Commissioner Patten has announced what will happen – that we will place the responsibility firmly on the shoulders of those responsible for this chaos.
We will make it clear to Europe's citizens exactly who has curtailed their rights in this area.
The United States has the right to ask for any data it likes before flights; this has to be done, however, through procedures that conform to our rules.
The Commission has not fulfilled that promise and, therefore, we have had to use a very blunt instrument to try to maintain democracy within this Union. &#160;&#160; On behalf of the House I should like to welcome to the official gallery a Rwandan delegation, led by the President of the Rwandan Parliament, who attended a ceremony here yesterday to mark the atrocities of one decade ago.
I referred a request to the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs to consider the amendments under Rule 130a.
All the amendments tabled have received favourable votes from at least one-tenth of the members of the committee and so, under the Rules of Procedure, the amendments are entitled to stand.
The Vice-President in the Chair at the time ruled out this request because no notification had been given 24 hours in advance and because I, as President, had already decided that the report was admissible.
I am prepared to take a vote on the referral back before the start of the vote on the report.
Yesterday the services received 51 pages of requests for roll-call, split and separate votes for the Boogerd-Quaak report on the freedom of expression and information.
This would amount to a total of 1&#160;200 single votes, in addition to the 338 amendments, resulting in a vote that could last for four hours or more.
Secondly, under these conditions, it was physically impossible for the services to prepare the vote overnight in time for voting today.
I have been looking into the matter – not just because it was raised today, but also because of its complexity – on the basis of the powers conferred on me, as President, by our Rules, especially the interpretation of Rule 19(1), which confers on the President 'the power to put texts to the vote in an order other than that set out in the document to be voted on', and also Rule 130 concerning the order of voting on amendments.
I also fully recognise the rights of groups to table requests under our Rules.
This, I regret to inform you, would still give a total of 600 votes and a voting time that could last for two hours.
In making this proposal to you I am trying to strike a balance between the rights of different Groups in the House and the preferences of one or another to try to conduct our business in a reasonably orderly fashion.
And I will therefore end, Mr President ... ...
We are in a difficult situation with 338 amendments which are multiplying as a result of procedural issues.
The Chairman of one of the groups claimed that the amendments come from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
We have tabled 157, which means that 181 amendments come from other people.
Mr President, we know you to be a fair and objective President of this House, and if you propose that we vote on the report tomorrow at 12 noon in accordance with the procedure that you suggest, you have our support. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I will not go into the substance of this matter since we all know what it is about.
My Group has no objection to taking part in 600 votes tomorrow, but we have a clear preference for your suggestion that we simply vote on the original report paragraph by paragraph.
The first thing I want to do, then, is to appeal to these groups to glance through their amendments and see if any of them can be withdrawn.
Mr&#160;President, we agree with your second proposal, to vote on the original text first. &#160;&#160; There is only one proposal, but depending on how the House votes it may manifest itself in one of two ways. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should just like to say that my group agrees to your proposal to vote on the original report paragraph by paragraph.
The report is good enough, almost perfect to begin with; these amendments have been tabled for the plenary.
We therefore agree to your proposal, Mr President, and will vote accordingly. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I believe your proposal can certainly be taken into consideration and, if you could grant a suspension of our work in order to assess it, we would be able to give you a more objective opinion.
I recall that many Members from other groups have tabled 30 or 40 proposals for secret ballots on documents that interest them without causing any outcry at all in Parliament.
Having heard all the discussion, I agree that it is an excellent idea to vote on my original report.
For the sake of clarity, I repeat that the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
I shall allow a normal vote on all the amendments, but no split votes and no roll-call votes on them.
I shall also allow all the requests for split votes concerning the original paragraphs of the motion for resolution, but I shall allow only one roll-call vote per paragraph according to indications supplied by the Groups.
This would yield a total of 600 votes for the report, a long voting time, and would mean ruling out about 1000 split votes on the amendments.
I put this proposal to you in accordance with Rule 19 of the Rules of Procedure.
Whatever happens, the votes should start earlier, by which I mean at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; As a consequence of the decision you have taken, the vote should not take so long tomorrow. &#160;&#160; . – I am surprised.
I have asked for explanations of a series of accusations which have been made in this House and I have received no reply.
I would ask that somebody answer my question. &#160;&#160; Bearing in mind that I am not the only person to have made accusations, but that Vice-President Podestà has made a series of written accusations in the Italian press ... ...
Mr Barón Crespo, you stated that there was some problem with the disappearance of documentation.
I would invite you, Mr Barón Crespo, between now and the end of this part-session, to try to substantiate or, if not, to withdraw your remark.
In any event, Mr President, if it is true – and I would now ask for an immediate investigation – the votes taken in committee are null and void and we cannot, therefore, vote on this report tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, first of all I ask you whether it is right that staff should be sitting on the Council benches laughing and gesticulating.
One final point, Mr&#160;President: once again I accept the vote of this House, the vote that you, Mr&#160;President, have had taken here today.
As far as I am concerned, then, you asked for advice and then decided independently.
What is happening, what we are witnessing, is an inevitable, healthy reaction to the serious irregularities contained in the report, which, to my mind, removes competences from Member States’ constitutional institutions.
That is what is giving rise to this fair, legitimate and inevitable reaction to the abuse on the part of the majority of this House, who invoke the Treaties in order to breach them and the Charter of Fundamental Rights similarly to contravene some of its rules.
I therefore feel that this House must reassess this issue and must vote for referral back to committee, in order that the report can be cleansed of its irregularities.
In our negotiations with them, we succeeded in prevailing upon the Council to replace the term ‘high-speed sea routes’ by the term ‘motorways of the sea’, as we also want to promote slower ferries as well as high-speed ones.
I therefore ask that the communication to the Council should make reference to the linguistic error that has found its way into the German version as regards the term ‘motorway of the sea’.
I hope that the Commission and the Council agree.
What has been voted for this morning is perfectly compatible with the content of the resolution, which calls for the suspension of the agreement.
I believe that both the proposal and the motion for a resolution should be voted on and I would ask that this be done. &#160;&#160; Mr President, surely if the rapporteur is requesting a referral back to committee of her own report, and there is a dispute, then the House should vote on this? &#160;&#160; If that is an official request for referral, we will have one Member speak in favour and one against and then the House will decide. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have decided to refer this matter to the Court of Justice.
I would therefore insist once again, Mr President, that this report must not be referred back to committee, but that it should be voted on as planned, for the reasons I have just given, which I believe to be conclusive. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am simply astonished that paragraph 24 of the van Hulten resolution is not considered inadmissible.
This Assembly is in no position to say what the rapporteur thinks or does not think.
After all, it is only right and proper that one should participate in votes of this kind, and I would also have been glad if he had tabled a few amendments in order to put his reforming agenda to the vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I just want to respond to the remarks that have just been made.
I have always played my part in this reform process, and the present lamentable reaction shows how much you are isolating yourselves, and to what an extent criticisms made from within this House – including my amendments in the committees – are simply ignored.
However, I would suggest that if the House supports the first part then it should it be voted as an addition. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is in my capacity as chairman of the temporary committee on the Sterckx report, on which we have been working for half a year, that I ask you to vote on it in order to obviate the risk of it lapsing.
Before the vote on Amendment No&#160;2: &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have asked the competent services to make a linguistic correction because Amendment No 2 has been tabled in English and there are other versions which contain the word ‘considerable’, which does not appear in the English version, which is the true one.
I would ask that this correction be made. &#160;&#160; – We will check all the language versions, Mr&#160;Varela Suanzes-Carpegna. &#160;&#160; Once again, the European Parliament has just voted for a working schedule for 2005 in which there are no Strasbourg sittings on Fridays.
Of course, I voted against.
I should like to remind you of what I have said a thousand times before in other explanations of vote: the arguments are good ones.
The aim of the Commission proposal before us – one which I naturally endorse – is to codify the first Council directive of 23&#160;July 1962, on establishing common rules for certain types of carriage of goods by road, and the other acts that have been modified, retaining the content in its entirety and confining itself to combining them with the formal amendments required by the codification process itself.
This is in line with the Commission’s decision of 1&#160;April 1987 to call on its services to set about codifying all legislative acts once they have undergone ten amendments, in order to ensure that Community decisions are clear and comprehensible.
It also tallies with the Presidency conclusions of the Edinburgh European Council of December 1992, which reaffirmed the importance of codification.
This is in line with the Commission’s decision of 1&#160;April 1987 to call on its services to set about codifying all legislative acts after they have undergone ten amendments, in order to ensure that Community decisions are clear and comprehensible.
It also tallies with the Presidency conclusions of the Edinburgh European Council of December 1992, which reaffirmed the importance of codification.
The document concerned is clear and forms part of a range of measures that seeks to avoid the creation of any technical barriers to the trade in motor vehicles between the Contracting Parties.
In this particular case, it is hoped that a new regulation will be adopted on uniform technical requirements concerning the burning behaviour of materials used in the interior construction of certain categories of motor vehicles.
It should be remembered that the European Union acceded to the revised 1958 Agreement of the Economic Commission for a United Nations of Europe in 1997, on which the Council Decision entered into force on 24&#160;March 1998.
It should also be noted that this draft regulation will certainly ensure a higher level of environmental safety and protection.
The document concerned is clear and forms part of a range of measures that seeks to avoid the creation of any technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the Contracting Parties.
In this particular case, it is hoped that a new regulation will be adopted on uniform technical requirements relating to the protection of motor vehicles against unauthorised use.
The document concerned is clear and forms part of a range of measures that seeks to avoid the creation of any technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the Contracting Parties.
In this particular case, it is hoped that a new regulation will be approved on uniform requirements concerning the type approval of tyres with respect to tyre rolling noise.
They are intended to improve conditions of production and marketing of the agricultural products in these regions and to offset the effects of their geographical situation and their particular characteristics.
In order to prevent diversions of trade in the products concerned, these regulations prohibit, with a few exceptions, the re-dispatch and re-exportation of those products from the outermost regions.
This prohibition and the strict nature of the exceptions have had an adverse effect on the development of the economic activities of certain operators.
A further measure concerns the Azores and Madeira.
Currently, the prohibition on re-dispatching and re-exporting the products covered by the specific supply arrangements will not apply to trade flows between the Azores and Madeira, without any distinction being made between processed and unprocessed products.
Sugar from Madeira covered by the specific supply arrangements has been the subject of speculative dealing in the Azores, where the market is facing difficulties.
It is, therefore, proposed that trade between the Azores and Madeira of products covered by the specific supply arrangements should be restricted to processed products.
The aims of the proposal before us are to extend the Community’s participation in the Observatory for a further two years, until December 2006, and to keep the annual budget at the 2004 budget level of EUR&#160;235&#160;000.
This deserves my support.
The Foundation is a tripartite European Union body set up in 1975 to contribute to the planning and establishment of better living and working conditions.
The Commission must, therefore, enforce its legal claim to its share of the proceeds from research funding by means of a registration procedure for patents and other suitable measures.
I also welcome the successful conclusion of negotiations with the accession countries concerning conditions for their participation in the new Research Fund for Coal and Steel, whereby the payment of their contributions, which will be determined in accordance with the size of their mineral resources, will be staggered to take account of their respective economic situations.
We endorse the rapporteur’s position and, accordingly, voted in favour.
We should also like to join the rapporteur in praising, once again, all those who set up and developed the European Coal and Steel Community, and who thus made a significant contribution towards the unification of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, various amendments were worthy of consideration, but any amendment would have resulted in a conciliation procedure which would definitely have entailed the risk of a fundamental reassessment and would also have meant equally serious delays.
This is why I could not support any amendment, but this is not the case with the proposed link between Italy and Sicily, which I supported. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, as an MEP for Sicily, I would like to express my satisfaction and appreciation, and thank my fellow Members who, like me, voted for the amendment this morning, which has shown how, in the end, common sense prevailed when faced with the willingness shown by the European Council.
There is no doubt that the overwhelming majority of Parliament has today concluded the procedure at second reading by accepting the common position.
What is now happening at second reading is that, without a vote on the total, an excessively long list of motorways, airports, bridges and tunnels is being laid down as an investment obligation for the EU.
A serious debate on this is no longer possible today owing to lack of time.
Furthermore, I support all the Green amendments.
In Portugal alone, this situation has led to 550 direct job losses and almost 1 000 further job losses in subcontracting firms.
Whereas some aspects of the proposal under discussion are worthy of criticism, we must register our support for its commitment to alternative means of transport that are less harmful to the environment, such as rail transport.
Such actions are designed to promote the dissemination of practices, develop innovation and demonstrate how skills and experience can be used elsewhere; they also help to enforce Community policy and legislation in the area of the environment.
This instrument contributes towards implementing the ‘Birds’ (79/409/EEC) and ‘Habitats’ (92/43/EEC) Community Directives, and, in particular, towards establishing the NATURA 2000 European network, aiming at the on-site management and conservation of the most important fauna and flora species and habitats in the EU, by creating, for example, special conservation ‘sites’.
Life III expires on 31 December 2004.
When the extension of the LIFE programme was first discussed, the Court of Auditors&#160;told the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy that an audit had been carried out in eight Member States.
The suggestion by the Court of Auditors&#160;that private entities be excluded henceforth from EU subsidies for purchasing nature reserves was unable to count on support from this House, therefore, which I think is a very good thing.
It is not perfect and already there is evidence that such data has been inadvertently released to third parties.
I totally acknowledge the right of any country to protect and maintain its security.
While I fully respect the need for the highest possible level of vigilance against terrorism, the terrorists will have won if we sacrifice civil liberties and human rights under the pretext of ensuring security.
The Commission simply must ensure its draft agreement text is modified so that European citizens' data protection rights are protected.
The Commission’s proposal and the subsequent proposal for a Council decision enabled ‘access by US law-enforcement authorities to passenger name records (PNR) databases situated on Community territory’ which ‘amounts to exercise of US sovereign power’ in EU countries.
This Agreement would declare ‘applicable in the European Union and for the European citizens the US legislation in this domain’ and would transfer ‘to European level the discretionary power of the Member States to authorise (...) the utilisation for security purposes of data originally collected for commercial use and to create (...) a legal obligation for European airlines to give access to these data’.
This should be a basic measure of cooperation between countries, and blocking it only serves to prolong the absence of a firm EU response to the terrorist threat.
Unlike the rapporteur, I feel that signing this Agreement is indeed compatible with the European Community Treaty and does not breach European legislation on data protection.
I fully support the arguments put forward by Commissioner Patten.
Rather than block the implementation of measures such as this, Parliament ought to be working towards requiring carriers that fly into EU territory to comply with obligations of this nature, thereby ensuring the security of each and every one of us.
The aim of this proposal is to iron out the disparities that currently exist between the various Member States and any ambiguities that may arise as regards the provisions of the Manual while it is being recast.
This will be a step towards tightening control of the external borders and enhancing mutual trust between Member States in the area of border control.
There have been many cases of third-country citizens who have entered the ‘Schengen area’ legally, but who do not have an entry stamp on their travel documents, which makes it more difficult to carry out the controls that are increasingly urgently needed in view of the new challenges posed by international terrorism.
This proposal represents a step towards that goal.
This would confer on an agency powers that are currently held by the Member States.
The Monitoring Centre should be entrusted with the task of furnishing overall information, in other words, of collecting, analysing and disseminating data on all aspects of the phenomenon of drugs and drug addiction, which will help to provide the Community and its Member States with an overall view of the drug and drug addiction phenomenon.
This task should not prejudice the allocation of powers between the Community and its Member States with regard to the legislative provisions concerning drug supply and demand. &#160;&#160; As usual, you were not listening and, as usual, we were right.
The annual reports and statistical data are piling up, but the problems have grown worse.
The rapporteur therefore proposes overhauling the observatory’s operations and missions.
I believe that the actions proposed in the report, in particular those originating in Parliament’s Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, do not represent the best approach to adopt.
We need measures that effectively combat drug trafficking and drug addiction. &#160;&#160; I declined to vote in favour of granting discharge for the execution of the Commission’s budget for 2002 owing to the persistent lack of clarity on matters such as Eurostat.
Back in January, the European Parliament regretted granting discharge for the 2001 financial year without having access to all the relevant information.
Furthermore, the resolution accompanying the decision to discharge includes many questionable points.
For example, it states in paragraph 4 that Member States are in a subordinate position as regards the management of Community funds, which is inaccurate, in so far as they hold the purse-strings and it is the national taxpayers who indeed pay.
Another example: in paragraphs 115 and in subsequent paragraphs, the European Parliament wishes to establish a European tax, stating that the prime objective is to ‘guarantee the financial independence of the EU with regard to national contributions subject to the decisions of national parliaments’.
Despite the recent scandals and in light of the cases that led to the fall of the Commission in 1999, the administrative reforms that have been announced appear to be almost entirely cosmetic.
The Eurostat case also highlights the need to review the accountability chain in the Commission and the relationships that exist between the various key players and the Commissioners.
The credibility and efficiency of the EDF depends largely on the transparency of these funds and on evidence, upstream and downstream, that they are being used appropriately.
Furthermore, this will enable a more reliable comparison to be made with the EU’s own financial perspective.
Lastly, I agree with the assessment of the Committee on Budgetary Control, highlighting the fact that, apart from the political significance of budgetisation, considerable advantages related to budgetary management can be achieved by integrating the EDF in the general budget of the European Union; for example, more efficient implementation due to the possibility of harmonising existing procedures, greater level of flexibility in implementation, a higher level of transparency concerning total Community aid and avoiding the current complications of transitional measures between EDFs.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; Although elected by the inhabitants of the Belgian regions of Wallonia and Brussels, Mr President, I have as usual supported the continuation of European Parliament activities in Strasbourg.
My support is based on my conviction that the presence of the European Parliament in Strasbourg, despite the passage of time and even present or future enlargements, is of considerable symbolic value.
This is why everyone in Europe, especially the young, needs the continuing presence of European democracy in the capital of Alsace. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the van Hulten report on granting discharge for the execution of the European Parliament’s budget for 2002, since it provides clear guidance concerning in particular the transparency of Members’ allowances of the type we have always defended.
Furthermore, the initial report contained very regrettable sections casting doubt on the location of Strasbourg as the official home of the European Parliament.
Strasbourg is in fact the symbol of Franco-German reconciliation and, tomorrow, it should become the symbol of reconciliation for the whole of Europe.
Paragraph 69 of his motion for a resolution includes an error.
It gives the impression that the quoted sums of EUR 185 and 203 million are overspends arising from the retention of three venues, while these are in fact the total costs.
Paragraph 70 goes on from the confusion and includes falsehoods.
Even in amended form, the resolution is still unacceptable: instead of restricting himself to the execution of the 2002 budget, the rapporteur has made it into a mishmash of his personal ideas.
Neither the rambling considerations on the status of Members nor the proposal concerning the seats of Parliament have any place in it.
This last proposal not only constitutes an infringement of Article 284 of the Treaty, but expresses a narrow view of the financial cost of decentralisation.
The purpose of the campaign, started by the socialist Member, Mr van Hulten, is to abolish Strasbourg as a seat and Luxembourg as a venue.
Hypocritically, Members of the European Parliament and candidates in the European elections are being asked to ‘make a commitment to increasing efficiency by seeking to end the dispersal of European Parliament facilities (...) and establishing a single seat in Brussels’.
I eventually voted in favour of the report, after my group’s amendments had been accepted.
A survey of civil servants in Strasbourg and Luxembourg has shown that 95% are against moving to Brussels.
On a proposal from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, a majority of 31 voted against moving all sessions to Brussels.
The proposal to reimburse only the actual travel costs incurred was not included in the vote, as a much vaguer proposal was first adopted on a study into travel costs.
My group presented two proposals to limit the period for which the attendance register can be signed.
The reason I have voted against this report is mirrored in the roll-call votes that have been taken, on the Members’ Statute and on maintaining Strasbourg as Parliament's seat.
In fact, it was even rejected recently by the Council.
Nevertheless, there is no reason why I should not express my position on the matter, which has nothing to do with having less regard for France or the French.
We voted against Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities, believing as we do that it could be interpreted in such a way as to facilitate the retention of the 28 May 2003 decision on costs, with its hidden lump-sum allowances.
In the final vote, though, we nevertheless voted against the report, as it fails to deal with such issues as the demand for a single venue for the European Parliament or the abolition of allowances for Fridays in Strasbourg.
The rapporteur has failed, this time, to serve the European cause well and should not, therefore, receive the European Parliament’s approval. &#160;&#160; We do not want the Commission to table a proposal aimed at changing the national share systems.
We have chosen to vote against the wording that calls upon the Commission to implement the one share/one vote principle, because this is not in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
Such a proposal would have far-reaching consequences for patterns of ownership in quite a few Member States.
Increased movement in the European labour market is good, but we cannot accept flexibility at workers’ expense. &#160;&#160; If the principle of ‘one share – one vote’ is introduced into all legislation there is a risk of legislation having retroactive effect, with the present ownership being changed and thus expropriation taking place.
This report proposes deviations from the agreement.
When those aspects of company law that benefit from harmonisation are changed through European legislation, the principle of subsidiarity must be respected, and central corporate governance must as far as possible be avoided.
Every day this Parliament advocates following the Lisbon Strategy, but when it actually has the opportunity to opt for the completion of the internal market by means of mutual recognition and possibly maximum harmonisation, it shrinks from it.
Therefore the European Corporate Governance Forum which the Commission proposes to convene ought to be representative of all interests and trade unions and civil society ought also to participate in it. &#160;&#160; .
We are consequently unhappy that, instead of focusing on the issue of relations between shareholders and managers – between ownership and control – the Commission has not attached greater importance to effective protection for workers, to their participation and that of the organisations that represent them in the process of taking decisions on the lives of their companies.
What is at stake are the main political objectives (increasing the rights of shareholders and protecting third parties, improving corporate efficiency and competitiveness, etc.) that must underpin all actions needed in this field at European level.
These include an action plan that classifies in order of priority the various measures that are considered necessary in the short, medium and long term.
Furthermore, the action plan is an important element in creating, in an enlarged Europe, a transparent and healthy capitals market, in particular given recent events in Japan, followed by those in the United States and in Europe – the Parmalat case, to be specific.
Nevertheless, although I endorse the report and although the rapporteur is a socialist, I voted against the amendments tabled at a later stage by the Socialist Group.
In addition to being a matter for social organisations, the rules linking the social participation of shareholders with the right to vote are rules of proportionality, in which equality is fully respected. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the draft plan for the reunification of Cyprus supported by the Commission, and just approved by the European Parliament, simply cannot be right for us.
In these circumstances, the plan seems to have just a single objective: to sweep under the carpet, even at the cost of the very worst of concessions, even to the detriment of the Greek Cypriots, a problem which was threatening to be an obstacle to Turkey’s accession to the European Union.
Those who voted today for the resolution supporting this plan have therefore simply acted as supporters for Turkey’s entry. &#160;&#160; .–At a time when the UN Security Council refuses to take a stand, the ΕU and the European Parliament are throwing all their weight behind the Annan plan, coercing the people and the political forces of Cyprus.
It extols the Annan plan as a shining example for the settlement of equally difficult international issues and maintains that it establishes a functioning federal system of intergovernmentalism.
Equally repulsive of the content of the resolution were the positions of numerous 'friends' of Cyprus, including President Pat Cox, Commissioners Verheugen and Patten and Greek MEPs.
The President accused the Cypriot media of exclusion at a time when he himself, in an interview with a Cypriot newspaper, talked at leisure about the Cypriot leadership's lack of courage and imagination.
The Commissioners spoke in unacceptable terms, extremely derogatory and insulting, as sovereigns to their subjects.
Such stands should not be adopted when the common ground of all the Greek parties is that the Cypriot people should decide without pressure, assessing without haste the possibilities and the dangers which each possible outcome of the referendum implies.
For this reason, we firmly reject any intention or attempt to renegotiate the Republic of Cyprus’s Treaty of Accession to the European Union, to consider Turkey’s accession to the European Union, when what are termed the ‘Copenhagen criteria’ have not in any way been fulfilled, or to ‘legitimise’ Turkey’s occupation of part of Cyprus.
Hence our vote against the resolution, which did not even consider the amendments tabled by our group. &#160;&#160; .–The Annan plan is totally out of keeping with the UN resolutions.
It creates a situation of constant tension between the two communities, leaving the door open for new – including military – interventions.
We consider it unacceptable for the USA and the EU to keep reminding the Cypriots that this is a unique opportunity (for whom exactly?).
The Communist Party of Greece again expresses its undivided support for the Cypriot people.
After the failed referendum, we will have to look for another way of admitting the Turkish-speaking part to the EU, if it so wishes. &#160;&#160; .–Immediately after Helsinki, the Communist Party of Greece stated that the procedure for integrating Cyprus into the EU was being used as a lever to bring about a definitive partition of Cyprus.
The Communist Party of Greece expresses its undivided solidarity with the entire Cypriot nation.
We call on you to do likewise and to stop this blatant coercion. &#160;&#160; I have voted against the resolution (adopted by 422 votes to 30, with 47 abstentions) prior to Cyprus’s referendums on 24 April, because the European Parliament would thus be contributing to the Turkish occupation of the northern part of the island.
The resolution clearly supports the Annan plan.
In practice, Cyprus will not be a fully-fledged EU Member State.
Cyprus’s presidents are being urged to request that the European Court of Human Rights overturn all the judgments in which Greek Cypriot refugees have been given the right to recover their property in the northern part of the island. &#160;&#160; We voted against the resolution in support of the Annan plan, which is flagrantly biased and iniquitous and cannot form a firm and enduring basis for settlement of the Cyprus question.
The shortcomings seen in the sector involving the cross-border transfers of small sums apparently reside in the inadequacy of the legal framework at European level that the Commission proposes to present, nevertheless, the structure of this framework – the form and number of legal instruments – is still not known.
Such an approach has clear merits, but will only be successful in an environment where 'green products' are priced favourably compared to other products.
The application of the Polluter Pays Principle would be a key step in this direction.
The Commission’s IPP approach consists of pushing ahead to achieve sustainable development: pragmatically including all the interested parties, such as those working on the projects, the various sectors of industry, retailers and consumers, creating an appropriate economic and legal framework (corporate acquisitions that are more ecologically sound, promoting ecological labelling) and promoting research (drawing up pilot-projects targeting specific products).
This means that both in terms of quality and quantity, there is insufficient capacity to guarantee the safety of citizens along the European coasts.
Which means that all the work we have done has reached a disappointing conclusion, particularly because we know that Member States refuse to take part in introducing criminal sanctions.
Consequently, what we have proposed here is lacking in substance, which is very regrettable, but it has not prevented me from voting in favour of the report.
I do take the view, though, that it is necessary to clearly define responsibilities, and so this must be recorded in the Minutes of this House. &#160;&#160; The June Movement has today decided to vote in favour of the report on improving safety at sea, since we naturally support all sensible comments on environmental considerations and the combating of oil pollution.
Moreover, the June Movement decided to vote neither in favour of, nor against, Amendment No 5, since we are unable to support a desire for greater harmonisation.
This is why the Commission is called on to adopt legislative measures to harmonise and enhance this profession at European level and to sign up to this idea under the auspices of the IMO. - The second advocates EU action to ban flags of convenience in European territorial waters.
Item 13: We welcome increased European cooperation between the national coastguard services when it comes to joint operations, planning and the development of competence.
We believe that those countries that have accepted their responsibility and funded places of refuge along their coasts should not be forced by other states’ negligence to create places of refuge. &#160;&#160; . – The report by the temporary committee is yet another attempt to conceal the anti-labour policy in shipping and defuse reactions by the grass-roots and labour movement to crimes at sea in which dozens of seafarers lose their lives every year and which have grievous consequences on the environment.
Three years since the adoption of the ‘Erika’ legislative packages, seven Member States (Italy, Greece, Finland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Austria and the Netherlands) have still not incorporated Community decisions into their national legislation.
We must do away with flags of convenience, starting with those in the EU.
Finally, we must turn the spotlight on the responsibilities involved in the sinking of the , especially those of the Aznar Government.
With the accession of Cyprus and Malta, the EU will become the number one maritime power in the world.
This will determine the quality and safety of vessels navigating European waters and European vessels throughout the world as well as protection of the coasts and of the European public.
This means that 20&#160;000 tonnes disappeared into the sea and that the coast of Galicia remains polluted long term.
This committee has held various hearings with experts and leaders from Union countries, who helped it to gain a more thorough understanding of the issue.
Unfortunately, because some of the contributions have contradicted one another, this temporary committee has not been able fully to clarify the causes and the circumstances of the sinking of the , an aspect also referred to in the Sterckx report.
I share the rapporteur’s concerns, specifically where he focuses on ways of improving maritime safety and insists on some points that I believe to be important, such as the need for the EU to work together with countries affected by maritime disasters; the publication of the black list of vessels that must be banned from entering EU ports and the development of a system for detecting vessels transporting hazardous goods at sea.
Although the temporary committee has to date served to maintain the interest of the Institutions, Member States and other organisations involved in the field, it is now up to each of these to assimilate this concern and, above all, to bear in mind ... &#160;&#160; It was out of the question for us to vote in favour of the Sterckx report, in view of its criticism of the Malaga measures jointly agreed by France and Spain to the great benefit of European maritime safety, but with the inherent defect, in the eyes of the majority in this Parliament, of being the product of cooperation between Member States and not of a supranational procedure.
I hope that the meetings they had yesterday and this morning with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, the delegations for relations with Israel and the Palestinian Legislative Council, and representatives of the political groups will have been fruitful.
The lively interest shown by Members in these meetings testifies to the enthusiastic support of the European Parliament for the Geneva Initiative.
Thank you for coming. &#160;&#160; The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Council and Commission statements on transatlantic relations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, thank you, although I regret that Mr Patten has perhaps not had time to come back to the sitting.
I also heard, and duly noted, what the Council said at this morning’s debate.
In Iraq, the blinkered attitude of the Bush administration, producing daily human tragedies, should mean, in this area too, far greater involvement of the European Union so that a real transfer of sovereignty guaranteed by the UN can take place as soon as possible.
Taking the initiative within the IMF or the WTO with a view to alleviating inequalities throughout the world could, again, be a useful European contribution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Europe and the United States do, of course, have a great deal in common, and the need for a dialogue between the two is self-evident, for neither can solve the global problems on their own.
In Iraq, the United States learnt the hard way that it cannot solve the problems of dictatorial regimes and terrorism without the help of the United Nations and Europe.
It means that NATO must pacify Mesopotamia, preferably under a UN mandate, and that there must be a generous Marshall plan in order to neutralise the pull of radical groupings.
Personally, I should like to warmly back this appeal within the Council and the Commission.
That applies to the European Union itself. &#160;&#160; Mr President, since the war in Iraq, transatlantic relations have gone sour.
That is a very sad conclusion because I am convinced that Europe is mistaking its enemy.
That is why the political leaders in Europe have an important role to play.
More specifically, this Parliament should underline more emphatically how much Europe stands to lose in the event of continuing tension and how much it stands to gain from actual cooperation with the United States.
The spirit of your remarks and of Commissioner Patten's shows that, despite the enormous difficulties we have had in transatlantic relations in the past few months, a great deal could be achieved at this EU-US Summit if we have sufficient courage to do so.
As you have said, Commissioner, so many subjects form part of this agenda: the environment, foreign policy, industrial and social policy and, as we have seen, PNR data as well.
It now needs a new framework to take these into account and, in particular, bring the parliamentary dialogue into the broader framework of the relationship.
I hope this wish will be shared by our American friends as well, so that at the EU-US summit next year, when we have the incoming administrations, we would be able to pave the way for a broader agreement, possibly a partnership agreement, to be struck between the EU and the US perhaps by 2007.
Looking at our report, our declaration, our motion for a resolution, I see three major political themes: the strengthening of the United Nations, the situation in the Middle East and the fight against terrorism.
Where strengthening the United Nations is concerned, I do not see any change in emphasis in the USA’s policies.
The fact is that there is, in the region itself, nothing left of the loudly-trumpeted initiative for a new Middle East.
I believe that this aspect is largely lacking in the motion for a resolution.
There was a very explicit request that the European Union and the ministers of foreign affairs should give far more support than they have in the past to the Geneva initiative.
There was also a request that the European Union should be proactive in the support of independent organisations, under international control, in Palestine.
These points should be clearly stated in our draft resolution.
Finally, I should also like the European Union to give more consideration to international studies.
If we do not understand that, as has often been said in this House and as Commissioner Patten has also often repeated, the struggle against poverty is one of the fundamental aspects of the war on terrorism and if we do not follow the recommendations of international reports to which we ourselves contribute, we shall lose all credibility.
Four-fifths of the new investments made in Europe today come from the United States and we must not forget that the 15 current Member States of the Union invest more in Texas, the home State of President Bush, than Japan invests in all 50 States of the Union.
Secondly, I want to urge the Council to raise with US colleagues the issue of Iraq and in particular the recent massacre at Fallujah – and I do not use the word massacre lightly.
More than 600 Iraqis have been killed or injured in the last two weeks by US bombing and ground operations, and yet EU Member States have failed to condemn the US military actions.
However, over 350 of the dead in Fallujah were women and children.
Multilateral cooperation is in the interests of us all and most particularly serves the interests of smaller states which, lacking military power, must rely on building support for a strong rule-based system.
We should remember that when it comes to European-American relations there is much more that unites us than divides us although that does not mean that we do not have our differences.
This is why I am pleased about the commitment in this respect, recently reaffirmed by our Parliament and by the Convention. &#160;&#160; Mr President, many of us, particularly on this side of the House, wish to strengthen relations with the United States.
I am encouraged by much of the positive and constructive language in the resolution before us and I am particularly pleased that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy adopted my amendment calling for the establishment of a transatlantic single market by 2015.
The ambition is also for the EU to speak for the European countries in NATO and the UN.
Indeed, in the objectionable draft European Constitution there is a requirement that the new EU Foreign Minister should present the EU case in the UN Security Council in certain circumstances.
As a United Kingdom representative, I cannot accept that the European Union should represent us in our dealings with the United States on defence and security matters.
Difficulties arise when other institutions come into the frame.
It is misleading our own citizens and our allies to suggest that the development of an autonomous EU military capability has anything to do with reinforcing NATO or is motivated by the desire to work in close partnership with the United States.
We must, however, work to maintain our dialogue and to cooperate in areas of shared interest.
The fact is that we are working successfully with our United States partners across a full range of foreign policy issues, trade issues and economic issues in a sprit of partnership.
Mr Belder mentioned the Marshall Plan.
The forthcoming EU-US Summit in June is vital.
The Irish presidency is working hard to ensure a successful summit.
I am often shocked when I am in the United States at how often Europe is misunderstood and sometimes misrepresented.
However, I have no doubt that visitors from the United States listening to our debates must sometimes be mystified as to how the United States is perceived, misunderstood and misrepresented here in Europe.
As politicians, we have a responsibility to inform our citizens about the positive aspects of the relationship, notwithstanding the fact that there are occasional blips in it.
While it will not be possible to follow all the advice that has been proffered simultaneously, I feel it important to say that the presidency has listened very carefully to what this House has had to say on this matter. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I would be extremely grateful to you if you were to allow me to say one more thing about trans-Atlantic relations.
The Council Presidency will support this, and so, I am sure will the Commission.
At the same time, though, it has to be said that my committee – unlike the lead Committee – actually takes the view that we should welcome the outcomes of the Commission’s negotiations on air transport, to prevent matters being made more difficult at this present time for people travelling back and forth, and that, here too, we should seek a practical approach in order thereby to strengthen relations even in the age of terrorism. &#160;&#160; I have received one motion for a resolution(1) tabled in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
I would like to thank the House for this opportunity to address the situation in Pakistan.
I know that this is an issue on which there are divided and diverse views.
The Council considers it vitally important that the European Union should continue to strengthen its relationship with Pakistan.
Parliament is aware that the Council is of the view that the agreement is an important element in building an enhanced relationship with Pakistan.
We all know that serious concerns remain in relation to human rights and democratic principles in Pakistan.
The EU ministerial troika expressed its grave concern at these revelations.
The situation within the parliament, where the committee system has yet to be fully established, is far from ideal.
The European Union has raised and will continue to raise with the Pakistani authorities its concern at these issues and the implications they could have for future EU-Pakistan relations.
We are concerned at all these issues.
Nevertheless, on the positive side of the balance sheet, the third generation agreement would strengthen the platform from which the European Union can convey to the Pakistani authorities at the highest level the importance it attaches to relations with Pakistan and, as part of those relations, our concerns on human rights, democratisation, non-proliferation and other vital issues.
I would also mention that the conclusion of the third generation agreement clears the way for immediate conclusion of the technical negotiations already under way between the Commission and Pakistan on the readmission agreement.
It is important to note that there have been a number of other positive developments.
During the ministerial troika visit to Islamabad the EU welcomed the very important agreement that had just been reached by Pakistan and India on modalities for a composite dialogue between the two neighbours, including the issue of Jammu and Kashmir.
President Musharraf's commitment to the fight against terrorism is also to be welcomed.
I am also certain that they will take some satisfaction in it because the vigilance and attention this Parliament has shown on this issue has been helpful.
In summary, while there remain points of concern as regards Pakistan, the Council considers that the European Union must engage with Pakistan on those points rather than isolate it.
This is because I feel we should regard this agreement as an opportunity to engage positively with Pakistan as an important partner in a sensitive region.
First and foremost, by means of Article 1, it offers an opportunity to engage more substantially with Pakistan on critical issues of human rights and democracy.
I myself raised it repeatedly with Minister Kasuri when last I met him in Berlin on 31 March; but I have raised the issue on a number of other occasions as well.
However, I would be the last to say that democracy in Pakistan is in perfect condition.
Any other outcome would hardly bolster confidence in the constitutional process in Pakistan.
I would like to associate myself with what the Minister Roche said about the recent conviction of Javed Hashmi, President of the Alliance for the Restoration of Democracy.
Pakistan is a focus country under the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights, and the Commission is actively trying to address some of these issues.
It is the assessment of this balance that allows me to continue to believe that closer dialogue and cooperation within the structured format offered by the third-generation agreement will best enhance the European Union's capacity to help Pakistan deal with sensitive issues, including human rights, non-proliferation and counter-terrorism.
There is no doubt about the fact that it does not present evidence of fully-fledged democracy, the rule of law, observance of human rights or of the rights of women in the sense in which one would expect on the basis of the United Nations Convention on Human Rights, which is, after all, universal.
For this reason, it is certainly right and necessary that this third-generation cooperation agreement should also be used in such a way that the Council, the Commission and Parliament can work together in monitoring its further progress.
In particular, though, it has to be clear to us that, in what is one of the greatest conflicts Western civilisation has seen, Pakistan is very definitely on the side of those who are fighting terrorism, and that, if there is to be cooperation rather than confrontation, Pakistan’s position in a conflict affecting Iraq and Afghanistan is of the utmost importance.
The EU has not always exploited such possibilities to the full, and Parliament should push harder in future.
The role of the army is unacceptable and the intelligence services are far too powerful.
However, this situation is more likely to improve if we are engaged in the dialogue that the agreement will create, and which will enable us to encourage the forces of progress and modernisation.
The Pakistani diaspora in Europe, which is especially numerous in the UK, can play a very important role in conveying the human rights message.
I find it more likely that Pakistan would quote Article 1 of the agreement, where it says that respect for human rights and democratic principles underpins Pakistan's domestic policies and constitutes an essential element of the agreement.
The Committee on Development and Cooperation has therefore asked the Commission to make an evaluation of the human rights situation after one year.
I should like to ask Commissioner Patten if the Commission is prepared to do that and also, if the situation is not better after one year, to bear the consequences. &#160;&#160; In their decision to abandon the human rights and democracy clause in the Third Generation Agreement with Pakistan, regrettably the Council and the Commission are betraying those in Pakistan – especially those within civil society – who risk their personal safety on a daily basis to defend these principles.
This betrayal is taking place for a combination of unjustified geopolitical reasons and the 'thirty pieces of silver' in trading benefits that some Member States value so much.
I listened today to Minister Roche, Commissioner Patten and Baroness Ludford, who argued that there will be an enhanced human rights dialogue.
Let me remind you that, in the case of Uzbekistan, this Parliament was pressurised into ratifying a similar agreement in 1999 and, since then, the human rights situation has deteriorated further.
I must ask my colleagues in the European Parliament, are we to be the puppets of the Council and the Commission or will we be the democratic voice of the people of Europe, defending freedom and human rights and giving hope to the oppressed people of the world?
If we ratify this agreement we abandon this role in favour of conferring political legitimacy on a quasi-military regime which continues to abuse democracy and human rights and allows nuclear secrets to be sold to rogue states.
I, too, am very sympathetic towards them, but I do think that we, who perhaps represent another outlook, are not led or guided either by the Council or by the Commission, by the USA or the United Kingdom.
As I see it, there has, over the past few months, been some progress in Pakistan’s attitude to Afghanistan and to the Taliban situation, as well as in relation to Kashmir, democracy and human rights.
I am happy, though, to agree with Mr Cushnahan and all those who say that this is far from enough, and that much more has to be done to get Pakistan out of its isolation and moving towards more democracy and human rights.
I would be the first to speak up on behalf of my group and demand our withdrawal from this agreement if the progress that has been begun were not to be continued and completed.
This leads to our undermining respect for our own high principles.
We had the opportunity during that delegation meeting to meet with President Musharraf, and I was much impressed by his commitment to pursuing a programme of peace and reconciliation with India.
It looks, for the first time, as though both sides are prepared to think the previously unthinkable and find a resolution, driven by the economic impact on their two economies of a continuing conflict; a conflict that has dogged the world for the last 50 years.
Nevertheless, there are still enormous problems in Pakistan regarding human rights, democracy and nuclear proliferation.
However, despite that, I will support this third-generation cooperation agreement.
It is about how, by working towards intercultural dialogue, we Europeans are performing what is a primary task for our own age and for our world.
Whatever the reservations expressed in this debate, Pakistan very definitely has a positive role to play in this.
North Korea is not one, but Pakistan is a partner in the fight against international terrorism, and the coalition ranged against that is of course much greater than the coalition of states at present in Iraq fighting terrorism there and fighting against the regime.
The coalition combating international terrorism includes Germany, France, Russia and others.
The way they have dealt with the status of women in Afghanistan should serve as a lesson.
Today, we are dealing with an agreement between the European Union and Pakistan which has no direct financial impact, since the European Community signed a technical cooperation agreement worth EUR 5 million with Pakistan in February.
The main thrust of the agreement put to us is therefore political.
None of this, however, can justify our support for a country where the present authorities came to power by means of a military coup and where the most recent elections were held in circumstances condemned by our observers and resulted in the installation of a coalition of supporters of President Musharraf and Islamist fundamentalist religious parties not afraid to express their support for Bin Laden.
President Musharraf has just adopted an amendment increasing the powers of the armed forces.
The leader of the opposition, Benazir Bhutto, is still in exile and her husband has been in prison for five years.
We do not underestimate the signs of produced under American pressure in relations with Kashmir, but we feel that nothing practical has yet been achieved.
We, as European democrats, cannot continue to bemoan the fate of Aung San Suu Kyi in Burma and go along with such an agreement without some soul-searching.
For all these reasons, I beg you, on behalf of the French socialist delegation, to refer this agreement back to committee. &#160;&#160; Mr President, for three years the Parliament has blocked the association agreement with Pakistan to encourage that country's return to democracy and the observance of human rights.
This Parliament cannot and will not justify any abuse of human rights in the name of the war against terror.
I want the human rights clause to be a more effective part of our association agreements, but I also want that in relation to the agreements which exist today, with Russia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria and Israel.
Nevertheless I support the trade agreement, as I have to recognise that Pakistan has recently made some encouraging moves in human rights, including women's rights, which deserve recognition and reward.
The recent campaign in Waziristan shows Islamabad's intent to prosecute a war against al-Qa'ida strongholds in tribal areas, historically no-go areas for the government of President Musharraf, who has now pressured tribal leaders to hunt down Islamist militants.
I take very much to heart the comments of Chairman Brok; I only hope that the Council and the Commission will maintain a sense of balance should the third generation agreement be ratified.
The Presidency will not lose sight of the fact that there remain many serious negative issues in relation to Pakistan and we will certainly seek to ensure that the Union maintains pressure on the Pakistani authorities during the period of Ireland's presidency.
I am not prepared – though I understand the importance of the issue – to agree to procedures for this agreement that we do not apply to any other, but I note that the agreement itself contains a suspension clause which both sides can invoke in the event of a breach of an essential element of the agreement.
Article 1 of the agreement on human rights and democratic principles is such an essential element.
There is an EU working group on human rights in Islamabad which produces regular reports.
Regular dialogue on human rights will be strengthened once the agreement is in place.
The issues raised are of great importance.
The debate is closed.
Of course, the report welcomes the cooperation established with the Council and emphasises the influence Parliament has been able to exert in the struggle against all forms of discrimination and against the death penalty and in favour of women’s rights and of freedom of religion and conscience.
It regrets, however, that too many of these resolutions are yet to be followed up and that the dialogue on human rights is, in some countries, without substance and of no effect.
Just one example: the tragic case of Leyla Zana, the Sakharov prize-winner, whose conviction was confirmed today by the Turkish courts in an iniquitous ruling.
It may perhaps in the future be necessary to build proper control over human rights in partnership with the country in question, a partnership which respects the country’s culture but which has specific objectives and timescales, as recently initiated in Bangladesh and as may be possible in the future in Morocco and Vietnam.
The report unequivocally condemns all forms of terrorism.
The report refers to infringements of this law which could, owing to the feelings of injustice and despair they engender, produce an even more fertile breeding ground for terrorism.
Looking at the terrifying spread of AIDS in Africa, in Asia, Eastern Europe and even, as you are aware, some of the candidate countries at the very gates of the Union, the urgent need for a response is clear.
In fighting for reproductive health, I am not fighting against any spiritual leaders, whose right to lead their faithful I quite accept.
I am fighting against certain blinkered policies, such as that of President Bush, which, by slashing funds for the reproductive health programme, including contraception by means of condoms, is going to kill thousands and thousands of people.
These people are trying to live full lives and their rights, as we know, are still being flouted in the countries of the Union.
The Commission will, as usual, respond in writing to all the recommendations addressed to us in this report.
This subject of human rights and terrorism will unfortunately remain at the top of the international agenda for some time to come.
My position on the fight against terrorism is clear.
The fight against terrorism must be predicated on respect for human rights, and not the other way around.
Fostering human rights should be an integral part of the fight against terrorism.
The Commission will continue its efforts to promote and protect human rights in cooperation with our partners with all the means at our disposal: political dialogue, development cooperation and work with civil society in third countries.
Two human rights issues which have received much less attention are covered in this admirable report: the right to health – in this case reproductive health – and the pervasive discrimination which, despite their efforts, people with disabilities still face all over the world, and which is compounded in situations of conflict or poverty.
The ability of all people, especially women, to achieve reproductive health is an integral part of their reproductive rights.
The rapporteur is quite right in her account of the dire consequences if the right to reproductive health is denied and also in stating that reproductive health is not a 'women's issue' alone.
However, it is important to note that the social consequences of reproductive ill health can be most severely felt by girls.
Since 1994, the Commission has become a major partner in addressing reproductive health needs in developing countries, in the framework of the goals agreed at the UN International Conference on Population and Development held in Cairo ten years ago.
Furthermore, in July last year, the Council adopted a regulation on aid for policies and actions on reproductive and sexual health and rights in developing countries.
The European Union has demonstrated its commitment to advancing respect for the human rights of people with disabilities through Community legislation which has been introduced on the basis of Article 13 of the EC Treaty to combat discrimination in the field of employment, initiatives pursued as part of follow-up to last year's European Year of Disabled People and through its active engagement on a new UN Convention in this area.
The Commission has further undertaken a number of initiatives as part of our wider efforts to mainstream human rights in all aspects of our development cooperation, including the distribution of specific policy guidance on development and disability for the use of our delegations.
We think the best way of addressing this is through the provision of training for our staff and facilitating exchanges between representatives of disabled people's organisations and policy-makers, by raising awareness of disability issues in our dialogue with developing countries, and by including organisations for people with disabilities in the dialogue at country level.
Lastly, this excellent report highlights the anguish caused by one of the most pernicious causes of unnecessary disability in many countries, that is the use of anti-personnel landmines.
The strategy for mine action in the period 2002-2004 relates EU action to the goals set by the international community in the context of the Ottawa Convention.
I have been privileged to see the work we are doing in this sector from Sri Lanka to the Balkans.
It is enormously important and it is valuable, as are the other points made in this report, that the honourable Member has drawn this matter to the attention of the Parliament and to European public opinion as a whole.
The report will be part of a very important discourse.
I should like to say a few words about our relationship with the Commission.
The annual report of Parliament rightly makes reference to the large degree of congruence between the European Parliament's priorities as expressed in its resolutions and the EU action taken at sessions in the Human Rights Commission.
Indeed this is one of the recommendations of the General Affairs and External Relations Council in their conclusions on 10 December 2002, concerning human rights and the democratisation of third countries.
A resolution on Israeli settlements in the occupied Arab territories was also adopted by the Commission.
The thematic resolutions tabled by the European Union have also been successfully steered to adoption.
The Union's resolution on the elimination of all forms of religious intolerance, for example, has been adopted by consensus.
The resolution on the rights of the child was adopted by mere unanimity following a call for a vote by the United States.
I expect that the Commission will also adopt the European Union's resolution on the death penalty later this week.
However, a number of important United Nations-EU initiatives have fallen.
It also reflects the unwillingness of some regional groups to accept any condemnation of their members.
An initiative from the EU on Chechnya was defeated and our resolution on Zimbabwe fell to a 'No Action' motion.
Not least, we need to decide on whether our priority is to make Union declarations so that the world knows where we stand, or to see our texts in fact adopted by a majority of members of the Commission.
I want to deal with three priority areas that are mentioned in the report.
In regard to disability, I was struck when reading the report by the reference to the fact that three-quarters of disabled people live in developing countries.
The incidence and intensity of disability in the developing world is aggravated by poverty and, as Commissioner Patten has said, by conflict.
It is a horrific fact that a huge amount of mutilation and disability flows from the use of landmines produced in so-called developed, civilised nations and then exported to the third world.
In the context of reproductive health, the annual report highlights the worrying increase in the prevalence of HIV/AIDS in eastern Europe and in central Asia, and the relationship between poverty and reproductive health issues.
The Irish presidency has recognised the importance of addressing the AIDS issue and it is way beyond the capacity of any one government to solve.
On reproductive health in general, I want to state that the European Union will unstintingly work to ensure that the rights to reproductive health care and services accepted in all basic documents of the major UN conferences would be implemented.
This commitment is demonstrated by the regulation, adopted by the European Council in July 2003, on aid for policies and actions on reproductive health.
This is a common theme that has run through so many of the debates in this House: we all are interested in a common fight against terrorism but we must also make sure that the fight is balanced with respect for human rights for democratic principles and for the rule of law.
At the same time, that fight has posed new challenges for the promotion and protection of human rights.
All states have a duty to protect their citizens from terrorist attack and to combat terrorism in all its forms.
Yet, in order to receive the widest possible support and to be successful in the long term, the fight against terrorism must be conducted in full respect of human rights and in full respect of fundamental freedoms.
Fostering human rights should indeed become an integral part of any fight against terrorism.
To seek to understand the causes of terrorism should not be understood as being in any way soft on terrorism or on the terrorists.
The European Union has traditionally attached great importance to the work performed by all human rights defenders, including those in the media.
Human rights defenders have become increasingly effective in ensuring greater protection to victims of human rights violations.
However, this progress has frequently been achieved at a high price and at high individual cost.
The defenders themselves have increasingly become the targets of attacks and their rights have been violated in too many countries.
While the European Union has attached importance to the protection of human rights defenders this has been largely done on an ad hoc basis to date.
The Irish presidency is working to produce specific policy guidelines in order to strengthen the European Union’s support for human rights defenders.
These guidelines will shortly be brought before the Council of Ministers.
On behalf of the Council, the presidency welcomes this collaboration with Parliament in further advancing our common cause of democracy and human rights.
The standards to be applied are to be found in the international agreements protecting human rights.
This year’s report, however – in contrast to all its predecessors during this legislative period – has not been born under an auspicious star.
Of course, their rights as citizens of the State with equal status must be enforced, and demeaning treatment in public facilities must be denounced.
The fact is that those things that are guaranteed as human rights can be claimed as legal entitlements, and those who fail to provide them are violating human rights, but no single constitution, not one international convention – European or otherwise – declares the detailed demands you make here to be actionable human rights.
If they were to do so, the Mayor of Rabat or his counterpart in Lagos would be violating human rights by failing to comply with your demand that the city’s buses should be equipped with doors that disabled people can use.
There is no human right to the distribution of free condoms either, but, in this case, it is a goal to be achieved.
The President of South Africa, Thabo Mbeki, may well have the wrong idea about how to combat Aids, but that does not make him a violator of human rights.
The consensus on human rights in this House has lasted for many years, but, as I see it, your report does nothing to help maintain it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in Britain a man suffocated to death his 40-year-old brother who had Huntington's Disease.
In a residential home in the Netherlands, five elderly people with dementia were hit, spat at, kicked and called names by three nurses.
Social workers knew about this for 25 years.
The most important reason for such violations is often the retention or indeed, conquest, of power at all costs.
This week, we are commemorating the massacre in Rwanda.
The question is to what extent this has had an effect in practice.
Since my report, cooperation with the Council has considerably improved on a number of levels.
We on our part would do well to ensure that the human rights report is published on a set date every year, so that it is possible to include a verdict about the Council report and also about the solutions brought by the UN human rights committee.
In addition, our Parliament should follow up human rights violations where we have identified them more systematically.
Despite this, my group supports the content, even where the rights of the disabled and reproductive health are concerned.
After all, it goes against any fundamental sense of justice that someone should die due to a lack of medical care.
Our Christian Democrat friends should agree on this, even if it involves non-enforceable rights.
Finally, I should once again like to highlight the increasing abuse of religions for political ends and radicalism.
Given the seriousness of the threat and the reality of Madrid, I would repeat last year's appeal that the European Union will need to map out the problem in all its dimensions and should draft a strategy to prevent this religious extremism.
The European Union prides itself on being a community of values.
That means that our human rights policy should become less non-committal; it also entails an obligation to work to propagate a level of civilisation at which large-scale human rights violations are a thing of the past. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the annual report on human rights is once again, unfortunately, the occasion on which we acknowledge that the world situation is becoming worse.
The law of the jungle and the option of repression and military intervention are supplanting the principles and values of international law.
The list is a long one, and includes Turkey, where Leyla Zana and her companions have just been unjustly condemned, once again, for speaking out on behalf of the Kurdish people; Tunisia, where harassment and repression of any democrat are increasing, a phenomenon to which the European Union is indifferent; Morocco, where violations of the rights of the Sahrawi people are increasing in occupied Western Sahara; Iraq, where US occupying forces are causing real human tragedies, buying up the country’s natural resources at low prices and taking upon themselves the right to behave like masters, and Palestine where, in the words of Avraham Burg, the former Speaker of the Knesset, the situation is so explosive that, ‘crying out is a moral imperative’.
One could also mention the intolerable harassment of those who defend human rights all over the world.
According to the 2003 Annual Report of the International Federation for Human Rights Observatory for the Protection of Human Rights Defenders, ‘The present climate that focuses on security first and the implementation of arbitrary measures restricting individual freedoms undermines the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
However, now more than ever, support and encouragement for these men and women in their struggle for democracy, justice and peace are proving to be vital to our common future.
Finally, respect and guarantees for fundamental rights such as the right to sovereignty, the right to food self-sufficiency, the right to health, and the right to live in dignity and not in misery, are also playing their part in the building of a better world.
In that sense I support the rapporteur’s action, particularly as regards reproductive health. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, we can accept the changes in substance, despite the restricted emphasis on some details.
At the same time, however, I want more generally to draw attention to the methods that have been used, which this time have been scandalous.
Thus, their implementation requires political choices to be made and it will also have a political impact.
In this sense human rights begins at home and that is mainly what the issue is now. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the speech we have just heard.
I acknowledge that the report is better than the original version that was rejected in the parliamentary committee, but nevertheless, I wish to make some observations on my own behalf and on behalf of my group.
First of all, a few words on the Sakharov Prize and the three winners of this prize, who continue to be persecuted.
The resolution lacks balance, with the explanatory statement citing three cases in Turkey, Burma and Cuba whereas paragraph 23 of the final resolution ignores the situation of Osvaldo Payá in Cuba.
Secondly, where terrorism is concerned, we have still not achieved a properly balanced approach.
Above all, however, I wish to express my reservations as to the way in which the issue of reproductive health has been brought into this matter and especially as regards the link that is made between abortion and reproductive health – something with which I wholeheartedly disagree.
To quote only a few figures from the report, its explanatory statement claims that 100 abortions take place every minute and that 70&#160;000 women die each year from unsafe abortions.
I have done some calculations and this means that 52&#160;560 children die in non-leap years and 52&#160;700 in leap years, in addition to these 70&#160;000 women.
Only 11% of women in a country like Zambia think that they have the right to ask their husbands to use a condom.
Up to half the young women and girls in developing countries say that they were forced into their first sexual experience.
These women desperately need to know that sexual and reproductive health is a right.
I am appalled that some colleagues in this House want to deprive women of these rights in trying to suppress a chapter making them explicit in the human rights report.
Formally, terrorism is condemned – just as well – whereupon the report spends many paragraphs on the human rights of terrorists or those accused of terrorist acts.
Moreover, this is a report on human rights in the world, which means the world outside of the European Union, while we would perhaps do well to look closer to home.
I have another concern: at a time when international terrorism ranks among our greatest anxieties, we all too often see terrorists and their front organisations and political apologists abuse the human rights label for their own purposes as a political weapon and as a means of reducing the effectiveness of the security forces operating against them.
The report before us contains all of these faults.
Whilst swiping at the current targets of the left - the United States and Israel - it misses the opportunity to expose those corrupt regimes on many continents that keep their people in misery, and offers very little support to the victims of terrorism or those engaged in fighting terrorism.
In regard to the Israel-Palestine question, paragraph 46 of the report infers that settlement activity outside Israel's borders is somehow comparable to indiscriminate terrorist attacks on innocent civilians inside Israel.
In regard to the issue of Guantanamo Bay, the report offers excessive comfort to those detained in Camp Delta, while ignoring the difficulties faced by our democracies in dealing with fanatics who are intent on menacing and murdering innocent civilians.
I would like to see a call for tough action by the EU and the rest of the international community to bring about real change in the countries that are the real human rights abusers, like Zimbabwe.
Legitimising a regime that, through a military coup, has seized power and does not respect human rights should be quite alien to the EU.
Yesterday, those of us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy were able to listen to the Geneva Initiative and representatives from both Israel and Palestine, confirming what is described in, for example, items 46 and 47 of this report but which the group on the Right now wishes to vote away.
Closing one’s eyes to reality has never led to genuine solutions to problems.
Women’s rights are human rights.
Every minute, 100 abortions are carried out, half of them by people with no medical training.
Every year, 70&#160;000 women die following unsafe abortions.
In the developing countries, reproductive problems are the most important cause of death and disablement.
In this situation, refusing to support organisations that provide advice on contraception and consciously helping bring about a situation in which hundreds of thousands of women undergo unsafe abortions and die prematurely and in which hundreds of thousands of women are infected with HIV each year constitute a profound violation of human rights and a serious risk to women’s reproductive health. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in the eyes of the surrounding world, the EU’s work on human rights is of very great significance.
Rogue states, which we condemn in our reports, despatch their ambassadors with a view to having references to their countries removed at any price.
Conversely, a resolution by Parliament sometimes gives hope and renewed courage to those throughout the world who are imprisoned, tortured and oppressed or who are engaged in struggle.
Committed people look to the EU to play an active role in working for a better world.
They are sometimes disappointed when we choose to close our eyes to serious crimes because trade policy or strategic interests come before such gross violations.
It is very odd that there should be protests from the right wing about these issues not belonging in a report on human rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, after the collapse of the Berlin Wall, many people thought that the end of the cold war meant that we would finally have a world at peace.
Far from weakening private terrorism, this arsenal actually tends to criminalise any opposition to the establishment of this new order, such as trade-union, associative or anti-globalisation movements.
Unfortunately, the European Union has participated in this undertaking, with a definition of terrorism which is fatal to liberty, by adopting the European arrest warrant or the many laws against immigrants, not to mention those governments which still, in Europe, dare to prohibit abortion.
Even now, however, we can take practical steps, for example by regularising the situation of illegal immigrants, prohibiting collective deportations on charter flights, insisting that the Council freezes the association agreements with Israel, reorganising the distribution of wealth, in particular by imposing a Tobin tax on movements of capital, or, finally, cancelling third world debt. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, today this House is examining the human rights situation and European policy in relation to third countries.
Aktham Naissé, Chairman of the Committees for the Defence of Democratic Freedoms and Human Rights in Syria, was arrested on 13 April by the military security forces.
Yet the Commission’s delegation to Damascus has already witnessed several of these violations.
Agreements of this type are based on the rule of law, and Article 2 of such agreements clearly stipulates an undertaking, on the part of both parties, to respect human rights.
In Syria, a state of emergency has been in existence for 41 years, thus enabling martial law to be applied by means of military courts.
This is contrary to the rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms as guaranteed by international law and the Barcelona Declaration.
Exactly one month ago, on 22 March in Athens, we created the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, of which Syria is a member.
Such a partnership can only be constructed on the basis of certain requirements such as respect for human rights and democratic freedoms.
I should therefore like to ask you to intervene as a matter of urgency with the Syrian authorities, and ask them to guarantee the integrity of the people I have just referred to, to order their immediate and unconditional release, to put an end to the constant pressure and harassment, to respect international law and to comply with the provisions of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the international instruments which have been ratified by Syria.
If we do not use them to ensure that our universal values are respected we shall lose our souls.
Like other Members, we Italian radicals actually pay a lot of attention to anything to do with reproductive health, to the whole dimension, this new dimension which our society increasingly has to take into account in the way in which it perceives the issue of human rights, including, for example, the right to health, which now means the new technologies, genetic research, and all kinds of possibilities which are now available to mankind but which are still a problem, a stumbling block, in many of our societies.
We shall therefore be voting in favour of all amendments along these lines tomorrow, in the hope of enhancing Mrs De Keyser’s report.
These people form an aboriginal population, the oldest in Vietnam, which is suffering oppression at the hands of the regime in Hanoi.
That oppression became manifest, a few days ago, in the brutal police action taken in order to disperse demonstrators, as also happened in another country, as we have just heard.
I know that time has run out, but since we talk about indigenous peoples in this report, I should like, tomorrow, with the agreement of my fellow Members, to table an oral amendment with a view to inserting the briefest reference to the mountain people of Vietnam, so as to remind the authorities in Hanoi that the European Parliament has taken their situation to heart.
Mr Patten has often taken action on this matter, and some European countries have intervened too.
I believe that it would be to our credit to mention, when we vote tomorrow, the oppression being suffered by the mountain people of Vietnam. &#160;&#160; Mr President, However, there is a worrying undercurrent in the way human rights and terrorism have been addressed.
Mr President, unless there is an electoral miracle in June, or a mass self-sacrificing resignation among my colleagues, this is the last occasion on which I shall have the pleasure to address this distinguished and honourable House.
May I, with your indulgence President, take this opportunity to put on record my sincerest thanks to the Members of this House, the staff here and in Brussels, and above all my colleagues in the British Conservative delegation for the generosity, kindness, help, sympathy and often-needed support that all have given me over the past five years.
Many thanks for this very personal farewell to this House; perhaps you will come back after all. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I had prepared a speech, which I decided to put aside after listening to the comments made by some Members from the Right.
I believe that as long as criticism is bandied around in this House – as if we were putting Galileo on trial – every time that we deal with the issue of women’s rights, and as long as we use the word ‘obsession’ when talking about rights, our debates will do no more than give work to the stenographers.
We would have expected greater severity and more passion from some right-wing Members when, for example, denouncing the legal gap that exists – which runs counter to all the rules of international law – on the status of the Guantanamo Bay prisoners.
We would have expected passion and severity in denouncing the arbitrary use that is, unfortunately, often made of the fight against terrorism to repress dissidents.
I am talking about the issue of the relationship between human rights and the war on terrorism and, to be more specific, the challenge which the war on terrorism poses to democracy.
This showed that powerful countries can still get away with murder, torture and the silencing of critics just days before news emerged about the discovery in Chechnya of the bodies of nine men who had been extra-judicially executed.
The United States has sponsored a mildly-worded resolution on China that encourages the Chinese Government to make substantive progress in systematic reforms to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
However, China was victorious in a procedural initiative at the UN with a no-action motion to prevent the resolution from coming to a vote.
In Zimbabwe, there is a chronic situation of human rights abuses, yet the United Nations is not taking any action.
It simply cannot be that countries with poor human rights records use a no-action motion to block discussion of their own human rights practices.
The UN Commission's purpose is to publicly air the human rights situation in any country, especially in the case of egregious violators.
Let me mention what is happening in Zanzibar, with its criminalisation and arrests of homosexuals, and where the EU has a mechanism through which it can act - the Cotonou Agreement - but does not seem to have the political will to do so.
Similarly, when there have been breakdowns of the human rights clauses in our EU Association agreements and we have called for action, those calls have been ignored.
I praise the Irish Presidency for its work at the UN in supporting the Brazilian motion on human rights and sexual orientation.
The dignity of any society is based on respect for the dignity of those individuals.
Finally, this report sends out a powerful message that what happens in another part of the world is as important to this House and the Member States as if it were happening in Europe.
It is good to remind ourselves of the situation in China, but we have problems right here amongst ourselves.
The uncontrolled political influence that the big proprietors of the media have is something that is familiar to us all.
There is also a new danger here.
To sum up, this debate underlines the value of our focus on enhancing the dialogue between Parliament and Council in the area of human rights.
The contributions covered a remarkably wide range of topics and this is obviously an area where Members have not only a particular interest, but also very considerable expertise.
I know the presidency and the Council will benefit greatly from exchanges that we have had here.
The work of the Commission on Human Rights is continuing in Geneva as we speak.
I mentioned earlier some of the resolutions that we have adopted in relation to the human rights situations in Belarus, Turkmenistan, North Korea and the Israeli Settlements in the Occupied Arab Territories.
Work on other resolutions goes on but we can be proud of the role the European Union is playing via the Commission and of the work of the Commission to date.
Members are obviously very concerned at the human rights aspects of the progress of the war on terror.
The representatives of the Union in Hanoi have received guidance in this connection.
Earlier today, the Commission on Human Rights adopted the European Union's resolution on the death penalty by 28 votes to 20, with 5 abstentions.
However, this is good news and I am pleased to share it with the House. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The regulation which you are being asked to extend by two years, until the end of the present financial perspective in 2006, is one of the two legal bases for the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights.
As you are well aware, the initiative is an extremely important element of the European Union’s overall policy on promoting human rights and democratisation in third countries.
In 1999, the European Parliament itself was fully involved in drawing up the regulations underlying the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights, moulding the objectives of the initiative and setting its priorities, as well as shaping the administrative procedures for its implementation.
I am very pleased to see now that the honourable Member's report fully supports the Commission in securing an extension of the initiative beyond the end of this year, subject to some amendments.
These exchanges have focused essentially on two important issues: firstly, how to more effectively involve the European Parliament in political priority setting for implementation of the initiative and, secondly, how to further improve the performance and practical relevance of the initiative with a view to democracy building and strengthening human rights in the world.
The Commission has listened carefully to the views expressed by honourable Members and is ready to examine in a constructive spirit all ideas that have been put to it in order to ensure that what we do, under the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights, is better focused and more effective.
More specifically, I would like to state that the Commission is committed to setting up a structured and regular dialogue on the initiative with the competent committees of the European Parliament, led by the responsible Commissioner and supported by his or her own services.
This will enable us to exchange views in good time on planned multiannual programming documents, annual programming updates and work programmes, or amendments to them.
In conclusion, let me reiterate the Commission’s appreciation of the constructive spirit shown by this House and its support for continued effective operation of the initiative beyond the end of this year.
As Commissioner Nielson has just told us, we are talking about a proposed regulatory modification which, in the Commission's opinion, according to what the Commission services have told us, affects purely technical aspects - he did not mention this specifically – and comes closer to what Parliament believes has always had an unquestionably political content, if only because the intention is to extend by two years the duration and the operational capacity of an instrument which according to all the reports and opinions received, and which are mentioned by the Council's communication, is of very great interest.
Nevertheless, Parliament considers that, as proposed in the Council's draft, the participation of our institution in the different stages of the procedure does not meet our aspirations, particularly in an area which is subject to co-decision.
Before dealing with certain technical comments on our proposal, I must point out, Mr President, that there is a technical corrigendum which the services of Parliament must be aware of at this point, which changes the order of the amendments we are proposing and which we will vote on tomorrow.
The experience of all of us who have participated in missions of electoral observers tells us that, despite all the restrictions we might wish to mention, the presence of international observers in elections increases trust in transparency and strict compliance with democratic principles in developing countries.
Parliament does not wish to give up its participation in the programming phase, in establishing priorities and in implementing initiatives.
In my view, Amendment No 3, which appears in the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, should be withdrawn by its rapporteur.
This is the best agreement possible if our intention is to approve this report at first reading, as the Council, the Commission and Parliament wish, in order to respond to a widely shared demand.
Furthermore, it is particularly necessary for the strengthening of civil society in developing countries.
It is a co-decision procedure, an issue that affects human rights and fundamental freedoms, which this House has been very sensitive to for many years.
Parliament believes that when it is a question of establishing a new programme and not just an extension for the next two years, as in the case we are debating today, we will demand a greater presence and more active participation within the framework of the rules regulating the Union’s institutional dialogue, on which those who succeed us here in the next legislature will have to establish a new framework which provides an equal basis so that this desire on the part of Parliament is fulfilled. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the bad news for the Commission and Council is that I expect to be back in the next Parliament and I am the rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy on the regulation covering third countries.
It is quite clear that the Committee on Development and Cooperation is content with the operations under the European initiative for democracy and human rights and it is understandable that two-thirds of the money should now be released for next year.
Its members have agreed that we should withdraw my report, which should have been debated today, to allow us time to put more pressure on the Commission and Council over the coming weeks to agree to two very simple requests.
The first request is that an advisory committee should be set up – outside comitology, composed of representatives of Parliament and the Commission and probably chaired by the High Representative – to deal with this fundamentally sensitive programme, which should not necessarily involve the developing countries but rather the countries nearer to us - the 'new neighbourhood' as it is now described.
That is our position and we look forward to some proper reaction from the Commission and Council to these suggestions in due course.
The majority of the countries to which the regulation applies are in reality developing countries.
We understand the importance of getting this report through at first reading.
By asking the Commission to produce an annual report setting out programming for the coming year by region and by sector, we wish considerably to increase the transparency of the work on the regulation.
It is important that the decisions taken on a human rights basis reflect the EU’s commitments to support democracy, international law and, naturally, respect for human rights.
The additional proposals initially tabled were aimed at ensuring that our decisions on human rights were based upon our own anxiety concerning the security of the European Union.
We must protect human dignity when it comes to our measures concerning human rights, cooperation and the development of aid and ensure that the primary focus of these measures is always the consolidation of democracy, international law and human rights and the eradication of poverty.
Above all, the question is whether the instruments to implement this programme are as flexible as the situation requires because, clearly, the situation is not rigid and bureaucratic as our rules are at times.
Commissioner Patten has written a letter to us about the other regulation, for which no codecision procedure is planned, in which he proposes involving Parliament much more in the new approach to revising these regulations from 2006 onwards.
Thus, maintaining the amendment would scupper our joint efforts and the objective of facilitating a first reading agreement under the codecision procedure.
I thank Parliament for the constructive spirit in which it has been handled. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I believe that the European Cities of Culture, now to be called European Capitals of Culture, have in that sense, over the years, assumed great importance in the European cultural landscape.
Of course, the formula has developed over time: the scheme was launched in 1985 on the initiative of Melina Mercouri, and cities were originally designated by means of an inter-governmental process.
It will be one stage because we are on the eve of a historic event which will change the destiny of the European Union.
The purpose of this proposal is to allow the rapid integration of the new Member States into the ‘European Capital of Culture’ initiative.
A study is in progress involving the European Capitals of Culture for the years 1995 to 2004.
The results of that study, which will become known in the second half of 2004, will form the basis of our reflections and later, I presume, of the action we take to develop new rules.
The integration of the new Member States is already a priority, and it needs to be done very quickly.
That is why the Commission wishes to separate the stage involving the integration of the new Member States from the debate on the need to remodel the whole procedure.
The Commission therefore proposes, at this stage, simply to add the new Member States, by 2009, to the list drawn up by the decision, alongside the current Member States already designated, in alphabetical order.
That order had already been decided, moreover, by a joint agreement between the Council and Parliament in 1999, and it is on that basis that the cities in question are currently preparing for the years to come.
Thus from 2009 onwards, two capitals will be designated each year, one for the current Member States and a second one for the new Member States.
We need to be aware that, if we omit this stage, and start straight away on a remodelling of the procedure, the new Member States will not be able to participate in the scheme until, at best, 2010 or 2011, or perhaps 2012, because it takes four years to prepare for the event, and the designations for 2008 will be made this year.
This is equivalent to a substantial amendment to the designation procedure and is therefore a change to the Commission’s proposal.
On the other hand, Amendment No 1, which is concerned with adjusting the budget in the light of the fact that there will be at least two ‘Capitals’ per year, is acceptable.
In fact we shall have to take into account this doubling of the number of cities involved when we come to evaluate any proposal for a programme to carry on from Culture 2000 with effect from 2007 onwards.
Provision has, in fact, been made for funding in the context of that programme and not by virtue of the 1999 decision.
Nor is the Commission able to accept Amendments Nos&#160;6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 tabled on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group.
At first, Mr President, that idea had a brilliant future, at a time when fierce competition brought together a number of candidate cities in a contest to win a single designation, and when a jury of experts gave its verdict on the real European interests of each of the plans of the candidate cities.
those beginning in 1999 and 2004, from exercising, for five years, its powers to contribute towards the annual choice of the European Capital of Culture.
Finally – and this is at least as serious – although some Member States have submitted to the European institutions and the jury a list of two or three cities, thereby enabling a real choice to be made between them on the basis of the dynamism, innovation and European dimension of the projects, not all have done so.
Member States’ recent choices have often related to a single city, chosen for reasons concerned with the local-election policies of the government currently in power, and without the city in question having shown any real interest in assuming this role.
At the beginning of this debate, several months ago, my committee agreed unanimously with that.
The Commission’s promise to submit to us, in autumn, a new draft decision amending this system, is merely a decoy.
If we adopt this draft now, Commissioner, I do not see how, in autumn, we can go back on the date of 2019, the order in which Member States are listed and, above all, the fact that two capitals a year will be designated, leaving that task to the two Member States in question.
That is my prediction.
The three Member States involved in the crucial period of 2009 to 2011, which are Austria, Germany and Finland, have been afraid that their designation will be called into question, though no one was actually thinking of this.
We are faced with a decision which serves the prestige interests of our Member States, but surely not those of Europe, which would have been to revitalise and give back the sparkle to what was an excellent procedure.
After all, my mother brought me up properly and I am still a polite boy.
However, our Green friends took up these amendments again, as is their right.
These amendments are aimed at going back to the old system and to committing ourselves for the future only as far as 2010, reserving the right of the next Parliament to ask the Commission to propose, in autumn, a new list of Member States including the new ones, and to order those who can to organise a broad competition between cities, so that after some candidates have been eliminated the final decision is left to the jury of experts, which needs to be given that role if it is to be of any use, and to the European institutions.
The other set of amendments, which comes mainly from the PPE Group, validates and sets out in detail the Commission’s proposal which, in my opinion, makes any decision this coming autumn completely pointless.
This set of amendments claims to encourage competition between cities but it does not explain how, because it does not deal with the problem of the numerous smaller Member States which have only one important city, which would call for a revision of the list of Member States, which is something which will have to be done in the autumn.
The idea has been around for a long time now; it originated with a Greek lady Member of this House, and I think we can take pride in it.
It was after all we who introduced this idea, and I think, Commissioner, that it can be put into practice right now.
I therefore ask her to consider whether she cannot perhaps incorporate this.
We in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, though, endorse the Commissioner’s proposal for two Capitals of Culture, simply because the 10 new Member States cannot do anything about the shameless conduct of the old 15.
The two countries have marvellous things in common and the rivalries between them have been productive.
It is for that reason that I, like my group, support the Commissioner’s proposal. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner Reding, thanks are due to Melina Mercouri for coming up with the idea of a European Capital of Culture, since being the European Capital of Culture is a challenge to reflect contemporary artistic creativity; it promotes discussion and enables people to make their minds up; it promotes awareness of the values of our cultural heritage and leaves behind visible signs, such as, for example, the in Graz, which was last year’s Capital of Culture, a building which, even though it is also very important that such signs should also reflect modern architecture, has been the subject of much debate.
I agree with my fellow-Members and with those who have spoken before me that the decision taken in 1999 was quite simply wrong.
If we are in future to have two Capitals of Culture, that surely must not mean that, when giving them a financial basis, we split the existing grants in two, but rather that we double them.
There is no need to go into the appalling nature of the decision in 1999, which established selection entirely leaving out the ten countries that are joining us in less than a month.
The solution proposed by the Commission, which aimed to split the procedure in two, would mean that for much too long a period – until 2019&#160;– there would be two colleges, which is quite the opposite to integration.
Integration does not mean continuing with two colleges within the Union and its selection and decision-making processes made up of old and new Member States.
Therefore, and also for other reasons, I think it is wise to stop this in 2010.
This is the quality that the new selection process, which we say we want, needs to reaffirm, definitely through competition, also taking into account the events that are taking place at the moment, such as Lille 2004.
These collective comments from a network of cultural players and artists in a city or region where the ‘European Capital of Culture’ project is taking place, in Lille, should attract the attention and interest of the evaluation that is underway and encourage care.
Glasgow's urban renaissance provided a blueprint for others and I am sure that Liverpool - the home of the Beatles as nobody needs reminding - will have great success during its year in 2008.
As an MEP from the south-east of England, I am only sorry that our candidates of Canterbury, Brighton and Oxford were not chosen.
Any one of them would have been a great Capital of Culture.
As an English Conservative I have great respect for our French Socialist President of the Committee on Culture; I admire the first quality, I will excuse the second!
It has been said, and quite rightly, that it was utterly egoistic of the Council to come to a snap decision to make use of all the present Member States by 2019, in the full knowledge that we would have unification to deal with, in the shape of enlargement.
In Germany, 17 cities are seeking to be the Capital of Culture for 2010.
They have applied and are engaged in a contest that I believe can point the way ahead.
Now, though, I think we should do everything possible to make the best of it, in the interests of the countries concerned and, above all, of European culture.
What will then be important is that the concept, the vision, that underlies the concept of a European Capital of Culture should play more of a role.
From this point of view, I do see the resolution we are now adopting as being – if you go back to its origins – a great opportunity for Europe’s cultural diversity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before I start I would like to say that I have been a Member of the European Parliament for just 19 days and this is my first speech to this illustrious House, and perhaps the last, but I do not think it is audacious of me to talk about culture today, because for the last eight years I have been Managing Director of , a European channel which has observed and broadcast the activities of Parliament, the Commission and the Council, but which has also put an enormous amount of effort into observing and broadcasting European cultural activities, whether official or not.
In sport we have two Olympic games, in winter and in summer, within the same year, and no harm is done.
I personally and my group therefore support the Commission’s position of naming two cities as European capitals of culture.
This is provided for, to a degree, by having two cities from two different countries within the same year.
We hope that the Commission can resolve this issue. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Vila.
We have done some good work over the last few years.
This is why, while we hope to soon have a new treaty establishing majority decisions on cultural matters, which would help us enormously to make progress in many areas, we should propose a radical review as soon as possible of the way in which European capitals of culture are chosen.
The first is that I agree with those of you who have said that a repair solution may be an opportunity for the future.
The jury protested.
This is to show you that if we are really doing our job and pushing the cities to be better, to be really European in their cultural choices, the result can be very positive.
The same applies to Liverpool.
I hope that the good examples of the past will be followed in the future, and I wish all citizens and all those involved in culture courage and pleasure as they meet in the future in the cultural cities of Europe. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
On 17 December 2003, the Commission adopted a proposal aimed at rationalising the European situation in terms of transparency of qualifications and competences.
Through this initiative we wished to provide real assistance to all those who want to have their qualifications recognised in another Member State, to give them more opportunities to find a job.
Europass is supposed to be an open framework, and other documents may be added in the future.
Amendment No 5, which highlights the role of social partners in the development of future sectoral initiatives, is in principle acceptable to the Commission.
This modification is also acceptable.
The same applies to Amendment No 8, which can be modified in the same way.
One of the main reasons for the fact that mobility has not yet been completely achieved is a lack of transparency of qualifications and competences.
The lack of transparency, as we all know, is the most important obstacle to mobility in terms of training and professional activity and a significant block to making the labour market in Europe more flexible.
This Commission proposal is an exceptionally good one, in that it makes it easier for citizens to gain access to opportunities for mobility.
The Commission has already said that in the new Europass portfolio five existing opportunities for mobility will be combined, namely the European career structure, the addition to the diploma, the existing Europass for professional training and references and, also extremely important, the European language portfolio.
As already mentioned, these instruments already exist.
The important thing, however, is that it is an open portfolio, and I believe there are two reasons for this.
In the first place, citizens can search for documents that are relevant to them.
Secondly, this open system enables further documents to be included in the portfolio.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, for whom I have produced this opinion, has not only taken the project seriously and welcomed it, but we have also integrated it in our work.
For these reasons, we have made various proposals and additions, which we regard as important, for example the inclusion of third-state nationals – we regard this as a symbol of fairness – the inclusion of the social partners in order to make use of their know-how, the consideration to be given to social integration and, last but not least, more and better information for the public, providers of education and training and social partners, especially for small- and medium-sized enterprises.
So it will be necessary also to conduct a campaign of explanation and information.
This means that there is a need for clear decisions on the European career structure.
I also believe that there are very many opportunities to help young people to find their way in this huge labour market and in turn to be found on the basis of their qualifications.
Its use, significance and added value must be made clearly intelligible to every user and person filling in the forms.
As it is the purpose of the new generation of programmes, including the Leonardo programme, to achieve 150&#160;000 trainees a year, it is absolutely vital that training providers should know about the Europass.
I see the Europass as vital, provided that it is not only an opportunity for formal qualification but also for informal competence.
Both in the learning process and in professional life, mobility is required.
For young people to be able to achieve an overview of this jungle of support and exchange programmes, the competent agencies, working with the Commission, should produce guidelines for mobility, making available exchange and support programmes, the names and addresses of people to contact, as well as links, so that the added value of Europe is evident to everyone. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to join with my colleagues in congratulating the rapporteur for her work and also the Commissioner for the tremendous effort which has been put into this.
I am not certain whether that has finally been agreed.
I know that the Council presidency has been in contact with the rapporteur and others to try and achieve this result.
As the Commissioner, the rapporteur, the draftsperson and other speakers rightly said, this is one of the key elements with regard to which we in the European Union institutions can point to how we improve people's lives on the ground; how we make their lives easier, both at work and in education.
Since the late 1980s we have had this idea of a single market with free movement of people, goods and services, but the bureaucracy and the lack of recognition of qualifications and services was so great that there was no true free movement of people.
This single framework aspect as proposed by the rapporteur is a positive move towards that.
The debate is closed.
Perhaps in Eurostat's case this is the best thing.
The problem here is that the Commissioners are happy to make great political statements on policy but absolutely refuse to take political responsibility for problems that occur in their DGs.
In this case, EUR 5 million went missing because of fraud and bad management controls.
However, if you compare this to the Eurostat case, where after more than a year of investigations we have basically nothing, it begs the question of the priorities of various individuals within the DG responsible.
During the discharge process for 2001, Eurostat was one of our rapporteur's key themes.
Many MEPs are now on record as saying that if they had been given all the facts at the time, they would have voted against discharge for those accounts last year.
If the Commission and the leaders of all the political groups in this Parliament had put half as much energy into solving the systemic problems shown up by the Eurostat case as they have in trying to block this motion from having an airing on the floor of the House, then all these problems could have been solved years ago.
This has resulted in a thorough restructuring of the Eurostat Directorate-General and its operations.
In addition to the statement made by my colleague on behalf of the Commission, I would like to emphasise the measures regarding in particular the revision of the code of conduct, the improvement of the flow of information related to fraud allegations, as well as a revision of the legal framework of OLAF.
Firstly, revising the code of conduct that governs relations between the Commissioners and their services and which emphasises the political responsibility of the Commissioner, as well as that of the Director-General or the head of service.
The new code includes specific procedures requiring the Commissioner to be informed about any fact, situation or question concerning management – especially financial management – the gravity of which could invoke the responsibility of the Commissioner or the college.
Thirdly, strengthening information circuits between the central services and operational services, especially in the areas of control and internal audit.
These measures derive essentially from the recommendations which the internal auditor made in his report on DG Eurostat's contracts - informing and training staff about the different mechanisms in place for whistleblowing and revising OLAF's legal framework with the adoption of two new legislative proposals to be examined by the new Parliament.
These proposals aim to improve the information flows within the institutions of the Union and to reinforce the procedural guarantees.
Despite the crisis, Eurostat's functions in performing the essential statistical work of the Commission have not been interrupted.
A major reorganisation of Eurostat was approved by the Commission on 29 September 2003 and the new establishment plan has been in operation since 1 November.
Following on from the special audit undertaken by the internal audit service in September 2003, as well from the in-depth audit that had recently been concluded, a series of initiatives generated by the annual activity report were also undertaken.
Based on the principle that European statistical information is a public service, all statistical data drawn up and collected by Eurostat should be available free of charge to users and should be available on the Internet.
Finally, the work programme for 2004 is strictly prioritised and intentionally realistic.
The Commission is keen to reduce its dependence on external companies and organisations and to ensure that the European statistical service remains a public service which is open and available to users and acts in the public interest.
The Commission has thus taken very concrete and swift measures to respond to the criticism made by the European Parliament in its resolution of 17 December 2003 on the Commission's legislative and work programme for 2004.
This vote confirms that the Eurostat affair is a very regrettable exception to the generally sound financial management of the budget of the European Communities.
However, the Eurostat affair also shows the necessity and the importance of the reform progress engaged by the Commission.
With regard to the political responsibility mentioned in the motion of censure that is going to be debated here tonight, I would like to confirm the position of the Commission as very clearly stated by President Prodi in his speech of 25 September 2003 at the conference of presidents of the political groups.
President Prodi and his whole Commission are committed to zero tolerance against fraud.
You know very well that this is not a guarantee that no fraud will ever occur but it is a guarantee that nothing will be hushed up.
It is regrettable because the signatories to this motion actually have no other objective than to sully the reputation of the Commission, which, although it can be criticised for its management of the Eurostat matter, certainly does not deserve a vote of no confidence from Parliament.
It is also dangerous, because this is an important time in the history of European integration with the unification of the continent on 1 May, the European elections, hopefully the adoption of the Constitution and the fight against terrorism.
The first reason is the time that was chosen for this initiative, Parliament’s last legislative sitting.
If a desire for transparency was behind this step, the motion of censure would have come much sooner.
The second reason to back up my arguments is the list of signatories to this motion of censure.
I am not trying to offend anyone by saying this, because this is what they are doing by making people believe that Europe is a machine, a monster that regulates everything, decides everything, cheats and I do not know what else.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has chosen a different path to the signatories, because we talk about the future while others stay stuck in the past, because Europe is not built on fear, but on ambition and will.
There is still a great deal to do, particularly giving real political meaning to what is a human step, because it is a human venture to welcome the ten new countries, which are a symbolic example.
Those responsible must, however, be punished in proportion to any mistakes that become apparent.
We owe the European people a sense of responsibility, respect for democratic procedures and a guarantee of the rule of law.
To claim, however, as the signatories to this motion of censure are doing, that the Commission has not fulfilled its obligations, to seek to blemish a Commission at the end of its mandate which has of course made mistakes but which has a commendable record, is not acceptable to us.
This is why the PPE Group will vote against this motion with determination and conviction. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when you announced yesterday that it is a coalition of British Tories and Greek Communists who have tabled a no-confidence motion against the Commission, I was reminded of the remark of Karl Marx that when history repeats itself it does so first as tragedy and secondly as farce.
It is legitimate, even in this Parliament, to be against European integration and therefore against the Community institutions.
We are also defending ourselves against the abuse of Budget control for clearly political purposes.
Even you, Mr Heaton-Harris, in the Committee on Budgetary Control, have frequently made it clear that the reasons that led to the collapse of the Santer Commission do not apply in this case, whatever criticism may be levelled at the present Commission.
Using the Eurostat case as an electoral instrument is the best way to distract the incipient reform process and we do not wish to do this.
The signatories of the motion for a vote of no confidence include a Member of this House who personally urged me several months ago to ensure that the Eurostat story was buried.
In the historic period that is beginning of a Union of twenty-five, in which we need to succeed with enlargement, our group thinks that we need a competent European executive and civil service which is subject to permanent democratic monitoring by Parliament. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we have attempted to apportion the blame for what happened, but it has not been possible.
This was the conclusion of the report, submitted by the so-called Committee of Wise Men in March 1999, into the problems of the earlier Santer Commission.
The same can be said of the Eurostat scandal.
All the defence mechanisms have been set in motion.
That is why we want to establish who is to blame, but the system is designed to prevent us from doing so.
Over 100 Members of the European Parliament signed a motion of censure against the Commission, but one in three was pressurised into withdrawing his or her signature.
The die-hards now include some Members who may lose their places on important committees or in delegations.
Members of this Parliament will be punished by their groups for supporting the simple principle of the responsibility of ministers and Commissioners for their conduct in office.
The compromise text on Eurostat contains the fiercest criticism to date of the Commission’s financial management.
I should like to thank the more than 100 members who are signatories.
The assessment made by that resolution is damning.
What is more serious is not so much the Eurostat affair itself because, after all, misappropriation can affect any body, but rather the monitoring failures that it revealed, and, above all, the inability of the Commission to convincingly put things right.
Our resolution of 29 January, which I remind you again was adopted by the European Parliament, criticised the culture of secrecy and lack of transparency in the Commission, the poor internal communication of information, the fact that it was extremely slow and reticent in submitting audit reports to the European Parliament, and the fact that the Commissioners were shirking their political responsibilities.
This is why Members must take on their own responsibility today as elected representatives of the people of Europe, the taxpayers of Europe.
As far as I know, the motion of censure is on the European Commission and not on the services of the European Parliament.
Let me make it clear that while it is argued by some that there are 100 signatories, I have a duty of care as President, under the Rules of Procedure, to establish and verify who has signed and who stands over the signature.
The majority of the political groups have therefore prepared a resolution which will be voted on during tomorrow’s sitting, precisely because we are still concerned about such an enormously important issue as fraud in Eurostat.
The resolution various groups will table tomorrow makes it very clear that Parliament is vigilant, is carrying out its duty and is exercising the control conferred on it by the Treaty as a fundamental Community institution throughout the procedure.
We therefore believe that this motion is inappropriate.
This is confirmation that, in making Parliament’s work more frenzied, the run-up to the elections is inspiring initiatives such as the one that we are dealing with this evening.
Of course, it is easy to stir up scandal about particular issues in order to try to grab the attention of the public, which is often ill informed about politics and the European institutions.
It is more difficult to give Europe a political dimension, starting with adopting a real constitution.
If things are really like this and we look at the motion of censure in this light, then I believe that all of the group of signatories have something to think about. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, different assessments can, of course, be made as to whether the Commission’s action is so serious as to require a motion of censure, and I can therefore respect a contribution as objective as that of Mr&#160;Jonckheer.
You may have a different view but, when you ridicule us, run us down and call us anti-Europeans, you undermine the democratic legitimacy of your own project. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in the end, and almost too late, I agreed to add my name to this motion of censure on the Commission regarding the Eurostataffair.
In any case, we expected the Commission to act less like Pontius Pilate; this is what we expected and, I believe, what we deserved since, after all, we are the only institution that has genuine popular legitimacy.
It is, therefore, involved in setting out the economic and financial policies of the Member States and, indeed, in making Member States adopt strict policies that often entail budget and welfare cutbacks.
I do not want to give lessons in democracy to anyone – God forbid – but I would like to quietly mention that democracy is based on the rights of minorities to express their opinion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I think that this evening we are experiencing a real parody, a mockery of democracy.
Think about it, if you will, Mrs Grossetête, that is not the case here.
I admit that you have impressed me in this exercise, Mrs&#160;Grossetête.
The proximity of the elections may exacerbate people’s attitudes, that is quite natural for a democrat: the elections are not a difficult time to get through, as you seem to think.
We wanted to prevent him from ending this European affair in the shameful role of someone who is as slippery as an eel when faced with questions and demands posed by different newspapers – and we would have thought that he would have had the decency to be present in this House to discuss this issue – whilst one of the people who exposed the information is being investigated, as in the good old days of the communist police, and his files are confiscated because he dares to investigate European fraud and Eurostat.
The scandal concerns a body of the European institutions that deals with funds and sensitive data, and this makes it a serious fact.
The Eurostat dossier has compromised the image of the European Commission and its President, who – in our opinion – would do well to draw from it the necessary consequences.
Allow me to give you a few thoughts on future work in the railway sector.
When examining these texts in the second railway package, Parliament wished to highlight the importance that it attaches to opening up the passenger transport market.
The Commission itself indicated in the White Paper in September 2001 that proposals would be made.
This is why it adopted a series of proposals on 7&#160;March regarding opening up the market for international passenger rail transport services from 2010, and also regarding passenger rights.
These texts are accompanied by a significant proposal for a directive on certifying locomotive drivers and crew and a proposal for a regulation on contractual quality clauses for rail freight.
I think that Parliament can be proud that we have overcome the hesitant position of the Council with the results of the conciliation procedure on the second railway package and have created a new, practical European dimension for the development of railway companies in the Union.
With the amendment of Directive 91/440/EEC, all railway companies will now be given non-discriminatory access to the rail networks of all the Member States for cross-border freight traffic as of 1 January 2006 and – this is Parliament’s achievement – for freight traffic within them as early as 1 January 2007.
At the same time, the Commission, Parliament and the Council recommend an opening up of the network also for cross-border passenger traffic for the year 2010.
Commissioner, we are grateful to you for the third railway package, as put before us by the Commission.
I personally am not sure whether it is necessary to regulate quality control for freight services – which I believe should be left to the market – and compensation for delays and so on in railway transport – aviation is rather different from railways.
Finally, I also believe that with the regulation establishing the European Railway Agency we will have created an important institution which will be committed in practice both to European safety standards and also to the rapid processing of the technical specifications for interoperability.
The objective of the new directive on railway safety is to harmonise the regulatory structure in Member States and to develop common safety targets and methods in Europe.
Harmonisation aims to reduce the number of barriers to an EU-wide railway network.
The proposal defines the main elements of common safety systems, puts in place a common system for the issue of safety certificates, as well as introducing the principle of independent technical investigations in the event of accidents.
In conciliation an agreement was reached on 10 March which was confirmed by the Parliament delegation and the Conciliation Committee on 16 March.
To allow mobility of these members of staff between railway companies, it has been agreed that train drivers, on-board safety personnel as well as ground-based infrastructure managers will have the right to have access to and obtain copies of all documents attesting to their qualifications.
This new directive is an important step towards the creation of a safe European railway system and sets out a clear regulatory structure for its gradual establishment.
The agreement reached within the Conciliation Committee fully reflects Parliament’s position at second reading.
All in all this railway package is a major step towards freeing up traffic by means of the railways.
A functional railway system will mean greater and greater benefits to the consumer and also allow us to achieve sustainable development in transport. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate this evening brings us to the end of numerous discussions and meetings regarding the future of the railways in Europe.
At the end of this long and educational road, I would like to thank all my fellow rapporteurs who, despite differences of opinion, even seeing things in an entirely different way, have allowed us to work in a way that respected everyone’s points of view.
In my opinion, this package is in line with the twofold reality of European integration today.
It is also proof of the positive contribution that Europe can make to its people in order to tighten links and develop solidarity.
The aim of the ‘interoperability’ directive, for which I am rapporteur, was to bring the national networks forged by history into harmony with each other in order to achieve faster, more efficient and more harmonious transport.
This is why, as rapporteur, I would particularly like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism for helping me to complete this task, and also everyone within Parliament and outside, professionals and associations, who have helped me to look in detail into these questions and gain a better grasp of the issues at stake.
This is also one of the main reasons why I welcome the report on the creation of the Rail Agency.
Even though I wanted other improvements, in my view these two points demonstrate what Europe can gain by trusting and giving a voice to those who keep it going day by day.
They deserve strong support from Parliament at the vote tomorrow.
The directive on opening up the networks proposes total liberalisation of freight, even though the first package has just been transposed and no serious, transparent and balanced evaluation has been conducted on its effects.
Even on a subject as important and decisive as safety, it is being proposed to us that the first Article be amended to place opening up to competition on the same level as safety.
I do not wish to repeat what, as my colleagues know, I have already said several times on this matter.
I will simply say that, on issues of such importance, with the experiences that we have had in Europe, it is worth adhering to the precautionary principle. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I would first of all like to thank all of my colleagues, firstly the rapporteurs of these four important reports, but also all my colleagues in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism for the very significant work which has been done on these four texts.
At a time when we want to welcome ten new countries, we have to renew a very strong safety requirement in an area, railways, in which ultimately the job is about safety.
We would have liked to set an example in another area, as we think that for the Agency, the Council should stop requiring one representative per country, which now means that we have a representation of the Council of 25 members, two of which do not have rail networks.
In particular, what bothers me in this text is that it states that there will be an evaluation on 1 January 2006, when 1 January 2006 is the opening date.
On a more general note and to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you a few comments on our major objective, which is sustainable mobility, and therefore developing railways and waterways, rather than giving in to the rise in road traffic that will one day pose severe political problems.
We are well aware that there are colossal investments to make and the financial perspectives do not respond to the request for financial resources made by Commissioner de Palacio herself in order to fund trans-European transport networks and, in particular, rail networks.
Today is a step forward without the railwaymen, because there are extremely strong national cultures in these companies, that is how it is, because they are labour companies.
We need to continue in this way, but I also hope that one day we will move towards a collective railwaymen’s agreement, whether they are employed by private or public companies, so that they can own this tremendous rebirth of the railways which is of benefit to everyone who wants us to have a less polluting method of transport. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the last conciliation of this term of office was aimed at establishing a common market for railway transport, and it has been a great success, especially for Parliament.
It is, however, annoying that the Council refused to reduce the number of members of the board of the new European Railway Agency, as Parliament wanted it to.
On the European Parliament’s side, we succeeded, however, in introducing a legally binding document whereby the Commission is to carry out a thorough review of the structure and composition of all the authorities.
Efficient management must be based upon the general European interest.
To ensure rail safety, all railway workers, such as train drivers, who affect rail safety must, from now on, use a generally known vocabulary and system of orders to eliminate any risk of misunderstanding.
A particularly worthwhile instance of progress was the fact that we succeeded in uniting all the different parties.
We were able to maintain a more or less common front against the Council, a fact that is, of course, in large part the reason for the outcome.
It is because I am constantly telling my friends that in the last few years and decades, since there was no liberalisation or opening up of the market, the railways have lost market share.
The fact is that, on the one hand, there are heavy goods vehicles, driven more or less the length and breadth of Europe without borders.
I have constantly criticised the fact that railways have taken a long time to start thinking in international and European terms.
Of course, there is still much to be done.
This very week, we voted on the Cocilovo report.
Mr&#160;Jarzembowski does not regard it as progress, but the good thing is that he must also sometimes make compromises, even in Hamburg in Northern Germany he must be able to make compromises.
For I believe that any reasonable person, any reasonable traffic expert, would say that we need both rail and road.
That itself, I think, is an important milestone in the development of the European railway system. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my first speech to this House fifteen years ago, which I remember, took place during an evening sitting at around 11.45 p.m.
My last speech, fifteen years later, is also in the evening, before an almost equally reduced audience.
I am nevertheless pleased to be able to make this speech on this important matter of the rail package and everything that it implies.
I would like once again to say on behalf of my group and also personally that we think it is very important to maintain and particularly to develop a quality, tight, diverse, secure European rail network, providing a public service to all the citizens of Europe and contributing to a balanced use of land in Europe.
In our view, the rail package and what underlies it are an example of a Europe that we no longer want, a Europe which has given priority to free competition, very often over any other consideration.
It is true that thanks to the fight by the unions in the sector and by a party in Parliament, not forgetting the real pressure of public opinion that is increasingly sensitive to our arguments, the points that were most dangerous for the future of rail have been removed or deferred.
But in our view, and in my view, the result is still not acceptable, in particular with the Jarzembowski and Sterckx reports, despite the Savary and Ainardi reports which we consider to be positive.
To conclude, I would like to express my hope that in future there will be more forces that wish to construct the other Europe that we want, a social and citizen’s Europe which we think is much closer to the dream of the founding fathers of Europe than this Europe of a big liberal market that years of liberalisation decisions have finally led us to. &#160;&#160; Mr President, unlike the situation affecting other modes of transport, the liberalisation of the markets has only touched the surface of the rail transport sector.
We therefore welcome the presentation of this second rail package in which the Commission proposes new measures that will enable us to move towards liberalisation, whilst at the same time maintaining the safety standards required for the sector.
The most complex issue was, of course, the process of liberalisation, because this clashes with interests that are deeply entrenched in the various Member States given the special role that the rail sector plays in each country’s economy.
From this point of view, the conciliation that has been achieved moderates the more radical proposals without, however, discounting a future opening-up of the market to passenger rail transport.
We should also emphasise the set of proposals put forward by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on introducing a safety certificate, on training and certifying rail staff and on introducing a common working language for international transport, similar to the situation in the air transport sector.
In short, the compromise that has been reached demonstrates the bold and forward-looking vision that we should all adopt towards the crucial transport sector. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we can look forward to the revival of the railways as a wonderful prospect.
Development of this market therefore calls for a cautious approach.
The Members who have followed this railway package will remember that there have been moments when we doubted that we would succeed in the endeavour to close such a complex chapter.
The first result that we must be proud of is, therefore, that of having reached the destination and of having achieved the result.
In these four proposals – for which the rapporteurs must, of course, be thanked for the great work that they carried out – we have a balanced mixture of, on the one hand, the urgent need to open up this market and modernise it and, on the other hand, the need to give us guarantees, both in terms of security and in terms of the ability and experience that the workers in this sector bring, which we want to safeguard.
I would just like to make one observation, because I have heard comments that I am struggling to understand.
When talking about this liberalisation, which some are demonising, I would like to call for us not ever to forget that our focus and our objective are the users of this service.
I believe that we have achieved this objective.
Since this is my last speech of this parliamentary term, I will take this opportunity to thank my fellow Members.
We do, however, want to help to ensure that the railways and with them public services move into the future in a way that will benefit the community and that they are not motivated solely by financial interests, serving few areas and passing through at high speed.
It is a good example of efficient and constructive cooperation between the institutions.
The Commission proposal has two main parts.
On the one hand, it envisages the closure of the Joint European Venture programme and, on the other hand, makes a few changes to the European support mechanism for start-up capital for technology companies, called ETF Start Up.
The proposed closure of the JEV programme is the result of an evaluation of the programme which concluded that it has not achieved its objectives.
I think that this proposal sends a clear message that both Parliament and the Commission are prepared to close ineffective programmes that do not achieve their objectives.
It is better for the Commission to devote its financial and human resources to financial instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises which have a greater impact, for example the SME guarantee facility and the ETF Start Up mechanism.
This reflects the fact that product development and the experimental phase can be particularly long for those companies and that, during that time, they need access to risk capital in order to continue their business.
The Commission’s proposal also refers more explicitly to the eligibility of funds invested in companies carrying out research and development activities.
This highlights the fact that the European support mechanism for start-up capital is open to funds used for small and medium-sized enterprises that are particularly active in research and development.
I will conclude by saying that these changes to the support mechanism for start-up capital should help in achieving both the Lisbon objectives and the objective of 3% GDP for spending on research and development.
The proposal was submitted in December 2003.
On April 21 – today – we have found in the trialogue that we agree on this draft legislation, so that, from the first proposal to the entry into force of this important decision for small and medium-size firms, only four months have elapsed.
I believe that this programme will enable us to achieve this objective quite efficiently.
I would like explicitly to thank the Commission for having had the courage officially to concede this and to say that this is a programme which is not being used to the full.
We would like to know what our finance ministers, what our national states, in the run-up to the introduction of Basel II, would like to do or will have to do, what proposals the various States are developing here, and above all there must be a programme of business re-engineering.
However, it cannot be the case that we introduce Basel II with billions of euros in costs.
We would like the Stability Pact, which we have accepted for our Europe, also to be shaped to fit our small businesses, and then they too would be looking at a secure future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the Rübig report does not pose any problems.
I hope that this report finally marks the will of the Commission to take into account the needs of SMEs for risk capital, start-up aid and transfer of business, as you said, Commissioner.
As this is, however, our last sitting and I will undoubtedly not be in the next Parliament, unfortunately, I would like to emphatically state again what my colleagues in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and I have always advocated.
Secondly, our companies, both small and medium-sized, and whatever their sector, innovative, traditional or small-scale, need access to the research and development programmes.
This is not an option, but an obligation in order for them to remain competitive, dynamic and effective, as you just said, Commissioner.
Finally, these companies need advice, cooperation and dialogue.
As we have already witnessed in the case of Europe 2005, a successful implementation of access to broadband largely relies on the availability of Content.
What this means, then, is that, in terms of third-generation mobile telephony too, Europe will be lagging ever further behind, as the figures at Nokia testify.
In this light, the report on Content is extremely important, because it promotes an increase in productivity and innovation, better information products and services; it has a positive impact on Government, another area in which we are trailing behind badly, and it leads to more projects in the areas of Health, Business and Learning.
The Commission's present Content -proposal identifies the obstacles, particularly in the areas of public interest in Europe,and also the areas in which the market is overlooking adequate investments.
Our basic budget was EUR 163 million.
The Council, and the Irish Presidency in particular, led us to believe that a deal was within reach if we were to reduce the amount to EUR 145 million.
As befits good parliamentarians, we ultimately hoped for an amount in the region of 150 million, but, during the informal trialogue, the Irish Presidency responded that the budget should not exceed 120 million and added that, if we were to push a little, we could probably end up with 138 million.
It is characteristic of the Council that I received the following message at 5.11 p.m.
We need to improve conditions for innovation by business - notably in certain sectors of the digital content market - and that is why this programme is very relevant to the Lisbon strategy.
The online digital content market offers significant potential for growth, but it also provides an ideal platform for innovative digital content products and services that transcend national boundaries.
Imagine, for example, if our public administrations in Europe all collected and stored data and information in the same way and if, on top of that, our citizens were proficient in all the languages of the Union.
I tried to raise awareness of that with the European Year of Languages, and the process is ongoing: people are learning more and more languages, but we still have a long way to go to reach our goal.
The reality is that in May 2004 the European Union will encompass 25 Member States, 20 languages, even more cultures, a great many regions and a truly fragmented market for any business intending to develop innovative cross-border digital content products and services.
This is a situation that should be taken into account when the e-content programme starts in January 2005.
The recently adopted directive on public sector information aligns legal frameworks in Member States with respect to the re-use of information held by the public sector.
The difficulties in combining formats and languages can be addressed using today's information technologies, subject to the eContent+ proposal.
The proposed programme recommends focusing on clearly fragmented parts of the digital content market in Europe where market forces alone have been insufficient to drive growth, as rightly stated by the rapporteur.
As he stated earlier, the US has the world's most advanced digital economy and Europe, with its fragmented markets and smaller media and telecommunication companies, is trying to catch up in terms of quality of content and products.
However, when it comes to the Council putting its money where its mouth is, nothing at all happens.
As the reporter said, the Council has treated Parliament with complete contempt.
In a Europe of 25 Member States, adequate resources will be needed if we are to gain a competitive edge over our major competitor, the US, in this area.
I hope that at second reading the Council will get the message that Parliament is not willing to support programmes that are simply piecemeal efforts. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.(1).
