Democracy building in external relations (debate) The next item is the oral question by Gabriele Albertini and Heidi Hautala, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Eva Joly, on behalf of the Committee on Development, to the Council on democracy building in external relations (B7-0213/2009).
The entire development policy and the Common Foreign and Security Policy cover this whole spectrum.
The international community, including the European Union, requested it to conduct an independent, international investigation into the tragic and shocking events in the spring of 2005 in Andizhan, when democracy was well and truly suppressed.
We must therefore welcome the fact that, on 19 May, the Council indicated that the European Union had to adopt a more consistent approach to democratic governance.
Consequently, there can be no development without peace.
Both require full respect for human rights.
I would like to thank the European Parliament for its great interest in and support for this work.
As a global player, with 27 Member States and the European Parliament, and as the world's largest contributor of aid, the EU has a key role to play in terms of supporting democracy building in its external relations.
I have also seen a very interesting report from the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance that compares our intentions when carrying out democracy building with how they are perceived by our partners.
We are working towards the Council's conclusions being adopted at the General Affairs and External Relations Council in November.
I cannot emphasise enough the role of our various parliaments - in other words, the role of the European Parliament and the national parliaments - in the democracy building process.
This brings us back to the notion of human rights in this debate.
It is no surprise, then, to see many references to this in the basic texts that govern relations between the European Union and third countries, starting with the Cotonou Agreement, which includes, in particular, a clause on human rights and democracy in the context of the political dialogue with the ACP countries.
The partnerships between the European Union and third countries cannot ignore this fact.
The eastern partnership is an important instrument for strengthening democracy among our immediate neighbours.
The human rights situation there is far from satisfactory.
in writing. - I fully support this call for a more coherent and effective framework for EU support for democracy-building, the promotion of democratic values and respect for human rights in the world.
The European Union itself is founded on the very values of democracy and human rights.
