The latest European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) report states that there are currently 94 confirmed cases of A(H1N1) influenza within the EU and EFTA countries, and 20 probable cases.
The Commission launched its public health operations facility on 24 April and since then my services have been at permanent operational level.
Since medical countermeasures such as antivirals and vaccines are at the heart of our public health response to this threat, I met with the European manufacturers on Wednesday 29 April to learn the latest information on which products are in development, on timelines for new vaccines, and to see if EU intervention can speed up delivery.
I can also inform Parliament that, following my request to the Czech Presidency, the Health Council met on 30 April and adopted a set of strong conclusions reiterating the need for a coordinated response to the new influenza threat.
The Commission is now examining a road map for the urgent implementation of the points included in the Council conclusions of 30 April.
So I would like you to exert pressure in this direction to ensure that an effort really is made to ensure that we have a new vaccine which, together with the vaccine for seasonal influenza, which you have rightly extended in order to combat this influenza for all the known scientific reasons, would constitute the best barrier to a possible influenza pandemic.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, it would seem that the flu pandemic is not as bad as expected.
This would prevent the release of incomplete information, panic and, for example, the slaughter of pigs which is taking place. - (SK) Commissioner, I too would like to thank you for your active and immediate response to the case in question.
We can already see this from the cases that have appeared in locations as far away from Mexico as New Zealand, Australia, Europe and Africa.
We can see this from a number of African countries, for example Egypt where the current threat of an influenza epidemic coupled with the idea that the disease was spread by pigs has led to 300 000 - 400 000 pigs being slaughtered.
As we have Eurolat, we should also think about supporting Mexico, where it is believed that this infection will cause GDP to decline by up to 4 - 5% from current levels. (ES) Mr President, I would like to say that we need to send realistic messages to our citizens, as the Commissioner has tried to do.
It is well known that viruses do not like high temperatures.
I should like to ask you if this still applies today, or not, which would mean that the Member States are better prepared.
This shows that both the European Union and the Member States are tackling this situation in a very positive manner and as close as possible to the people.
First of all, let me assure you that all the structures we have established in order to meet any health threat of this size have been working well and that we have utilised all the tools at our disposal.
As I said in my introductory statement, since 25 April 2009 we have been in close contact on a daily basis with all the Member States, and we have been assured that the directives we have given them have been put in place and are working.
However, in view of the conclusions reached by the health ministers on 30 April 2009, we decided that the Commission would work closely with the Member States and that if a Member State needs assistance then, in the spirit of solidarity, we shall call for assistance and try to coordinate the needs of the Member States.
We hope that on 11 May 2009 we shall have the seed stocks to give to the industry in order for it to begin production of the new vaccine.
