author. - (FR) Madam President, I thank the Commissioner for having agreed to address this question, which was tabled some four months ago.
Category II children, who make up 5%, and category III, who make up 25%, pay school fees of between EUR 4 000 and 16 000.
The school in Parma, which is approved by the Board of Governors of the European Schools, will be the first school of its kind to award a European baccalaureate in June 2009.
A study commissioned by the European Parliament's Committee on Culture and Education, which will be available in October, shows that 94% of those who have passed the baccalaureate go on to higher education in the main European universities and that 62% of them study in a university outside their country of origin.
In its resolutions of 2002 and 2005, the European Parliament advocated a profound reform of the schools system with a view to better governance and greater openness.
I am well aware that this subject is of interest to a large number of fellow Members and I thank the Commissioner and the President for this opportunity to hold a public debate on it.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, I thank the honourable Members for these questions and for this opportunity to discuss these issues in the European Parliament again.
Following formal approval by the Board of Governors in April 2008 of the concrete modalities to achieve this goal, any accredited school in the Member States can now teach the European curriculum and deliver the European Baccalaureate.
The opening of the European School System is in line with the European Parliament's wish to ensure that this would be possible both in places where an EU decentralised agency is located (so-called 'type-II schools'), and in locations without a direct EU presence (so-called 'type-III schools').
The Commission wants to maintain the high quality of this diploma.
The SEN budget allocated for 2008 is EUR 3 123 000; in 2004, the SEN budget spent was a little over EUR 2 million.
The Board of Governors of the European Schools approved in July 2008 the proposal to use the European Parliament reserve of EUR 200 000 to make an evaluation of the existing SEN policy in the European Schools.
I would like to underline that we have good contacts with the Member States.
I hope that the Swedish presidency - which is not the presidency of the European Union but the presidency in the European Schools Board - will develop these initiatives.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Madam President, I have asked to speak because I am concerned.
The second question relates to the children of Parliamentary assistants.
I have also received complaints from assistants who have to send their children as category three entries if they want them to attend these schools; in other words, they have to pay school fees.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FI) Madam President, firstly I would like to say on behalf of my group that it is true that the present system is fairly complicated.
It is on that basis that we should act in the case of the European Schools.
I think that we in Europe should have a debate on making all education free, whatever school we are talking about.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, 50 years of experience in European Schools that are faced with the specific problem of different languages, cultural diversity and migration makes one consider whether this experience should be used to make this school model more widely available.
It is not just the children of officials working in European institutions who need to be taught foreign languages at the highest level, as well as integration with their peers from other European countries.
It is not just they, who, because their parents have taken up posts abroad, need a particular approach to schooling.
Please note that this is happening in one of the 27 EU Member States in the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, at a time when Commissioner Leonard Orban issued a policy document entitled, 'Multilingualism: an asset for Europe and a shared commitment'.
In the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, a debate on the reform of the European Schools could not be of greater importance, as we live in a multicultural and multilingual Europe, where different cultures and languages coexist.
Allow me to stress the fact that only by allowing students to express and practice their own cultural identity and use their own mother tongue throughout their education and formation can we allow them to evolve as true European citizens.
Thank you for your attention and I wish you good luck in the reform process of the European Schools.
In that sense, we then have to build on Europe's cultural roots, for instance what Rome gave us in terms of law, what Greece gave us in terms of philosophy, and what Germany gave us in terms of music.
The conclusion, Madam President, is this: it is sensible to open up these schools, but this should not be at the cost of teaching quality or an excessive number of children and young people in these schools. (RO) European Schools are recognised in Europe as elite institutions that provide quality education to young people.
In 1953, Jean Monnet said that the purpose of these schools was to bring together European children, irrespective of their nationality, and to instill in them the European spirit and sense of belonging, so that they may eventually create a united and prosperous Europe.
The reform programme of these schools must take into account the following important issues.
Unfortunately, there are still some official EU languages which are not spoken in any of the European Schools.
I visited the oldest European School in Brussels, which was established more than 50 years ago, and I met over 40 Romanian students who have the opportunity to study in their native language.
However, I believe that in today's debate we should focus on the need to adapt European Schools to present-day requirements, taking into account the enlargement to the EU-27 as well as such phenomena as globalisation, migration, and increased professional and geographic mobility.
There are two major issues that I would like to stress.
So the European School is an admirable project, and I support it. (PL) Madam President, the European Schools exist on the basis of the Convention signed in 1957.
Finally, I would like to ask for consideration to be given to the possibility of creating European Schools in the new Member States. (PL) Madam President, the education philosophy in European Schools and the teaching programme that leads to a European Baccalaureate should serve as an example of multilingual and multicultural education for all Member States.
It should also be recognised by institutions of higher education in Member States and also in third countries.
Member States themselves often try to create a new education system that will prepare young people better for the challenges associated with globalisation and a flexible labour market, while the system of European Schools and the European Baccalaureate have already long been in existence and, what is most important, have had excellent results, so we should duplicate them as much as possible.
Commissioner, are there also to be increases in appropriations for the next financial perspective; is there a system of funding in place that will ensure that these schools can continue to function?
As to financing, this is the second thing I would like to say in reply to one important question.
Now, about parliamentary assistants, you know that at present parliamentary assistants are not covered by the Staff Regulations, they are a kind of special staff members in Parliament, but you know also that negotiations are ongoing to settle this and to have more precise rules, and then we can also consider what to do about access to the European Schools for the children of parliamentary assistants.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (IT) I agree with the various solutions proposed for the reform of the European Schools: my privileged role as the Committee on Development's rapporteur on the Erasmus Community action programme leads me strongly to support the need for a multilingual and flexible European Schools model in which mother-tongue teaching is maintained (and is taught by teachers who are native speakers) but which is, at the same time, the same for all without class distinctions.
Tutoring obviously has an important role to play in the social, cultural and linguistic integration of incoming students and the achievement of excellent linguistic skills needs to be encouraged, with support from intensive courses (as has been underscored from 2001 to today by the Day of European Languages held every 26 September).
Given the latest enlargement of the EU to 27 Member States and with the increase in EU staff that implies, the significance of a well-reformed European School has become an issue of high priority.
