Situation in Bangladesh The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in Bangladesh.
author. - (PL) Mr President, in connection with the disturbances in January 2007, the caretaker government in Bangladesh introduced a state of emergency, and on 11 June this year it passed a new regulation limiting human rights through an imprecise definition of a terrorist act.
The state of emergency, with all its anti-democratic manifestations - a state which was declared by the caretaker government set up in January 2007 amid violence in the run-up to the election - should have been lifted by now.
author. - (FI) Mr President, in the resolution which we have just adopted, the European Parliament demanded human rights for the people of India.
The undemocratic nature of its elections can be freely criticised in the western media because the country has no oil.
Bangladesh has re-introduced the death penalty and following the declaration of the state of emergency 300 000 people were arrested on flimsy grounds, 12 000 of whom have died in the last month.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (PL) Mr President, in terms of population numbers, Bangladesh is the seventh largest country in the world, with a population in excess of 150 million.
The well-known company Goldman Sachs stated that Bangladesh was a country with a very promising future, as far as swift economic growth was concerned.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the situation in Bangladesh has always been very serious, but especially so in the last 18 months - since the time when a state of emergency was introduced there.
One effect of this has been, for example, to increase the number of death sentences, and more than 300 000 people have been arrested, a number of them having been tortured.
With the recent arrest of Motiur Rahman Nizami, the three main political party leaders of Bangladesh have now been apprehended on illusive charges of corruption.
Since March 2008 at least 12 000 persons have been arrested and denied the right to seek release on bail.
The world keeps hearing of more and more instances of human rights violations in that country.
The Anti-Terrorism Ordinance introduced on 11 June has placed additional restrictions on human rights, becoming another tool in the political battle.
During the past 18 months 300 000 arrests have been made and the scope of application of the death penalty has been widened.
An opportunity for change in the country is provided by free parliamentary elections preceded by a lifting of the state of emergency.
The EU should restore as soon as possible its election observation mission in Bangladesh, and prior to that the European Commission's Office in Bangladesh must carefully monitor the political situation in the country and the status of observance of fundamental human rights. (PL) Mr President, freedom and statehood in Bangladesh were secured and purchased at the cost of the lives of many millions of its citizens.
The country is overpopulated, with 1 040 people per square kilometre; it is not urbanised, and it has a very low income per head of population.
The EU should apply special pressure particularly to the forthcoming elections and carry out careful monitoring of both the preparations for and the holding of these elections. (DE) Mr President, the European Union has a major interest in democratic conditions and respect for human rights in Bangladesh.
We make our demands to the caretaker government, that is true, but we must also point out that the political powers that be in Bangladesh also have a rather uncultured style, and that things do not happen peacefully, but very violently, particularly during election campaigns.
One of the things we are looking at today is the situation in Bangladesh, where the elections planned for 22 January 2007 did not take place and have been postponed until December 2008.
Jo, you were saying that if we did not vote this afternoon, the vote would take place next time.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the parliamentary elections in December are indeed essential for securing sustainable democracy in Bangladesh.
We also share the concerns expressed in your resolution of 6 September last year as well as in your motions submitted by political groups for this debate today.
in writing. - Bangladesh is a large and strategic South Asian country with 153 million inhabitants and some 80 million registered electors, making it one of the world's largest democracies.
Ex-Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has been released on humanitarian grounds.
