&#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on Belarus – the political situation after the elections. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to be present here for this important debate today, because Parliament, in particular, needs to send out a strong signal regarding the depth of the concern the EU feels about the situation and developments in Belarus.
Of course, the Council has been devoting attention to Belarus not just since last Sunday, when the elections were held, but for a long time now.
Indeed, that is why the Council took a large number of measures in the run-up to the elections, including, in particular, issuing a very clear reaction to the announcement by the Belarusian Government and President of their intention to take harsh measures against any demonstrators.
Once again, I am delighted at the speed with which Parliament, too, has set to work on this situation, to send out a political signal.
In the days and weeks to come, the Council will carefully consider what specific measures can and should be taken to express our discontent with this situation, and also to influence future developments in the country.
In my opinion, this is why the situation is so difficult and why measures have to be considered carefully, because we do not want any steps we take to affect the people, or civil society.
On the contrary, we must now seek to strengthen free society, or free civil society.
This statement was endorsed by the candidate countries, and also the countries participating in the stabilisation and association process – Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Montenegro – the EFTA countries Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, and also Ukraine and Moldova.
By way of conclusion, I should like to assure you that the Council takes this situation very seriously, that we are concerned about Belarus, which is the last country in Europe where human rights are not respected, and where there is no freedom of assembly or expression.
Looking now to the future, we must continue our efforts to support democratisation and civil society.
We are finalising a proposal for our assistance strategy for 2007 onwards.
The current TV and radio programmes being broadcast to Belarus and supported by the European Community are an important contribution to democratisation and to the visibility of the European Union in Belarus.
It seems that, for the first time in a long while, Parliament and the Commission are speaking the same language.
He met Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner and Mr Solana and was acknowledged as a democratic partner by the political leaders of the European Union.
Political solidarity is not just about making political declarations but also involves the need to revise the policies of our Union.
This far-reaching revision process should aim to isolate the authorities in power without isolating Belarusian society.
As the European Parliament delegation to Belarus, we have submitted the relevant document to Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner and Mr Solana.
It is also very important to open the gates of the European Union to those Belarusians who cannot find a place in their own country, and it is vital to include the youth of Belarus who are currently excluded from universities for taking part in peace demonstrations in a special grant programme in the EU Member States.
That signature is at the bottom of a telegram which Mr Putin sent Mr Lukashenko as early as Sunday, I believe, to congratulate him once again on the fantastic outcome, in which Mr Putin expresses the hope that he, together with Mr Lukashenko, can work on both countries’ further democratic development.
Finally, we will be holding a more extensive debate on this issue in Strasbourg in two weeks’ time, where we may be able to discuss in greater detail the action that the European Union could take, and so I would like to ask the Council one thing, and that is to present a sound programme and sound proposals to support the opposition and civil society in that country.
The President-in-Office of the Council said a moment ago that he takes it as read that a number of issues will be thrashed out in contacts with Russia.
These people in October Square are our great hope in Belarus, and so I should like to extend a very special greeting to them from this House, as they are our future partners.
After all, these people are doing nothing more than exercising their democratic right to freedom of expression and manifesting their desire to live in a democracy.
I would like to add my voice to those here today who have so strongly emphasised that President Lukashenko’s regime and all events currently occurring in Belarus would be impossible if the dictator himself did not feel that he had the support of influential patrons and powerful friends in the Kremlin.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention an issue which has so far not come up in this debate as we have, of course, been discussing the crimes related to the elections which took place a few days ago in Belarus.
I would like to call for more action on the part of the European Union, not only in the field of human rights in the sense of electoral rights, but also in the promotion of freedom of information and of the media in Belarus.
This is because President Lukashenko’s regime also remains in power due to the fact that it simply deceives the citizens. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Belarus unexpectedly woke up to statehood in 1991.
Fortunately, the young are more cynical and I salute the courage of all those who have taken to the streets in protest and faced the brutality and the wrath of the militia and the KGB under Mr Lukashenko.
And they are risking everything: their job, their studies, their family, their lives.
A number of these young people have been expelled from university because they are demonstrating.
We cannot hide behind bureaucratic or diplomatic obstacles in order to come to the help of these democratic forces.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; I would also like to talk about the need for real action.
There is also a third matter which is often discussed in the European Parliament and which has also featured in Parliament resolutions, namely changing the way in which Parliament acts with respect to measures taken to support civil society in Belarus and in other countries, as well as support for action in the name of democracy.
I think this would be an excellent approach and an excellent gesture. &#160;&#160; We have known for years what this dictator has been doing beyond our Eastern borders.
Secondly, the European Union and the European Parliament must henceforth unambiguously support only the democratic opposition forces and citizens' associations, or civil society, as has already been suggested here.
This support should be expressed not only in moral terms but should be specific and include financial assistance.
The Slovak Republic is in favour of stricter and tougher procedures.
Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union must not leave Lukashenko alone and revert to a ‘business as usual’ policy – as the most important trading partner of Belarus, the EU has in fact been contributing in no small measure to the preservation of this regime. &#160;&#160; – The recent events in Belarus have made two things clear: firstly, that it is necessary to fundamentally review and concretise the European Union's strategy on Belarus as quickly as possible, and the positive sprouting of an awakening civil society should appease neither the European Union's leaders, nor the parliaments and governments of its Member States.
The wave of repressions will not abate, but increase; therefore, the first object is to protect the forces opposed to the regime and their leaders from repression.
Offering young people in Belarus such study opportunities in higher education establishments and European Union universities is without doubt the priority of a common European Union strategy like this. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I was a member of the European Parliament delegation which never went to Belarus.
The border on the River Bug is a ridiculous Berlin Wall and we are quite right in saying that the authorities should be isolated.
Mrs&#160;Schroedter said that a visa ban should be imposed on everyone responsible, and that is exactly what we need.
That is also the reason why – even though, naturally, scenarios have already been considered in the past – we are only now able to take specific measures: because we now know exactly who is responsible for the situation in Belarus and which names should appear on the list of visa restrictions – although a detailed analysis is still required.
As many speakers have said, at the same time, we must find ways of offering assistance to people who wish to travel abroad, to visit our countries, to broaden their minds, to see how democracy works.
I should like to point out that the Presidency declaration on the situation in Belarus that was issued yesterday expressly deplored the non-admittance of EU observers, including Members of the European Parliament.
Policy declarations are important, but they are certainly not enough.
We therefore have to introduce and maintain sanctions that clearly reflect our position.
Such sanctions could include, for example, the extension of the visa ban or the freezing of assets in the Member States.
Parallel to the sanctions and the increase of support to civil society and the democratic forces in the country, we have to encourage and facilitate people-to-people contacts by, for instance, waiving visa fees on an ad hoc basis.
We are aware of the problem that, according to our rules, support can only be granted to officially registered NGOs, but the Commission has found a solution to this.
The debate here was quite encouraging.
By following the same line and working in close cooperation, we will finally promote democratic changes in Belarus. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the New Italian Socialist Party, I should like to express my support for the protests against the vote rigging in the Belarusian elections, in which President Lukashenko was re-elected under questionable circumstances.
The aspirations of the new Belarus are a far cry from the aims of Europe’s last remaining tyrant, Alexander Lukashenko, who has cheated at the polls, threatened the opposition in the squares and made use of prisons just as Stalin did in his day.
The hands of time must begin moving again in Minsk, as they have elsewhere. &#160;&#160; It is laudable that the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament are speaking with one voice on the issue of Belarus and that they are doing this so forcefully for the first time.
The situation in Belarus is serious enough for the Council and the Commission, as well as the Members of the European Parliament, to condemn the Russian acceptance of and support for the undemocratic regime of Aleksander Lukashenko.
As Members of the European Parliament, we shall regularly ask the Commission to update us on how it is carrying out its work and whether the procedure for transferring and spending the aid has been improved.
The fact that there were over 200&#160;amendments at the committee stage for what was and is an own-initiative report, is hopefully seen as a reflection of their priority and not entirely down to the inadequacy of the rapporteur in the first place.
I should like to thank the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and in particular the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality – with whom we had enhanced cooperation, both officially and in practice – for their valuable opinions and for the many ideas they have also contributed to this report.
However, the thrust of the report should remain clear: the challenges of an ageing population, with more people living much longer, with more older people who are inactive and need the support of others, and more older people who are active and need to support themselves, are not just problems for the elderly, but for society as a whole.
I am delighted at the support that Parliament has expressed for our Green Paper.
Ladies and gentlemen, in recent times Europe has achieved some extraordinary successes.
The demographic ageing of our society is an outcome of this success in respect of two of the corners of the population pyramid and two locations on the pyramid.
Thanks to major medical advances in the area of child care and peri-natal care, the figures for child and infant mortality have fallen to levels never before seen in history and probably unexpected up to even a few decades ago.
This success has its consequences, of course, since demographic ageing alters our entire society across all areas.
We must therefore strive to ensure that active ageing becomes a reality.
We must develop our care services for children and the elderly.
We must finally invest more in developing and retaining our human capital in such a way that we achieve high levels of employment and enable the elderly to remain active in the workforce for longer.
Despite all of this, ladies and gentlemen, it remains clear that the migrants on whom we are counting as a permanent feature of our societies in the future do not represent the answer to the problems of demographic ageing.
I would like to mention some of the issues that should be included in our programme of work over the coming years.
And in order for their natural longings and wishes to be fulfilled, we must in my view take a profound look at our society as a whole, our habits, our ways of doing things and the practices we employ.
We would like to set up a European forum on population and demographics, enabling us to understand better the various aspects involved in incorporating a demographic dimension into individual policies, and supported by recognised experts in the field as well as voluntary organisations.
In 2007 the Commission will be presenting a report on the measures taken by Member States to incorporate into their national legislation the provisions of Directive 2007/78/EC relating to age discrimination.
This makes it all the more a question of prevention, of ensuring good living conditions for all before treatment and, if treatment should be necessary, of ensuring that this is as good as possible for all Europeans.
Between 2005 and 2030 it is forecast that some 20 million people will be lost.
First of all, in the field of demography and the family, Europe should not resign itself to a decline in its population.
Improving the overall situation for children and for young people and enhancing the compatibility of work and family life for men and women, combined with tax incentives, could have a significant impact on birth rates.
Security and flexibility of the labour market will enable us to respond to the challenges of globalisation.
Only through innovation, through re-inventing ourselves, can we be sure that the challenge of demographic change will become tomorrow’s opportunity for growth. &#160;&#160; . – There is no doubt about the importance of the issue before us.
Various social protection, solidarity and social security mechanisms have seen their sustainability come under threat.
Immigration from countries outside Europe has apparently made it possible to balance activity rates in some Member States, but there are social consequences in terms of social integration and family support that must be taken into account.
Accordingly, from a European perspective, all efforts must be channelled into reconciling working life and family life in each Member State, by negotiating more flexible working hours, and by means of more appropriate and more widespread child support infrastructure.
I should like to conclude by saying that the demographic challenges currently facing Europe are serious, but that there are ways of addressing these challenges.
However, personally, I would prefer to live independently in my community with the level of social and medical assistance that I need.
Among these challenges, which the Commission has not properly addressed in the Green Paper, are the importance of sexual and reproductive health, gender mainstreaming in all studies and policies, improving people’s living standards and greater economic and social inclusion and cohesion.
The main priorities as regards managing demographic change are jobs with rights, fairer income distribution, strong public social security based on solidarity between generations, and high-quality public services, in particular in areas such as health, education, housing and social protection.
In this lecture Dr Ratner warned his Irish listeners to continue to choose life and, among the many benefits this brings, avoid the demographic suicide of our European neighbours.
Ireland’s birth rate is now falling, but we delayed the trend by 20 years and, although today we are just below replacement, we still have the healthiest birth rate, the youngest workforce and the strongest economy in the EU.
As the Commission’s Green Paper on demography states, there is no economic growth without population growth.
The second policy is to give the elderly the opportunity to remain within their communities for as long as possible.
New tax policies, extensive employment opportunities for women, the opportunity to enter the job market and undoubtedly a new and different quality of services are therefore needed. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that demographic change represents one of the greatest challenges of the present day for all the Member States of the EU.
However, demographic change should also be seen as an opportunity to achieve a new solidarity across the generations, which guarantees young people a good education, creates jobs for all and enables people to grow old with dignity.
After all, the main problem is not that the European population is declining, but that, firstly, this is disproportional from region to region; secondly, coexistence in society is at risk; and, thirdly, we are not relating demographic change in Europe to the exploding world population.
I am referring here only to the study prepared and published by the Commission, which envisages 71 years.
Furthermore, we cannot continue simply seeking a better reconciliation of working life and family life, of working time and leisure time.
Naturally, society also needs to meet the challenges of ageing, for example by means of expanding social services or, of course, by means of urban development: for example, old people’s housing, and transport designed with children and the elderly in mind.
The sustainability of the European way of life is under threat.
Wage slavery or unemployment, climbing the career ladder or having the door slammed in your face – these are the choices faced by our highly qualified young people.
Identifying these obstacles and those which exist both inside and outside the workplace (such as taxation, housing and the cost of education, health and insurance) is the responsibility of the Member States, given that the Member States alone shape both development and family policy.
But the birth rate reduction is not just a problem for Lithuania, but for the whole of Europe, and while statistically our families have less than 1.5 children each, in Asian countries, including the European Union candidate Turkey, children are born like mushrooms after the rain.
This is the precise spirit of the document presented, and once it is adopted, practical solutions should follow. &#160;&#160; – (Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr&#160;Bushill-Matthews for his outstanding report.
This latter kind of approach is usually left to the Member States.
The question of health is one of the most fundamental of all and I feel that the debate has inspired us to develop our thinking in this area further in the future.
Educating children and caring for them is also, in its way, an activity that requires very high levels of creativity, and it is clear that European citizens, if they are to decide in favour of having children, need greater security in a world that is undergoing enormous change.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the discussion and for a very concise report which shows that there is a striking tendency towards convergence in our approaches within the context of social and political thinking on Europe.
In my opinion this gives hope for a coordinated position capable of overcoming the frequently troublesome changes following elections, as five years is a very short time for many issues. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; Demographic challenges and solidarity between generations represent a complex issue having an extensive impact on our European societies.
These two are comprehensive challenges which Member States have the responsibility to address in a long-lasting, future-oriented way.
The solution should be a comprehensive, global, consistent and fair strategy encouraging understanding and lasting solidarity between the growing number of generations living side by side.
Although there are considerable differences in the local circumstances of Member States, the challenges and targets are similar – to tackle the increasing challenge of Europe’s ageing society, bearing in mind the Lisbon targets of making Europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, with greater social cohesion and sustainable economic growth capacity, and more and better jobs.
To meet these goals, complex political, economic, and social strategies are needed. &#160;&#160; The Member States face significant demographic challenges.
I regret this process and would criticise the European Parliament’s all but non-existent opposition to this undemocratic development. &#160;&#160; It is clear that if Europe is to meet its demographic challenges it must address more effectively in the future than it does today the issue of work-life balance.
Where, for instance, Russia could possibly turn off our gas supply at any time, I think we have to look to alternatives.
We have seen a new process of making paper from straw, again using much more environmentally friendly chemicals.
So it shows, as I said, that we are moving forward with all these projects.
Some set-aside land is very effective for environmental enhancement, but I think we should look very positively at using other set-aside land for fuel.
I also think we need to mix fuels much more in order to get a quality of fuel that is good for motor engines.
Finally, I would like to thank all the Members of the Committee on Agriculture and of Parliament for their support.
This was confirmed by the Heads of State at Hampton Court, and this is a window of opportunity that we simply must seize and that is what the Commission is doing.
I would specifically like to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Parish, and the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, for all the work they have been doing.
The Commission has recently issued two communications with the aim of encouraging the use of biomass: the biomass action plan and the European strategy for biofuels.
The approach is innovative and represents a high level of European added value.
As well as our specific support for energy crops of EUR&#160;45 per hectare, farmers can use set-aside land to grow non-food crops.
The sugar reform has now made sugar beet eligible for all bio-energy support schemes.
In our new rural development programming period we have the opportunity to support investments and other actions in favour of biomass for energy and other non-food purposes.
This can clearly have economic, social and environmental benefits, but we must also be sure to maintain a proper balance between the production of food and non-food.
We do not wish to develop the non-food sector in such a way as to have a negative impact on our agrifood industry or on food prices for consumers, either in the European Union or in the developing countries.
I am looking forward to a discussion here in the European Parliament on the ways of using renewable energies in a more active way. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by expressing my sincere thanks to the rapporteur for his own-initiative report, which shows great commitment, and also for taking the trouble to travel to various Member States and see for himself the kind of possibilities already existing in the renewable raw materials sector.
Renewable raw materials and renewable energy could also form the mainstays of this mix.
The use of fossil fuels on a massive scale took over from the energy for our draught animals, which was derived from plants.
The production of renewable raw materials for energy purposes is of fundamental importance to European agriculture and forestry, and to rural areas.
It has opened up new sources of income and also made an essential contribution to not only maintaining existing employment but also creating new jobs in rural areas.
Secondly, that of diversifying our sources of energy given that we know that we have to anticipate that fossil fuel will run out in 40 or 50 years’ time and that we must fight with all our might against the greenhouse effect.
Firstly, biofuels do not, on their own, constitute the whole of the agriculture policy and, in the context of this agriculture policy, we have to maintain two pillars: one linked to production and one linked to territorial and social cohesion.
I believe, therefore, that we have to commit ourselves to considering the new models that allow for diversification of agricultural production while at the same time guaranteeing a sound ecological balance for all of our territories. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by offering my sincere congratulations to Mr&#160;Parish on this balanced report, which my group expressly supports.
For us in Lower Saxony, in particular, bioenergy is vital as an alternative source of income for farmers and foresters.
The active development of renewable energy will go some way towards addressing the fossil fuel crisis.
It can lead to environmental improvements, although I agree with both the rapporteur and the Commissioner here this morning that we need to monitor this environmental impact.
Since the European Union has so profoundly failed to protect my country from price-fixing by European energy companies, the need becomes even greater.
Each nation’s needs are different and it is about time the EU took that on board. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the excellent report by Mr Parish on the promotion of crops for non-food purposes puts the problem well: at a time when the price of oil is constantly rising and when gas and oil reserves are diminishing owing to the growing needs of developing countries, it is useful to make provision for alternative energy sources.
Instead, we must recognise that rising oil prices make the cultivation of biomass interesting even without state support.
Genetic engineering springs to mind: particularly in the case of energy crops, this has the potential to bring vital economic benefits in global competition.
Politicians must supply the framework to enable this delicate plant to become a strong energy source. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like firstly to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Parish, on the work he has done in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
For example, in my country, Spain, non-food crops are in fact seen as a genuine socio-economic solution for those areas which have already been affected by the reduction or disappearance of indigenous crops, as in the case of the recent COMs in cotton and beet.
The Commissioner is well aware that it is not just a question of offering solutions to farmers in difficulties.
Through this new initiative, our environment will be improved as a result of the contribution of clean fuels.
The extremely important energy debate is opening up at a time when we are in the midst of discussions in this Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the momentum building behind green energy, combined with the pressure on traditional agriculture, unite to offer agricultural production for non-food purposes as an alternative for some, as they consider necessary diversification.
We clearly need a joined-up approach by various departments. &#160;&#160; – I also wish to congratulate Mr Parish on his report, which I welcome.
It is increasingly important to ensure energy security in the EU and greater autonomy in relation to the world outside the EU.
I feel, in this regard, that the use of biofuels could make a positive contribution.
Therefore, the request expressed in the report, that the European Commission eliminate the obstacles to plant cultivation for energy purposes in new Member States and facilitate assistance from the European Union, has particular importance.
Now they can save us from an energy crisis and breathe new life into the common agricultural policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by offering my sincere thanks to our rapporteur, Mr&#160;Parish, who has done a very good job in producing this own-initiative report.
Following the agricultural reforms, farmers can cultivate energy crops on set-aside land, but alongside food production, which remains a priority.
The vote will take place today at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; The promotion of crop production for non-food purposes is a unique opportunity that can potentially bring considerable social, economic and environmental benefits for European farmers and rural economies.
I am not sure that is the case for all Members. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to request a clarification, an addition.
After ‘management expenditure for’ the following phrase: ‘any executive agency created or extended to administer this programme’ &#160;&#160; Are there any objections to this oral amendment? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to table an oral amendment with the intention of changing recital&#160;C.
The text would then read as follows: … ‘whereas there are three main objectives for EU energy policy: security of supply, competitiveness and environmental sustainability’. &#160;&#160; Are there any objections to this oral amendment? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I rise on a point of order under Rule&#160;151 on inadmissibility of amendments.
I would therefore respectfully ask you to move on to the next item of business and defer this until we have a proper voting list. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, the services say that the voting lists have been available since yesterday evening.
We now have 10 party families, which shows the variety of our political culture.
European parties are a necessary part of European democracy, and we hope, above all, that the parties nominate top candidates for the office of Commission President before the next European elections, so that the public has the choice between personalities and programmes and is able to participate in deciding what kind of Europe it wants.
I would ask the House to adopt the report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, could you tell us whether any Members of this House declared a financial interest before voting on the previous report? &#160;&#160; To my knowledge, no Member has made a declaration.
I will remind you of the rule: we have a special register with which to declare once and for all any financial interests, thus obviating the need to declare any possible financial interests at every debate.
I voted in favour of adopting the report, and I believe that by adopting this agreement we in the European Parliament are showing our desire to strengthen our relations with the independent state of Israel, the only democratic country in the Middle East.
It is important that we in the European Parliament support countries where European values, such as democracy, human rights and the principles of the rule of law are in effect.
Accordingly, Israel needs our undivided support.
I hope that this vote will send the signal that we in the European Parliament respect basic European values, and that we cannot permit cooperation or negotiations with the terrorist organisation Hamas, which has come to power in the Palestinian Autonomous Area.
Before we can even talk about negotiations, Hamas must unambiguously 1) acknowledge Israel’s right to be a Jewish state, 2) cease all acts of terror, 3) give up its weapons, 4) refuse to support other violent groups, and 5) respect existing international agreements between Israel and the PA (Oslo Accords, the Roadmap, etc.).
It is important to support independent, democratic Israel and its right to exist. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, people are starting to leave, so I shall be brief.
I am also particularly in favour of this Action Programme as it will put health and consumer issues at the centre of policy-making in the EU. &#160;&#160; .I should like to congratulate Mrs Thyssen, who has done an excellent piece of work.
Nevertheless, I am still extremely worried about the Council’s proposals concerning the Community’s budget for 2007 to 2013, which would lead in a few years time to a drastic reduction in the current policy for consumer protection at European level.
It is unthinkable that this budget should be reduced to EUR&#160;5 million a year in 2009, that is to say one cent a year for each European consumer.
Nonetheless, I am voting in favour of this report. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am including the Parish report when I say that there are three things that Europe needs to secure its future: firstly, a healthy environment, particularly in terms of air, water and soil; secondly, healthy food and enough of it; and, thirdly, energy.
In this respect, it was disastrous when, a few months ago, in this Chamber, Tony Blair defamed farmers in Europe, in particular, as backward-looking.
Every cent that we invest in agriculture and in rural areas is an investment in the future of Europe.
The key to securing Europe’s future – and this is a revolutionary development of which we have yet to take nearly enough account – lies to an ever-increasing extent in our rural areas and rural, decentralised structures. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to propose a calculation justifying why I voted in favour of nuclear power.
If emissions in the EU are cut by approximately 100 million tonnes of carbon dioxide in the first phase of emissions trading, the market price in terms of emissions permits will be 2.5&#160;billion a year at current prices.
A cautious estimate is that the price of electricity in the European wholesale electricity market could rise on average by EUR 10 per megawatt-hour as a result of emissions trading.
If you imagine, however, that an investment of 3&#160;billion would result in cuts of approximately 10 million tonnes of carbon dioxide through the use of nuclear power, the 30&#160;billion would in fact result in that annual cut in emissions through the construction of nuclear power plants, with the difference that the electricity produced could still be sold. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the joint resolution submitted by four political groups on the security of energy supply in the European Union.
This path can only serve to strengthen the economic and financial groups, and will not lead to any improvement for the economically weakest countries and the people who live there. &#160;&#160; .We are partly in agreement with the statements made in this resolution: concern about our countries’ dependency on energy, and its possible economic and social consequences; and the need to promote local renewable energy sources that are more environmentally friendly, to invest in energy efficiency or to research new ways of saving energy.
The market principle alone is not compatible with the pursuit of national strategic objectives or the safeguarding of a country’s vital interests.
The most serious problem is that these elements of the equation are very difficult to change.
The economic growth of giants such as Brazil, Russia, India and China is a predictable and, fortunately, incontrovertible fact.
Furthermore, even if there is some increase in the production and processing capacity – assuming that the capacity of refineries is resolved in time – the finite nature of these resources is also irreversible.
I also feel that this debate can only be realistic if nuclear energy can be included in the debate alongside renewable energy.
Lastly, I endorse the Green Paper, and the resolution, especially as it introduces the issue of security into the debate. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, anyone who has ever flown over Africa in daylight knows how much the Democratic Republic of Congo is its geostrategic heart.
However, we must take this as a serious warning to make sure our common foreign and security policy also has the necessary instruments for peacekeeping at its disposal at long last. &#160;&#160; The current situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo is very worrying.
The situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo must be resolved, but not through the deployment of a joint EU force.
Military action in the Democratic Republic of Congo is steeped in this approach and paves the way for further military operations in the future.
Hence our vote against. &#160;&#160; – The EU decision to send the military forces of the Euro-army to the Democratic Republic of Congo relates to competition between the imperialist forces to control the markets and the wealth-producing resources of the Congo and Africa in general, which has paid for this policy with millions of lives.
The second organised military mission of the Euro-army after Bosnia also demonstrates its aggressive, interventionist character.
The EU has not even been able to fulfil its meagre security obligations to Sudan, where it insisted on a role when NATO was already committed.
We therefore voted against the resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to explain why I voted in favour of Mr&#160;Leinen’s report on the regulation of European political parties and on their funding.
I am sure that, if I cried out ‘Pensioners, take a stand!’ in the 25 languages of the European Union, pensioners from the other 24 EU Member States would also support me because the European political party goes right to the heart of the population.
Where we could explore a useful way of linking the European elections to the idea of choice for citizens, is by taking up the idea that our rapporteur made just a few minutes ago, namely that each European political party should name its candidate for President of the Commission.
That would make a link between the vote for a parliament and the resultant composition of the executive that people are indeed used to when they vote in national elections in European countries. &#160;&#160; It is important for us to have political parties at European level.
They play an important role in disseminating political information and knowledge of European policy, as well as in promoting democratic values and creating a European consciousness.
What is needed is more high-quality jobs with rights, better public services, more employment-generating investment and greater social inclusion, along with fairer distribution of wealth. &#160;&#160; .The European political parties are merely extremely lucrative organisations.
The ultimate outcome for you would be if they were authorised to participate as such in national and local ballots, thereby allowing unacceptable political meddling at all levels of decision making in the Member States.
Parties must be constructed from the bottom up by the parties in the Member States.
On 18 June 2003, I voted against legalisation of this abuse, and today, I am voting against a further expansion.
The fact that they are now demanding an increase in subsidies and more flexible rules that apply to those subsidies, creates the impression that politicians are more concerned about the interests of their own groups than those of their electorate. &#160;&#160; – The Kommounistiko Komma Elladas opposes the EU decision to create European political parties which it wants to control and use to defend or promote a one-way street in Europe.
Within the framework of the so-called 'European communications policy', in other words of the ideological attack by capital, and making use of the 'phase of reflection’, it mobilises initiatives, regional authorities, NGOs, the media, journalists and political parties in favour of a one-way street in Europe for the purposes of propaganda and in order to resurrect the Euro-Constitution and raise the 'low stock' of the ΕU in the eyes of the workers of Europe.
We are voting against the report, refusing any declaration of loyalty to the imperialist alliance of capital, the ΕU, and we call for opposition, insubordination and disobedience. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, before boarding my flight yesterday to come to Brussels today, I shouted out ‘Pensioners, take a stand!’, as I always do.
Recital 70 on immigration policy springs to mind, although I have to confess, incidentally, that even this recital contains a phrase that is remarkably nuanced for this House.
In this connection, my group has for a long time argued in favour of fully-fledged parent wages, including social security and accrual of pension rights for the parent staying at home and looking after under-age children.
I am convinced that this measure could also go a long way towards providing an answer to the enormous demographic challenge which we are currently facing. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, singles are praised in the contemporary media as the measure of all things.
Families with several children are virtually seen as antisocial.
It is no coincidence that those countries that have succeeded in this have higher birth rates. &#160;&#160; We voted in favour of the report on demographic challenges and solidarity between the generations.
However, we voted against the wording to the effect that increased taxes designed to fund social security offer a less sustainable solution in the long term.
Nor do we support the European Parliament’s calling on the Member States and private companies to break the link between higher ages and higher wage levels. &#160;&#160; The Swedish Conservatives have today chosen to abstain from voting in the vote on demographic challenges and solidarity between the generations.
The reason is that it concerns issues that fall within the Member States’ areas of competence. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of Mr Bushill-Matthews’ report on demographic challenges and solidarity between the generations.
We have to find other ways, and urgently; all the countries of the European Union are faced with this challenge.
The world is growing older.
In 2030, the EU will have 18&#160;million fewer young people than at the moment, and in 2050, it will have 60&#160;million fewer inhabitants.
The number of children per woman in 2003 was 1.48, whilst at least 2.1 children per woman would be required to maintain the population level.
Mindful of the consequences of these factors on prosperity, standards of living and relations between the generations, I voted for this report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I strongly support the maximal development of bioenergy, but when we talk about promoting the cultivation of non-food crops in connection with self-sufficiency in energy, we need to point out that liquid biofuels are by no means cost-effective.
Also, the EU cannot even produce enough biofuels to meet the targets set out in the biofuel directive.
I am deeply disappointed and saddened by the decision to close the last sugar factory in Ireland.
Biofuels will contribute to Europe’s energy self-sufficiency, at a time of rising oil prices and in light of the recent controversy over gas supplies from Russia. &#160;&#160; We have voted in favour of the report on the promotion of crops for non-food purposes because we think it is a good idea for farmers to plant crops other than the traditional ones when the latter no longer pay their way.
It is important for these new products to be developed and to thrive in a free market without subsidies.
This will ultimately benefit the citizens and their quality of life, as well as the economic sectors involved.
While these techniques will not solve our energy problems, they can make a small but significant contribution.
I am in favour of the promotion of renewable energy through the production of crops.
Several current technologies, such as energy derived from biomass, are economically viable and competitive and will, in turn, open up new markets for farmers in the European Union, thus stimulating economic, social and environmental growth. &#160;&#160; I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
