The bilateral and multilateral relations that link the EU and Switzerland are very good.
Our bilateral relations are based on a solid foundation of around 20 important and over 100 smaller sector-specific agreements.
These agreements range from free trade in goods and the free movement of persons to Swiss participation in our research and Schengen cooperation.
All criteria of Article 23 of the agreement of 1972, the provision which declares such state aid incompatible with the proper functioning of the agreement, are therefore fulfilled.
Member States support the Commission in this respect, and such a mandate is currently being prepared in the Council.
We proceed from the belief that we will find a solution for this problem, just as we have always found solutions for problems in our relations with Switzerland in the past.
Bulgaria and Romania should also receive a financial contribution from Switzerland for the reduction of economic and social disparities, on the same terms as the other 10 new Member States.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the statements made today by Commissioner Almunia.
Mr President, Commissioner, I welcome your statement, because you have taken note of what we have been saying for some time now, namely that the practice that is being developed in certain Swiss cantons - without mentioning the main ones of Zug, Vaud and Schwyz - constitutes a violation of the 1972 agreement on forms of State aid that contradict the rules of fair competition and that affect the nature of trade between the European Union and Switzerland.
Here in Parliament we have long wanted to discuss the whole of our relationship with Switzerland and to celebrate Swiss success in three successive referendums on EU issues - referendums that would scarcely have passed in many of our Member States.
If the Swiss federal tax system were well known to the taxpayers of the EU Member States, it would be a model to be imitated - as indeed it is - especially with a view to protecting economic freedom.
Lastly, the important principle of the guarantee to property, enshrined in Article 26 of the Federal Constitution, forbids the imposition of tax when it takes the form of expropriation; thus the guarantee to property constitutes a limit to taxation.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when Swiss citizens rejected entry to the European Economic Area back in 1992, no one would have been able to imagine today's emerging developments.
I wish you well in your negotiations and look forward to a positive outcome. (LT) First of all, I would like to thank Commissioner Almunia for the information he has presented about relations between the European Union and Switzerland.
However, I would like to hear what Mr Almunia has to say about the ultimate political goal of these relations.
I hope that Commissioner Almunia might disperse my stated doubts by responding to the issues I have raised. (PL) Mr President, Switzerland is viewed as a historic example of European integration by many people.
We need only to think of Jean Jacques Rousseau or Johannes von Müller.
Let us remember that, in a referendum held in 1992, 50.3% of Swiss citizens themselves voted against their country joining the European Economic Area.
This is extremely important in order to achieve transparency in terms of our cooperation.
Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner had the opportunity to meet the President of the Helvetic Confederation on 3 April.
I do not know whether you are aware that over 20 000 letter-box companies have been established in Switzerland with the sole purpose of avoiding taxation in the European Union Member States.
We are asking the Council for a mandate to negotiate with the Swiss authorities to reach a solution to this conflict.
