Our main objective has been to draw up proposals for a common vision to govern the activities of Parliament, the Council and the Commission over the coming years.
It will identify the main economic, social and environmental challenges upon which our success will depend, and it will put forward priorities and solutions.
This is why this debate is important.
I want to hear Parliament’s proposals, as they will be an essential contribution to our joint thinking.
Because I am sure that the success of this Commission, of this Parliament and of the European project that we share depends on our showing that the European Union can make a difference, both within our borders and without.
Just as we are now preparing to ratify the European Constitution, we must not forget Europe’s remarkable achievements: half a century of peace and of social and economic development, as well as the recent enlargement representing the reunification of our continent.
We must not, however, underestimate the challenges that we face and that require a Europe-wide response: the increasing age of our populations, the damage done to the environment and the effects of climate change, the need to adapt our economy to the competitive context of globalisation, and the threats to our peace and security.
Today I do not intend to present a detailed account of our work in progress before listening to you; I would, however, like to outline the main elements of our approach.
To connect the European Union with its citizens we must earn the confidence of Europeans every day by providing answers to their concerns.
The Lisbon strategy is both a diagnostic and a list of tasks to perform.
This must be done with the Member States, who share the responsibility for implementation, and in a constructive dialogue with the social partners.
Economic growth is not an end in itself.
Europeans are concerned about the sustainability of our social model – our solidarity mechanisms, health and pension systems.
The only way to secure these goods is to generate the necessary resources to that end, and therefore to secure economic growth.
The Commission will actively promote initiatives to provide our citizens with a better level of personal security and therefore of personal freedom.
We must complete the internal market on the basis of clear and simple regulations.
We can also do this by supporting our strategic objectives with a new way of working inspired by the Constitution.
All this must amount to a positive agenda for reform.
But all this will not be achieved in a vacuum.
A number of states want to join our Union.
We also have neighbours and we need to better structure our relationship with them, to tackle common problems and promote stability.
We have a duty of solidarity with the poorest regions of the world, particularly Africa.
Our values of democracy, freedom and respect for human rights imposes on us the responsibility of promoting them worldwide.
I should like to say another word or two about my initiative to develop joint strategic objectives.
One the one hand, the concept of multiannual planning is now enshrined in the Constitution.
For the time being, however, we are solely committed to coordinating the planning for the three institutions, without going as far as coordinating our strategic visions for the medium- and long-term future.
On the other hand, although it is true that the previous Commissions presented their vision, this did not always represent the expression of a real partnership with Parliament or the Council.
The practical result was that Europe was being driven without a sufficiently clear roadmap, the consequence being that we were sometimes diverted from our route by external international events and that our priorities changed too much as a result of the political agendas of the different presidencies.
Our joint strategic objectives must act as a global navigation system for Europe for the next five years.
Nonetheless, our joint objectives will certainly help us to define priorities to be used later to assess the work of our institutions: the Commission, Parliament and the Council.
It eventually got a resounding vote of confidence, and our Group voted for it with a large degree of unanimity.
Fourthly, there is a need to shape a policy that makes a clean environment possible and offers people a better quality of life.
The fifth and final priority is to make the European Union more open, more receptive to new ideas and more democratic, to enable it to work better and with less red tape.
What I ask, in other words, is that all these things should be taken into account in the Commission’s administrative practice as early as the stage at which proposals are presented.
It is Europe’s competitiveness that determines whether people in the European Union have work and the wherewithal to live.
Our main concern must be to maintain and create jobs, and we can do that only if we make Europe more competitive.
I can tell Mr Poettering that ‘no experiments’ will not get the European Union very far.
I therefore take it as read that you will take what the Socialist Group says on board and that it will also be reflected in the initiatives you put forward.
If we want economic policy in the European Union to be guided – as Mr Poettering put it – by economic reforms, then, just so we can make it clear where the faultlines are that divide consensus from conflict, I can tell you – Mr Poettering, Mr Barroso – that such economic reforms, always and above all, add up to one thing.
The two are different sides of the same coin.
Mr Poettering’s second point, in which he mentioned anti-terrorism in the same breath as asylum and immigration, struck me as combining two quite different phenomena in a dangerous way.
The Europe we expect – and this is what our group is striving for – is both humane and concerned to guard its citizens’ security, one whose external borders are secured as consistently as possible, but which also treats humanely those who need our protection.
We talk about a clean environment and need a sustainable policy for it, but we also have to set out in plain terms what has again become apparent in Buenos Aires over the past week, that the failure of a sustainable worldwide policy for the environment is not the European Union’s doing.
A model of democracy founded upon multinationality and multi-ethnic structures, which is what the European Union is, can be a winner when it comes to exporting peace to the world, because balance and acceptance are at the heart of the European Union – the balance between large and small and the acceptance of minorities in particular.
If you base Europe’s international policy on this message that we seek internal balance – as we are at the moment helping to do in Ukraine – and that we seek political rather than military solutions to ethnic conflicts, then you will always have the Socialist Group on your side. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the ALDE Group supports the Lisbon process as the best way of achieving a competitive European economy and it maintains that sustainable economic development has to be a guiding principle in all future regulatory initiatives.
I therefore urge you, Commissioner, not to mix up the fight against terrorism with human rights and the concerns for human rights.
Furthermore, active participation in the labour market makes a substantial contribution to a decent standard of living, regional development and social cohesion, although investment in education and research, as well as government action in cases of serious market failure, also have a key role to play.
The ALDE Group firmly believes that a robust and dynamic economic environment in the European Union can only come about if the new Commission commits itself to reviewing the Stability and Growth Pact so that it provides a strong bulwark against fiscal irresponsibility, while maintaining the necessary flexibility to ensure that Europe maximises its growth potential without endangering price stability.
The ALDE Group is fully prepared to cooperate with the Commission along this very stony path that we have to walk together, but this must be based on sustainable development. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that during today’s debate many fellow Members of various political groups, some of them quite unexpectedly, have spoken at length about sustainability.
Therefore, we strongly urge the Commission to be more determined in taking into account the EU’s key commitments, such as sustainability, social cohesion and gender equality, in all its policy proposals, and to make a real commitment to restoring a balance among the three Lisbon Agenda pillars – economic, social and environmental – in order to avoid promoting inflexible economic objectives at the expense of the quality of our citizens’ individual lives.
We call on the Commission to put forward bold proposals for a coordinated effort to give fresh impetus to investment in environmental technologies and measures to promote employment.
We cannot refrain from expressing our thoughts on human rights in China and Russia or on the war in Chechnya for commercial and economic reasons.
The third and final commitment relates to the ability to truly represent the interests of the European Union as a union, by managing not to be overly influenced by the power relations between individual countries and with the Council in general, and by finding true alliances between those in the European Parliament, the voluntary sector and business who share the idea that the European Union is much more than the sum of the EU governments.
Mr President, in conclusion I would like to mention at least four fundamental points in the interinstitutional agreement which we would like to enter into with you.
The second concerns the issue of impact assessment.
The European Parliament is moving slowly on this front.
The third point relates to the reopening of the issue of access to documents.
We are extremely dissatisfied with the current situation and sincerely hope that in the coming years we will succeed in obtaining a positive outcome.
The first signal could relate to the draft directive on the liberalisation of services, commonly known as the Bolkestein Directive, to which Mr Schulz and Mrs Frassoni have referred.
At the very heart of the draft lies the infamous country of origin principle, which is intended to allow service providers to apply the social legislation in force in their home countries in all Member States.
My belief is that such a measure will not be accepted by our fellow citizens.
My request is therefore simple, Mr Barroso: withdraw the Bolkestein Directive and initiate a broad debate on the subject.
A second signal could concern the plan to set up holding centres for refugees and migrants on the southern shore of the Mediterranean or in other countries outside the Union.
Here again, my request is simple: put a complete end to these plans.
The third signal should, in our view, involve the interminable and dramatic conflict in the Middle East.
We are now at the end of 2004 and our undertaking is nowhere near even starting to be implemented.
The main obstacle is Sharon.
My request in this case, Mr Barroso, would be that you should remove all ambiguity in this area by answering a twofold question: what are you going to require of Mr Sharon and what measures do you recommend if he persists in ignoring you?
You talked this morning about leading in Europe, and there is much talk of five-year plans, of the great visions that you have; but it seems to me that you have one or two problems.
You know as well as I do that the gap between what you want and what the ordinary voters want is getting wider.
Perhaps the Constitution and the referendums that we are going to have offer us both a chance for a solution; but they must be free and fair referendums.
The Lisbon strategy is a splendid idea, but it has to be remembered that if Europe is to compete with the rest of the world, its economy must be soundly based on freedom.
Much has been said in this House about the need for a knowledge-based economy and for an economy based on social values, and rightly so.
Nonetheless, unless Europe’s economy is based on freedom, it will be unable to compete successfully with the rest of the world.
The wind generators one cannot fail to notice when travelling through the beautiful countryside in the Black Forest area are a similar case.
These useless loss-making monsters are actually subsidised by the German Government and the European Union.
It is important to bear in mind the visual aspect of the environment and not to equate environmental issues with the defence of all conceivable animal rights.
Moral values also have an important role to play.
Your actions do not bode well for the future of moral values in Europe.
I am well aware that citizens of the old Union holiday in those countries.
I also realise that citizens of the old Union meet people from those countries as they go about their daily lives back in Europe.
It must be understood, however, that foreign policy also involves what lies beyond the Union’s eastern border.
Mr&#160;Barroso, it is essential to be guided by moral principles and common sense if weare to come up with something more than empty phrases.
I should therefore like to ask your Commission, perhaps in collaboration with the Council, to give a clear message, as soon as possible, to all citizens of the European Union as to what will happen if the European Constitution is not ratified in the next two years in one single country.
I do not think that the new countries are so inferior that there should be these two different outcomes, and I think that the citizens of the European Union deserve a clear answer as to what will happen if the European Constitution fails to go through in one single country.
I therefore consider it to be of the utmost importance that both the citizens and this Parliament should be given an answer as to what will happen if the European Constitution does not come into force. &#160;&#160; One of the chapters of the proposal for a decision put forth by the European People’s Party and European Democrats is about how to get Europe closer to its citizens.
The European Parliament is the only directly-elected body of the European Union, and with the election of the European Parliament and the establishment of the Commission, a clear and unequivocal direct link has been established for the first time in the sense that the parties with the most votes will have a more definite say in the Commission’s decisions on the issues that concern the citizens of Europe the most.
According to the European People’s Party and European Democrats, there are three fundamentally important questions to be addressed by the new Commission over the next five years: competitiveness, cohesion and security, all of which have been mentioned by the President of our party.
I believe that growth, the encouragement of small and medium-sized enterprises and consequently job growth, research and development are fundamental goals of Europe that promote the welfare of European citizens.
As far as research and development are concerned, let me add that it is the European People’s Party’s determined policy to promote ethical research.
As to security, I would like to point out to the President as well, that if we examine the question of security from the European citizens’ viewpoint, then crime, crime that crosses borders, illegal immigration and terrorism are indeed interrelated questions.
It is by no means an accident that notions of freedom, security and justice are so strongly dependent on each other and from the citizens’ point of view they are downright inseparable.
This is not only in the vital interest of citizens from new Member States, but also in the interest of those from existing members.
The expansion has only been completed from a legal point of view.
There is still a lot to do on the social and economic front and the European Union must help new states catch up and provide the means to create unity within the European Union.
With the expansion, the European Union has become a much more diverse place, but its problems have also become more diverse.
We propose to you a five-year programme in which Europe’s development of the Lisbon strategy is placed within a time frame as specific as the one devised when we duly created the internal market in 1992.
Thirdly, we need a Commission proposal that can strengthen companies’ social responsibility, especially in the light of outsourcing and the major problems involved in European conversion.
Fourthly, we need to strengthen gender equality in the work place.
Sixthly, we need the Commission’s programme genuinely to give higher priority to research, development and training within the financial estimates.
Eighthly, we need a charter for services of general interest that can establish the principles governing citizens’ rights in the modern welfare state.
Ninthly, Mr&#160;Barroso, we need a list of common principles governing ‘best practice’ when it comes to the exchange of information about the integration of immigrants into our society.
We need the Commission to present an ambitious plan to the European Council by June 2005 to increase EU aid to developing countries, a plan to ensure that, in 2009, we make an overall contribution of 0.5% of GDP and that we establish a ‘road map’ to achieve 0.7% in 2015.
Mr Barroso, I have very quickly mentioned a number of the important points I believe are fundamental to the success of the Commission’s work.
I look forward to sensible cooperation in people’s best interests. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, it is by no means easy to deliver an appreciation of the Commission’s strategic policy objectives in two and a half minutes, but, as we are in such festive spirits, I do have this to say on the subject.
This is an important field for the EU, and one in which this House expects, from 2005, to be fully involved, for our European society is founded upon the rule of law, and every citizen allows himself to be guided by the standards set by the Community, believing as he does that these have been examined and approved by the majority of his legitimate representatives.
Both Tampere and the Hague Programme are good examples of a Community approach that involves everyone.
My wish is that we should press on with this open dialogue instead of forming ourselves into small clubs.
My third wish is that due account be taken of the need for data protection.
I would like Commissioner Frattini to remember that he has indicated his agreement to this.
My fourth wish – and my last for today – is that the European Union should face terrorism head-on, and that it should show that democracy also means the defence of democracy.
However, I hope you will make all our Christmases merry and bright.
I refer to paragraph 3 in the Christmas list in the name of Mrs Frassoni and Mr Cohn-Bendit and the reference to the subsidiarity protocol, which is the biggest opportunity your Commission has to put meaning to the often empty phrases about subsidiarity and bringing Europe closer to the people.
The subsidiarity protocol represents an opportunity for the Commission to do something brave and new.
It is perfectly possible for the Commission to act as if the protocol were in force from this afternoon.
Regardless of any decision on the Constitution itself, this Commission could act in a way totally unlike its predecessors and involve the relevant institution at the relevant time, regardless of whether or not it is a nation-state parliament.
The relevant institution for the Commission to deal with in Scotland is the European Parliament and the Scottish Parliament and yet our flag is not there.
I would urge you, Mr Barroso, to make our Christmas merry and bright and use your Commission and the subsidiarity protocol to put meaning to the phrases about subsidiarity, about bringing Europe home, because you will gain, we will gain and Europe will gain. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, the economic policy guidelines for the European Union’s strategy are laid down in the Constitutional Treaty.
Let me cite three examples from Part III: Article 177/78, which lays down the principle of an open market economy with free competition; Article 147/48 which downgrades services of public general interest guaranteed by individual states; and Article 203, which makes employment policy subordinate to economic policy.
Everything the Commission does is done according to the same blueprint; you ask for a navigation system, but you already have one, in the shape of the directive on services, the directive on ports, and the third railway package.
If you really want advice as to how the European Commission should set its navigation system, then I can give you some in very brief terms: do it socially rather than taking a radically free-market approach! &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we are all taxpayers, and we all pay subscriptions to the EU.
We are also all citizens with different views of the Constitution.
Nonetheless, all the EU bodies now propose that we who are opposed to the Constitution should pay subsidies to those who are in favour of it.
She would do much better to stick to her own proposal, which is much more reminiscent of Grundtvig’s message of ‘freedom for Loki as well as for Thor’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that one of the new Commission’s priorities ought to be to begin a constructive debate on the Stability Pact and possible reforms to it.
Mr President of the Commission, you have a&#160;very important role and ultimately, as this discussion shows, it is difficult to build but easy to criticise.
I&#160;assure you that the debate following the introduction of your programme will be far more dramatic than todays, when it is our task to present to you our aims and our dreams.
First and foremost, I&#160;would urge you to address the future in your programmes, by which I&#160;mean concern for the next generation, for young people and education.
I&#160;would also urge you to give priority to the past and show concern for the generation which is ageing, concern for older people.
The first experimental and very clear aim will be the Constitutional Agreement mentioned by my colleague, Mrs Bobošíková.
For the first time, you are President of the Commission of the enlarged Community.
I&#160;cannot speak for all the Members, but I&#160;can say that those of us who are here for Slovakia and for my political party are always ready to engage in constructive discussion and to participate in your programme.
I&#160;will keep my fingers crossed for you, Mr President, and I&#160;believe that in January you will succeed in putting together a&#160;programme that is in line with our goals.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the strategic policy should mainly be focused on big issues.
We need to tackle the issue of security as a broad concept, like peace in Europe or peace in the world.
Our citizens must feel that their lives and living conditions are safe.
A stable, healthy and growing economy nevertheless requires instruments such as the Stability and Growth Pact.
Finally, I would like to refer back to yesterday’s debate on Turkey.
If enlargement comes about too quickly, it might lessen our chances of achieving the results we want to see in the economy and with regard to security.
On the one hand, the European Union appeals to the outside world – consider Ukraine, the Southern Caucasus, Turkey, to which reference has just been made, but also the migration that is going on, the fact that Europe is a destination for all, or many, states or individuals.
I believe that the public’s perception that the social model or the European model are in danger imperils the European Union as a whole.
As reference has already been made to the Services Directive, let me say that I think that it, in the form in which it has been presented, may well be an example of how ordinary people can come to believe what they do.
A lot of people are afraid not only that their social rights or their rights as employees are now being eroded, but also that the same thing is happening to their rights as consumers, quite simply because the principle has gained acceptance that, in future, the lowest consumer standards should prevail and become normative across Europe instead of higher, or perhaps even the highest, consumer standards.
That being so, Mr Barroso, I urge you and your Commission to get back to supporting and reinforcing the European model of social and economic policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, my group expects the Commission to do at least as well as its predecessors in terms of external and security policy.
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner and Mr Mandelson are faced with the difficult task of continuing the policy of Mr Patten and Mr Lamy while maintaining the good rapport with Mr Solana as before.
We expect the Commission to prepare and guide the accessions that are in the pipeline, including that of Turkey, and to adopt a policy of in-depth work with our new neighbours.
Those are all fairly traditional complaints, but we expect more from you.
We expect you to further shape the Africa policy without losing sight of promoting democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
We also expect the Commission to continue the policy of Mr Lamy and Mr Fischler in terms of world trade.
Indeed, the Union’s efforts are absolutely essential to enhance the Doha development agenda.
Last, but not least, we expect the Commission to promote multilateralism in order to contribute to a more balanced, and thus, safer world. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the programme statements by the new Commission may not be admissible in evidence, but they were submitted.
The faster implementation of the Lisbon strategy, with increased working hours and times, reduced wages, pensions and unemployment benefits, specialisation in part-time and temporary work, the abolition of collective agreements and privatisation in the health, education and welfare sectors will bring more profit for capital and more poverty and unemployment for workers.
The so-called 'European Constitution' and the Hague programme will result in the further militarisation of Europe, with the development of arms programmes and massacre of the individual and collective rights and freedoms of the peoples on the pretext of terrorism.
The peoples of Europe should be concerned and, at the same time, should step up their fight.
We MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece shall fight with them in order to put a stop to the new anti-grass roots tempest which is building up. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Parliament is today debating the Commission’s strategic and political goals, and the memory of the recent confrontation between these European institutions is still fresh.
In many different ways, this House is reminding President Barroso of the fact that, under pressure from the European Parliament, he has made far-reaching promises at times.
We take the view that the Commission should shape this policy in such a way that the European Union does not redraw ethical boundaries.
The Commission should keep well away from a unilateral campaign in favour of the European Constitution.
Substantial research has still not been done into the effects of immigration from Turkey.
The EU is becoming ever more estranged from its people.
Commissioner Michel explained why that was when he was still Foreign Affairs Minister in Belgium.
According to him, our western democracies would not have the wherewithal to control and frame a public debate on subjects of that kind.
Europe has a serious problem where its democratic legitimacy, and its being held accountable, are concerned, and there looks to be no sign of improvement in the near future – quite the reverse, in fact. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Commission has already given this Parliament proof of his determination and enthusiasm by taking on the leadership of the European Union’s executive body on a ticket of reforming practices, policies and procedures.
It is the search for that constant balance – which some call common sense – that for the last fifty years has enabled Europe to develop the social model that is the driving force behind Europe’s identity.
Today, however, we are faced with a reality in which there have recently appeared a number of hitherto unknown aspects: a worrying demographic situation together with unprecedented technological evolution, one of the principal factors to have consolidated the phenomenon that has made the world a smaller place: globalisation.
In these circumstances, for Europe to remain an area that lives up to the winning model, we must wholeheartedly accept the inevitability of carrying out reforms that will first and foremost enhance our competitiveness.
This is also an area in which I believe Parliament should take action. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the introduction to your speech, Mr President of the Commission, you said that it was important to demonstrate that Europe could make a difference.
When you present your proposals in January, our group will be listening particularly attentively to your Commission’s choice of economic strategy.
In this context, a number of speeches have referred to a link between the economic dimension, the social dimension and the environment, which is, I believe, no more than rhetoric and masks a real difference in approach.
We believe that, in choosing an economic strategy, we are choosing a social model and if we choose an economic strategy that is only based on liberalisation, this will be at the expense of the social model.
If the price to be paid for developing the internal market in services is that our social services – our health services – are to be deregulated, that a number of services of general interest are to be put at risk and that employment law is under threat as a result of the country of origin rule, then I do not believe the return of competitiveness will in itself allow us to retain elements of the European social model.
The Clinton years in the United States showed that it is possible to have economic growth rightly based on investment in the knowledge economy and in new technologies, but without pulling the social model up with it, since the President did not, at that time, have a majority in Congress or political support for the implementation of a social policy that would provide for such a balance.
We are therefore serious about this interdependence of the economy, social aspects and the environment.
What must also be borne in mind is the need to reduce frictional unemployment and the fact that there have been a number of successes, for example in the Scandinavian countries, achieved thanks to investment in training.
Against this backdrop, we also await an initiative with regard to the revision of the directive on European works councils, which is now experiencing enormous delays compared to the other directives on information and consultation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am sorry to supplement Mr Barroso's catalogue of strategic priorities – which has already grown during the debate – but I hope that the Commission will focus upon the necessity of preventing a collapse in the transatlantic partnership.
We have to fight for it across the Atlantic as well as within our Member States.
The public should be informed of the sheer folly of rejecting the Constitution and of what the outcome would be for an enfeebled European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, in adopting the Lisbon strategy one of the objectives that Europe set itself was the ambitious goal of becoming the most advanced knowledge society in the world.
This step change necessitates a rise in research investment to 3 per cent, at the level both of individual Member States and of the European Union as a whole.
The Prodi Commission’s proposal aimed at an expenditure ceiling of 1.24 per cent of gross national income, but some major EU countries have already publicly set a maximum limit of 1 per cent.
With such a reduced budget it would truly be wishful thinking to go on talking of a renewed impetus in research in Europe and of becoming the most advanced society. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am delighted that Mr&#160;Barroso wishes to be informed of the views held by this House on the work of the Commission.
Not a single European Union competence has been devolved to the Member States since the principle of subsidiarity was announced.
It is time to recognise that Member States must not be dictated to over issues they are very well able to settle for themselves.
The Member States need to regain their freedom.
My third comment is that the worst type of regulation is to be found in the common agricultural policy, which should be done away with.
There is one notable exception to this rule, however.
The common agricultural policy is also unfair to poor countries outside the Union, and it should simply be dispensed with.
My last comment concerns the approaching referendums on the Constitution.
Care must be taken to ensure that they are democratic, and that both supporters and opponents of the Constitution enjoy equal rights and equal access to the public media.
It is all well and good to support democracy in Ukraine, Iraq and Palestine, but first and foremost we must nurture it amongst ourselves. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I have six ideas to put to you.
I mean that everyone should have to abide by common rules, that all must obey the Treaties, that all must implement decisions, that the Commission must avail itself more of its right of initiative and must monitor more.
The rules are sufficient, but there is a lack of political will and determination.
Mr President of the Commission, I urge you to withdraw Commissioner Almunia’s proposal on the Stability and Growth Pact, which weakens the Commission and Community law.
Fifthly, make Europe more secure and stronger on the world stage, with the common foreign and security policy, the common defence policy, a common asylum and immigration policy, and a stronger United Nations.
What we need is not for Germany to have the right of veto in the Security Council, but for the European Union to be a permanent member of it.
In my view, the Commission, and also its President, play a major role in controlling policy cohesion and must ensure that the Commission’s tasks and the Council’s responsibilities are coordinated effectively.
What is important in this is, of course, the correct use of all instruments which the European Union has at its disposal.
What we mainly expect, and ask, from the Commission is, pending the adoption and ratification of the Constitution, is that it should continue to work in the same spirit and now to look for a model of integration in which the scope of the different pillars, namely the first, second and third pillars, can be combined.
The second point that is of importance to us is the EU’s commitment to promoting effective multilateralism.
This has to do with the Commission’s contribution to the EU’s international relations.
In our view, a lively debate about the relationship between the EU and Russia is inevitable, as well as a discussion about the neighbours we have in common, which should touch on Russia, Moldova, the Caucasus and Ukraine.
I should like to end with a remark in connection with the new neighbours.
I therefore want the guidelines to send out a clear political signal worthy of the unique situation in which Europe finds itself.
The Baltic must become the world’s cleanest sea, meaning that there must be an end to the emissions from Saint Petersburg.
The crisis in Ukraine has revealed the weaknesses in our neighbourhood policy.
The EU must also tighten up its strategy and be consistent in its policy towards the countries of the Caucasus, Moldova and Russia.
These are precisely the issues also touched upon by Mr&#160;Wiersma.
On this point, I would like to mention two actual examples.
The first example is a proposal for a directive, the so-called Bolkestein directive, which in our opinion ought to be rejected.
These are two concrete choices which demonstrate two different conceptions of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this debate is about strategic priorities.
I want to say in response to previous remarks – it is a pity that some speakers have already left – that the Commissioner's support for the Internal Market Services Directive is very welcome because it is a fundamental part of completing the internal market.
I am afraid to say that some of my colleagues are still living in the past and calling it the 'Bolkestein Directive'.
On the ground, businesses find many of the European directives much too complicated; in many cases there are inconsistencies between them.
You promised a sort of Euclidean political organisational work where parallel values do not cross over and extinguish each other, although it is a great challenge.
Let me refer to two examples that have been brought up several times during today’s debate.
It must be emphasised again and again that social acceptance represents European solidarity only if it is able to cross state boundaries and is able to create solidarity within all of the united Europe, as well as between states, in order to help weak and vulnerable countries to rise and catch up.
The second great set of tasks is to exercise the powers of freedom security as well as security justice.
Martin Schulz indicated, and I have also heard from the mouth of a high-ranking European official, that refugees to the European Union bring with them the danger of terrorism.
I hope that you reject this opinion.
Specific legal measures are called for against discrimination and I am asking you to remember your promise of personal commitment and organisational work in order for the appropriate legal measures to be taken. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the strategic planning guidelines must also cover the area of the common agricultural policy, for the Luxemburg Council decisions also apply to this area.
The forthcoming rural development has to do with the overall funding of the second pillar and hence with the maintenance of active and attractive rural areas, which cannot exist without working farmers.
The public also expect us to offer practical solutions to the thorny questions relating to immigration, asylum and security.
To do otherwise would be scarcely credible and will not bring us any closer to the peoples of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we in the Socialist Group have ambitions in the field of development cooperation and humanitarian action which we will try to include in Parliament’s recommendations to the Commission and its President.
The impetus we are calling for from the Union is enshrined in the European Constitution and it is very encouraging that here, and in other areas, the philosophy and the budgets of the Constitution are being applied even before it is ratified.
The Socialists’ main contribution to the process of European integration was to introduce solidarity as one of the fundamental pillars of our project, solidarity not just as a great moral and political value, but also as a guarantee of peace, stability and prosperity for Europe.
In these new circumstances, intra-European solidarity is no longer enough, at least for the Socialists.
We can no longer be content with a solidarity which is restricted to the territories and citizens of the Union.
Rather, that solidarity must also be the European Union’s distinguishing mark on the international stage, in particular solidarity with peoples who are combating underdevelopment, for the sake of their dignity and prosperity.
Fundamental priorities for the Commission will be to contribute to the achievement of the Millennium Development Objectives, with particular emphasis on the eradication of poverty and hunger, taking action both in the least-developed countries and in the least-favoured pockets of population in the more developed countries.
Combating AIDS and other diseases linked to poverty and underdevelopment, such as malaria and tuberculosis, must also be our priorities, as well as the promotion of women in the countries with which we cooperate with a view to ensuring their development and dialogue between civilisations, implemented by the President of the Spanish Government.
Throughout this field, the Commission will have a great responsibility in terms of promoting and coordinating its action with that of the Member States of the Union, with a view to ensuring complementarity and consistency, particularly in terms of our presence and influence in the development agencies of the United Nations.
A number of important issues have coincided; I refer to the preliminary assessment of the most recent enlargement, preparations for subsequent enlargements, including the complex debate on Turkish membership, the initial assessment of actions ensuing from the Lisbon strategy, and preparatory work for the new Financial Perspective for 2007-2013.
The new Commission will have to decide on the strategic actions it considers most important with a view to achieving the both the aims laid down in the Treaties and those thrust upon us by current circumstances in the Union and neighbouring areas.
Clearly, Member States are at different levels of economic development.
In the interests of all Members of the Union it is therefore essential to take all necessary action to reduce such differences, which will facilitate development of the Union as a whole.
For many years now, an active cohesion policy has been instrumental in the reduction of development differences, and has been accompanied by deepening economic integration and the entry of new Member States, which are rated relatively poorly in terms of development indicators.
This situation emphasises the appropriateness and validity of the provisions of the Treaties, in which it is laid down that one of the Union’s key aims is attaining social and economic cohesion.
In addition, cohesion policy is not perceived as a short-term policy in response to the current situation, but a permanent and inviolable feature of Community action.
In conclusion, and speaking also on behalf of many Members of this House, I should like to say that we are confident the new Commission will live up to expectations.
According to the Lisbon strategy, however, competitiveness cannot come about if the Member States do not start to implement decisions effectively.
A 3% ceiling is unachievable, except in two countries.
The countries that have achieved this top all the available statistics.
Since the mid-1990s, 40% of our competitiveness has been based on new technology, and in the United States the figure is 60%.
We must not overstretch ourselves by now accepting too many new Member States into the European Union; instead, we must join together with our ten new Member States in consolidating what we have achieved, for they want this and are willing to actively contribute to it.
Let me take this opportunity to put the very straightforward question – and I am glad that the Vice-President is here – as to whether it makes sense to use the REACH project to enhance the competitiveness of industries outside the European Union, while ushering in a programme of deindustrialisation at home?
Our task must be to create the favourable prospects that this young currency deserves.
In practical terms, that means that the Stability Pact must not, of course, be called into question, nor must it be subject to intelligent interpretation; instead, Europe will not be able to produce a lasting solution to the problems of a constantly ageing population and the diminishing options for the young unless all the Member States find a way out of the debt trap.
In doing that, the Stability Pact has a highly disciplinary effect; it must not be abandoned, but defended. &#160;&#160; – Mr President of the Commission, the programme which the Commission will present for the next five years must have as its basic objective sustainable development, full employment and economic and social cohesion.
The Commission's stand on the question of the financial perspectives must be firmly based on the Prodi proposals and we expect a commitment from you here.
The policy on the competitiveness of the European economy has as its precondition the simultaneous strengthening of cohesion, solidarity and social Europe.
We expect specific commitments and specific proposals from the European Commission in this direction when it presents its programme next January. &#160;&#160; Mr President, at the start of this debate Mr&#160;Poettering referred to a resolution from the PPE-DE Group.
Its priority is your priority: to make Europe more competitive and prosperous.
It recognises that this can only be done by economic reform and, as part of the reform programme, it calls upon the Commission to offer stronger leadership to make labour markets more flexible.
This does not mean that the Commission should lead only individual Member States towards the promised land, it should also lead each individual Commissioner.
For example, in the area of my particular interest, employment and social affairs, I waited in vain for the Commission to act as a college and for Mr Prodi to highlight the way that certain social directives were hampering competitiveness and holding back employment.
However, this seemed to be a no-go area for the Commission as a whole, as if to say that, if it dared to challenge proposed social legislation, this might signify that it did not care about social justice and social cohesion.
We all believe intensely in the importance of social justice and social cohesion, but the greatest social injustice is unemployment: one of the greatest sources of social exclusion is unemployment.
Mr Schulz talked earlier of workers' rights, and of course these are important, but we must also pay attention to non-workers' rights, the rights of those who are willing and eager to work but have no job.
That is why the Commission as a whole must have the courage to revisit and rebalance the social agenda and to promote employment as a priority, with flexibility in labour markets as the guiding star.
The changes have come about because of the accession of ten new Member States and because of the new eastern border.
You must therefore stand firm against the selfish attitudes of net contributors and of those Member States no longer eligible for cohesion funding following their economic success.
The new Constitution requires greater political solidarity, and it is impossible to ensure credible consolidation of the Union on the basis of this new Constitution whilst simultaneously refusing or indeed reducing economic solidarity.
The Union is a community of values, and we ought to be delighted that these values are spreading beyond our borders.
We should be exporting democracy and human rights.
New challenges call for new approaches.
The European Union has to be the Europe of freedom, and freedom only exists in a healthy economic environment, where there is real and effective security.
We need a competitive economy to meet the challenges of growth and full employment within a context of globalisation, the benefits of which we must learn how to harness.
The challenge we face is that of achieving an economy that makes use of natural resources in a balanced way and that is efficient because it is modern, and not because it accepts any breach of the commitments on which the essence of its social model is based.
In addition, we need security.
Europe also needs to share with our traditional allies an international policy that promotes democracy and peace in our neighbouring countries and which contributes to a safer and more developed world.
We are also witnessing a constant increase in the number of States participating in the multilateral cooperation system.
These are both good reasons for adjusting the rules and disciplines of the WTO, for further opening the markets in goods and services and for forging a stronger link between international trade and development.
My proposal concerns the fields of economic and political cooperation between the financial markets and international development cooperation on the basis of a standard for a new, international, social and ecological market economy.
Today's world needs a new, cohesive global economic order, a new system of mutually supportive institutional and operational arrangements.
Together with Mr Kok, we would urge you to be more focused and to coordinate the Lisbon process more effectively, as regards both the internal objectives and others, including the guidelines for employment, the global economic guidelines and the macro-economic dialogue.
We would therefore ask you, Mr President of the Commission, to table concrete proposals in order to bring pressure to bear on the Member States and their regions, so that they can do their share of the work in the areas of education, training, and investments in scientific research, but also in structural reforms.
Possible aids could be national Lisbon plans, a number of structural indicators, involving national parliaments in monitoring and assessing the process and certainly also a classification of the Member States according to performance.
Mr President, you have an arduous task, all the more so because the Constitution has not yet been approved and the financial perspectives are as yet unknown.
We are, in fact, asking you to serve up a menu without having a kitchen to prepare it and without knowing what budget is available.
If, in January, you propose solid policy and dish up a consistent meal, you will have a lasting ally in the PPE-DE Group. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to each and every one of you most attentively.
First, I note that the great majority of speakers agree with the need to define priorities that correspond to the public’s expectations and think it important that the European Union and its institutions should respond to the primary concerns of European citizens.
Secondly, the great majority of speakers identified three basic areas for action: the area we can call Lisbon, the Lisbon strategy (economic reform with a social and environmental dimension); the areas connected with security and justice; and Europe’s role in the world.
Thirdly, I also see that there is broad consensus on the need for a proactive cohesion policy, a true solidarity policy in Europe.
Accordingly, I feel that we can conclude that there is consensus regarding Europe’s need for growth and employment.
I am pleased to say that I do not believe that concerns for economic efficiency and concerns for social justice are mutually incompatible.
These objectives – greater competitiveness alongside sustainable development and social concern – cannot in any way be incompatible.
These are objectives that define one of our priorities.
I therefore believe we must work towards achieving the broadest possible consensus, but a dynamic consensus and one that is not the result of cancelling out opposing points of view, because we also have to recognise that there are some contradictory priorities here in Parliament.
We have signed the treaties and have ten new Member States among us, but we have to do all we can so that we can soon stop talking about old and new Member States and become a real Union, and for that we need an active cohesion policy.
European diversity is what truly defines our identity and, if we want to define identity, we must define it in terms of the values enshrined in the European Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, that is, respect for the dignity of the human being, for human rights, for justice, for the rule of law and for the principles of freedom and equality.
These are the values that define our identity.
Respect for the principle of non-discrimination and tolerance towards anyone who comes in through our borders.
It is therefore on the basis of these values that we can promote the idea of Europe around the world.
We are looking after our interests with a more ambitious neighbourhood policy: a policy for our Eastern or Mediterranean neighbours that promotes stability and peace, as we have been doing in Ukraine, for example.
The signals that the European Union has sent out during the current crisis in Ukraine have been highly positive.
Without any competition for the limelight, we have had the Council Presidency, the European Council, the European Commission and some Member States all involved in seeking a peaceful, democratic solution for Ukraine.
I should like to finish, ladies and gentlemen, by assuring you that the Commission will seek to take account of Parliament’s positions, so as to incorporate those positions into what we hope will be a strategic vision not just for one institution or another, but a strategic vision for all European institutions and for the European Union as a whole throughout the next five years. &#160;&#160; At the conclusion of this debate, I have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure.(1) The vote will take place on Thursday.
It is a great honour and pleasure for me to welcome the winners of the Sakharov Prize 2004, a prize which the European Parliament is awarding to the Association of Journalists of Belarus, headed by its President, Mrs Zhanna Litvina.
I would like to welcome you in your language: , Mrs Litvina.
We wish to express our sympathy and solidarity with Mrs Zavadskaya and her family at this very difficult time.
In 2004, more than 50 journalists have been murdered throughout the world, together with 14 media assistants.
The pressure from the authorities on the independent media has increased considerably.
Freedom is what society has the right to do and know and what the State does not have the right to hinder.
Within Belarus's dictatorial system, the result of elections not recognised by the international community, access to information not filtered by the authorities involves risk, and the Association of Journalists of Belarus and its one thousand members, being awarded this prize today, run that risk every day.
But the authorities continue to pursue you and, nevertheless, you continue to try to keep the public aware of the right to freedom of expression and the need to exercise it.
Madam President, I would like to inform you that we in the European Parliament have decided that our Delegation for Relations with Belarus will not maintain relations with the authorities of the regime, and will only maintain them and promote them with the NGOs and with civil society.
We are all saddened and frustrated to note that, 15 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, vestiges of that artificial division of Europe still remain.
We are frustrated to know that in Belarus the death penalty is still in force, and it is the only country in this continent which still applies it.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that our Parliament usually stays in contact with previous winners of the Sakharov prize and that this month it will be 14 years since we awarded this prize to Aung San Suu Kyi, who is still under arrest in Myanmar, and whose immediate release we continue to demand.
The fact that we are receiving this prize as an organisation is a sign of solidarity and support for the entire Belarusian democratic movement and support for the political forces that will finally ensure that in future there will be a link between Belarus and the European Union.
The fact that this prize was initially put forward for two Belarusian organisations – the second organisation was the youth organisation ZUBR – is probably a sign that Belarus is the focus of international attention and that my country, which one of my colleagues has described as a chess piece which has fallen off the chess board, will once again become an independent entity in European politics and will one day take a worthy place among the other nations around the European table.
The prize is such an important signal for us because we understand our problems, but they are not just a matter of upholding our own professional principles.
It is also about defending the rights of all our citizens to receive objective, uncensored information.
Unfortunately, the Belarusian authorities have managed to create a closed society built on isolation and disdain for democratic values.
Despite our constitutional provisions, there is only one obligatory ideology that prevails in Belarus now.
There is total intolerance of criticism and we are not allowed to object or express our views.
Two years ago, Paval Mazheika, a young journalist, was given a prison sentence under the criminal code.
Again, two weeks ago, a very well-known person, Garry Pahaniayla, Vice-President of the Belarus Helsinki Committee, was also sentenced for slander against the state.
We are very concerned that, despite the conclusions reached in the report on the disappearances of Belarusian politicians and journalists by Christos Pourgurides, a Council of Europe special rapporteur, and despite the international community's close attention to this subject, it seems that the Belarusian authorities are still not interested in a full in-depth investigation of these disappearances or in publishing such an investigation.
We still do not know what happened to Dmitry Zavadsky, who disappeared four years ago.
He is a journalist and a member of our organisation and the authorities have never told us what happened to him.
His wife, Svetlana Zavadskaya, is on our delegation.
At the beginning of this year, in the last campaign for parliamentary elections and the referendum, we saw for the first time the summary closure of newspapers at the behest of the Ministry of Information.
There were 19 cases of suspension of the activities of independent media outlets.
The distribution of alternative, accurate information to citizens is one of the major problems facing our society.
If a publication criticises the authorities, this automatically leads to problems with the printing houses.
The independent press, which still appears in Belarus, is virtually the only institution which exercises any scrutiny over the state and it is the only source of free information to citizens.
All these are partner organisations that are helping us, and our strength lies in this partnership and cooperation.
Recently, at international level, many politicians from eastern European countries have expressed their concerns about the situation in Belarus and are prepared to work towards formulating a strategy towards Belarus at European level.
We have a comprehensive programme which we feel will help to unlock the situation in our country.
We need support for what is legal and what is still working in Belarus.
Basically, what I am referring to is the independent press and the non-governmental organisations that are still operating in our country.
What is also very important for us is the effect of the strengthened presence of the European Union in Belarus – something that we would encourage.
We feel it is very important that our people should receive a message from the European Union.
Its value would be that our return to Europe depends on us, the Belarusian people.
In fact there are ten million people in our country and at least half of those associate the future of our country with a return to Europe.
I should like to take this opportunity to urge the Members of the European Parliament – especially the members of the delegation to Belarus – to support our proposals with regard to staging hearings on the media situation in Belarus.
Such hearings might lead to recommendations on bringing our legislation into line with European standards and would help us to demonopolise the mass media.
Even after painstaking investigations, it has not been possible to determine who removed them and where they are now.
All this report does is to permit the 10 new Member States to take advantage of an experimental scheme for applying reduced rates of VAT to labour-intensive services, which 9 of the previous 15 had been doing since 1999.
I regret to say that my own Member State, the UK, is one of those which has 'reservations' about this; and some members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs feared that perhaps the UK or others might torpedo this report.
I hope that this vote today will encourage the Council to ensure fairness across all 25 Member States for the remaining time of the current experiment; and I also say, with the full support of the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Mrs Berès, that we should be pressing the Council to make this a permanent feature of our hopes of achieving the Lisbon Strategy.
I consider that the European Economic and Social Committee should be consulted in view of the strategic importance of the common agricultural policy reforms in 2003 and 2004.
Since it has been concluded that the main target of policy reform in the new financial period should be rural development, it must also be underlined that more than half of the EU-25 population lives in rural areas, which cover 90% of our territory.
Rural development is therefore an important political area, a fact that was reiterated in the conclusions of the Lisbon (March 2000) and Gothenburg (June 2001) European Councils.
I consider that one of the fundamental instruments behind the solidarity that defines the European Union is its cohesion policy – a policy that must be ambitious and able to address the challenges of the latest enlargement and the new prospects for economic growth in Europe.
Consultation of the Committee of the Regions is essential in view of the strategic importance of these funds.
The Union’s cohesion policy makes an important contribution towards achieving its growth and cohesion objectives because, by reducing economic and social disparities, the Union is helping to ensure that all regions and social groups can contribute. &#160;&#160; .– I voted for the request for consultation of the Committee of the Regions – ERDF on the proposal for a Council regulation on the European Regional Development Fund.
Regional disparities within the EU have become worse since the recent enlargement, because there has been a huge increase in the number of underdeveloped regions.
I consider the harmonious development of the various regions of Europe to be a constant challenge to which we must respond with clear objectives and firm political decisions.
The development of the Community’s territory, which has increased with enlargement, requires greater territorial cooperation, based on joint local development projects within the context of cross-border cooperation and on measures leading to integrated territorial development, for which we need the participation of all the regional players. &#160;&#160; .– I voted for the request for consultation of the Committee of the Regions – Cohesion Fund on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a Cohesion Fund.
The contribution that the Committee of the Regions can make to the Cohesion Fund review process is indispensable, since this is the fund that will help to finance projects in the fields of the environment and trans-European networks on the subject of transport infrastructure.
I believe that this review should retain the basic principles that define this policy and base itself on a global balance between strengthening the strategic dimension on the one hand and simplifying the implementation system on the other, without thereby creating a situation that reduces solidarity among the Member States, which is both a principle and a characteristic of this Union of States. &#160;&#160; .– I voted for the request for consultation of the Committee of the Regions – European grouping of cross-border cooperation (EGCC) on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a European grouping of cross-border cooperation (EGCC).
In view of the serious difficulties encountered by the Member States, regions and local authorities in carrying out and managing cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation measures in a context of different national laws and procedures, it is essential to adopt adequate measures at Community level to alleviate such difficulties.
The harmonious development of the Community as a whole and the strengthening of economic, social and territorial cohesion require a strengthening of cross-border cooperation and the adoption of measures providing for the removal of obstacles that hinder cross-border cooperation. &#160;&#160; .– The full, harmonious integration of the ten new Member States requires the adaptation of all protocols previously confined to the 15 Member States, and it also requires that this adaptation should take place as soon as possible. &#160;&#160; .– This proposal is the result of the authorisation granted by the Council of the European Union to the European Commission on 26&#160;January 2004 to undertake and conclude negotiations with Mexico, with a view to the conclusion of an Additional Protocol to the Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the United Mexican States, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the new Member States to the European Union.
The accession of the above-mentioned new Member States in fact requires a series of legal adaptations so as to place them on an equal footing in the customs, economic and competition fields.
I voted for the proposal. &#160;&#160; .– The full, harmonious integration of the ten new Member States requires the adaptation of all protocols previously confined to the 15 Member States, and it also requires that this adaptation should take place as soon as possible. &#160;&#160; .– This proposal is the result of the authorisation granted by the Council of the European Union to the European Commission on 23 February 2004 to undertake and conclude negotiations with the Republic of San Marino, with a view to the conclusion of a Protocol to the Agreement on Cooperation and Customs Union between the European Economic Community and the Republic of San Marino, regarding the participation, as contracting parties, of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic, pursuant to their accession to the European Union.
The accession of these new Member States in fact requires a series of legal adaptations so as to place them on an equal footing in the customs, economic and competition fields.
I have voted for the proposal. &#160;&#160; .– I voted for the proposal for a Council directive because I believe it has already been afforded sufficient unequivocal scrutiny and appreciation in the Committee on Agriculture, where it gained well-deserved, unanimous approval.
In fact, in the case in point, I believe that the change made to Directive 87/328/EEC can only be understood in the light of an excessively positivist interpretation of Community law, since the storage of frozen semen of bovine animals that is provided for at ‘semen collection centres’ (with own production) could, by recourse to ordinary rules of legal interpretation, include the ‘semen storage centres’ (without own production) without any formal correction being necessary.
It may sound trivial, but sometimes even the ridiculous can be treated seriously, or something serious can seem ridiculous. &#160;&#160; .– I welcome the proposal to amend the Council regulation on support for rural development from the EAGGF ‘in order to prevent any difference in treatment between the Member States’ that made up the European Union before enlargement and the current 25 countries.
That means the continuation of a policy whereby support for rural development is used as part of a strategy to contain common agricultural policy costs, to liberalise agricultural markets and to negotiate with the World Trade Organisation.
Such measures, however, do not address the need to correct the profound injustices present in the European Union’s agricultural policy and do not help the necessary and urgent drive for economic and social cohesion between its various Member States.
The effective promotion of rural development requires farmers, agricultural production and a model of sustainable human development based on the enhancement of economic, social and cultural specificities and diversities. &#160;&#160; The June List’s three members voted against the report, since it is an integral part of the provisions for the common agricultural policy, which we wish to abolish.
The common agricultural policy basically needs to be reformed, and the debate on its reform must begin without delay.
As a rule, the members of the June List cannot therefore vote in favour of the various reports within the agricultural sphere that are presented to the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; . – We consider it right in principle that the level of participation in programmes supporting rural development by countries which acceded to the EU on 1 May 2004 should be balanced with that of the existing Member States.
The above deliberate 'ambiguities' are rooted in the fact that the misleading statements about 'supporting agriculture' hide an effort, via specific programmes, to structurally adapt Community agriculture to the demands of the CAP, the WTO and the multinationals and monopolies and to redistribute resources between the first and second pillar in order to conceal and mitigate the consequences and prevent social outcry, given that the aim of 'differentiating economic activities in the countryside' means in practice a drastic reduction in paramount agricultural activity and the search for 'analgesics' for farmers in the new and old Member States whose holdings are wiped out.
What is ultimately important is not the size of the appropriations and the number of programmes, but their orientation, which is acutely anti-farming and hostile to any real rural development. &#160;&#160; .– Since this proposal concerns an amendment to the regulation in order to prevent any difference in treatment between the old Member States and those that acceded during this year’s enlargement, and since there is no budgetary change resulting from that amendment, I am in favour of it. &#160;&#160; .– I recognise that the Member States that joined the Community on 1 May 2004 deserve at least the same treatment from its institutions as that granted to the older Member States.
I therefore voted for the proposed amendment, since it aims at preventing a situation of inequality from arising as regards the limit of the financial contributions to be made under Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999, in that it is preferable to apply the third indent of the second subparagraph of Article 47(2) to the new Member States. &#160;&#160; .– This is an administrative issue but one that is correct in terms of accounting practice since it puts right a situation that was justified before Austria joined the Union but no longer makes sense.
Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003, however, which introduced direct payments for the dairy sector, left the administration of the individual reference quantities of the producers in question to the German authorities.
I voted for the proposal. &#160;&#160; .– I voted for the report because I believe it is essential that our legal instruments should be amended following the Council decision of June 2004, so that the process may take its course and achieve all its objectives, which will only be possible – and truly effective – with the amendments suggested here by the Council. &#160;&#160; .– Perhaps because I am a citizen of a Member State that has benefited and still benefits from financial instruments that promote development and cohesion within Europe and because I can see the real improvements that they have brought to my country, I believe I am in a position to understand the crucial importance of access to those instruments by the new Member States and also by candidate countries, as is the case with Croatia.
As we know, relations between the EU and Switzerland have grown closer over the course of the years, at economic, social and political levels.
The plan here is for those relations to extend into the area of statistical cooperation.
Switzerland was actually a party to the agreement on the European Economic Area – an agreement that covered statistical cooperation – but was unable to ratify it, because of a ‘no’ vote in a national referendum on the issue in 1992.
Accordingly, following various bilateral agreements, some of which were more formal than others, it is time to draw a definitive line under the 1992 reverse, and definitively to conclude the negotiations mandated in 2000, thereby establishing a complete framework for cooperation with Switzerland extended to the area of statistics. &#160;&#160; The purpose of the regulation with which the report is concerned is to employ support measures to improve social conditions, employment and the completion of a free-trade area for the area of Europe and the Mediterranean.
It is up to each Member State to decide upon support measures in the form of aid and investments, without making a detour via the EU budget.
Simplifying and clarifying Community legislation are important ways to bring the institutions closer to the citizens.
These products come from third countries, and a reduction in their supply might have serious effects on the European Community’s economic activity.
Against this backdrop, the proposal before us seeks to help European citizens to be aware of and to understand the rules and, more importantly, seeks to create the necessary conditions to solve any potential shortage of this vital energy source.
I therefore voted in favour. &#160;&#160; We believe it is those countries situated around the Baltic Sea that must deal with the issue of the future management of fishing resources in the Baltic.
The issue of managing the world’s fishing resources must be dealt with partly via the United Nations and, in the case of the Baltic, between the Baltic countries.
The proposal seeks to reshape the nature of the relationship between the EU and third countries that are party to agreements concluded on the above-mentioned sea areas, following the recent accession to the EU of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland.
I support the rapporteur in that I welcome this proposal and, at the same time, I understand the concerns that the objectives of protecting... &#160;&#160; We believe that the European Convention should be granted discharge for 2003, because there are no reasons for bringing the economic report into question.
The Convention cannot therefore claim to represent the citizens of Europe.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; The members of the June List have chosen to vote against the report because the Committee on Budgets’ proposed changes open the way to further EU commitments, without any requirement for coordination with other international financial institutions.
According to the June List, the proposal is not in the Community’s interest but is in danger of becoming an expensive failure if loan guarantees are given without being tested by the market in the usual way.
The EU’s external policy is, in this case, expressed through a ‘Neighbourhood Policy’, which will enable those countries to continue on the path to economic, social and political development.
The rapporteur points out, and I quote, that ‘negotiations of readmission agreements are moving forward with difficulty, in particular because of the problems the European Union has in offering anything in exchange for the agreements’.
Hence our vote against. &#160;&#160; The readmission agreement with Sri Lanka is part and parcel of the introduction of a common immigration policy.
On the subject of the management of migratory flows, based on the Amsterdam Treaty, the Tampere Summit called for ‘assistance to countries of origin and transit to be developed in order to promote voluntary return as well as to help the authorities of those countries to strengthen their ability to combat effectively trafficking in human beings and to cope with their readmission obligations towards the Union and the Member States’ (IV.26.).
The purpose of this recasting of the Directive is to make it possible for the new Member States, following enlargement, to apply it, and this is something that we welcome.
Whilst the Commission’s assessment report says that the effects of this measure are negligible and that the cost/benefit ratio is unfavourable, the Commission’s main objective revolves around the difficulty of harmonising VAT, although it does state that this measure does not prejudice the rules of the internal market.
The experiment was eventually the subject of an assessment report that revealed that it is not possible to establish a direct correlation between reducing VAT rates and combating unemployment and the parallel economy.
The PEACE projects have contributed greatly to promoting mutual understanding and better community relations and I am delighted that funding has now been extended to the end of 2006.
There is not doubt that our hopes for a peaceful future depend on the good work of the various cross-border and North-South initiatives funded under this programme. &#160;&#160; We have voted against this report.
This fund still has major importance in rebuilding areas devastated by the instability caused by decades of terrorism.
The process of consolidating peace in Northern Ireland and in the Irish border region is now, once again, encircled by threats and uncertainty.
Against this backdrop, the promotion of peace through economic and social development in the regions of both parts of Ireland takes on extra significance.
It is a process that, at grassroots level, has been carried out in exemplary fashion by the International Fund for Ireland.
I therefore feel that the Commission should adopt the proposal for a Council regulation concerning Community financial contributions to the International Fund for Ireland.
Consequently, the decision to waive the parliamentary immunity of a Member of this House must be greeted with due caution.
The case before us concerns the judicial process relating to behaviour that bears no relation to political activity.
As we have said before, the key question here is the purpose of such an instrument; will it serve to regenerate a country’s human resources or will it merely help the most economically developed countries to exploit other countries’ human resources, by increasing workers’ ‘mobility’?
We fear, and with good reason, that it will serve to raise the number of technical or scientific staff emigrating to the most economically developed countries, and that, to this end, the aim is to create a European labour market, or even a European ‘stock exchange’ of specialised staff.
Let me state, once again, that the proposed documents already exist as a result of cooperation with the Council and/or UNESCO.
I congratulate Mrs Novak on her excellent work on the establishment of a single Community framework for the transparency of qualifications and competences – Europass.
The aim of this proposal is to create a uniform ‘portfolio’ of documents that will enable citizens applying for a job or a course of study to set out their personal qualifications in a manner that is comparable throughout the EU.
Europass will facilitate professional mobility and encourage learning in Europe, and this will help achieve the objectives of the Lisbon strategy.
In addition to making qualifications and skills comparable, the proposal before us also helps to achieve the Lisbon 2000 objectives, to turn Europe into the ‘most dynamic and competitive area in the world’ by 2010.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; . – The Europass is yet another lever to replace systematic and integrated education with fragmented skills and outdated training adapted to current market demands, in the aim of exploiting workers and in full harmonisation with the Lisbon strategy.
The annual budgetary procedure is a perfect example of how interinstitutional cooperation should be.
The best conclusion for this 2005 draft budget would be for the three institutions to be moderately satisfied with the final result.
It would be ridiculous to present this agreement as a victory for one institution over another, because I believe that Europe is made up of the three institutions.
We began with a reduction in the ceilings for categories 3, 4 and 5, which has made it very difficult to comply with this Parliament’s priorities.
The Member States have applied budgetary rigour, as a consequence of the Stability Pact, and that must continue in the future.
Ladies and gentlemen, since September of this year, I have been advocating the following budgetary strategy: to defend the European Parliament’s priorities with regard to the Lisbon objectives, information policy and the areas of security and justice.
We defend these priorities because we are a political Parliament and we have promised our citizens a Europe with economic growth, job creation, better information on the present and the future of the Union, better control of migratory flows and greater security against crime and terrorism.
Our contribution to the creation of a genuine Community response to terrorism is this Parliament’s best possible tribute to the almost 200 Europeans murdered in Madrid on 11 March.
It was fundamental to our strategy that the European agencies should not be funded unilaterally, at the expense of Parliament’s other priorities.
We have managed to mobilise the flexibility instrument in the sum of EUR 185 million and this is a new resource, which is greater than the ceiling of the financial perspectives.
We are still concerned about the issue of payments, despite the fact that we have a statement by the three institutions on the commitment to present an amending budget in 2005 if necessary.
I hope to cooperate closely with you during 2005.
With the figures from Parliament’s first reading, there is thus a suitable margin below the ceiling for administrative expenditure.
To this, we can add that certain institutions have been able to expedite their payments this year and have thus brought about the possibility of savings on the 2005 budget.
We are not therefore voting on these savings at Parliament’s second reading but, by making savings by means of a second amending budget, we are also making savings on the Council’s and Parliament’s budgets, which have of course been drawn up in the light of the conciliation entered into with the Council at first reading.
That is also why I think it important that, early next year – and before 1 April – we obtain an updated report from the secretaries-general on how the appointments are going.
We have seen the delays there have been in recruiting staff following enlargement, and I think it important that we closely follow up how these matters are proceeding so that we might see if there are likely to be problems.
In other areas, too, there is a real need for the institutions to cooperate in their deliberations.
One practical example is the Committee of the Regions’ desire to be able to use Parliament’s meeting rooms in Brussels for its meetings.
That is a decision that Parliament’s leadership must make.
It must be a decision that fits in with our work, but also one that is remunerative.
Parliament’s budget stands at 20% of administrative expenditure and appears reasonable in relation to needs.
This will also happen in the current year when more than EUR&#160;130&#160;million will be paid out on the two new buildings – D4 and D5 – in Brussels.
The 2005 budget appropriates EUR&#160;17.5 million to an increase in MEPs’ remuneration for the purpose of appointing staff.
MEPs are experiencing an increasing burden of work as a result not only of the increasing legislative work but also of enlargement.
Finally, I should like to say thank you for your constructive cooperation on this budget procedure.
I would particularly thank Mrs&#160;Grybauskaite, our Commissioner, who was very active in bringing about a compromise on the budget.
Let me say, Mr President-in-Office, in retrospect, how good it is that at that time, in 1999, Parliament secured this flexibility instrument following laborious negotiations, for it has been very much to the benefit of the Council’s priorities when implementing past years’ Budgets.
Before this flexibility instrument is made use of, there does of course have to be a motion to that effect, and there has to be examination of whether new unforeseen measures are to be funded within a heading or, where this is impossible, by shifts between one heading and another, which is to be followed by discussion of whether the flexibility instrument is to be applied.
We go through this procedure almost every year, and what we have actually learned from the experience is that the interpretation put on this flexibility has sometimes placed it under some considerable strain.
I would draw attention to this year’s result, which is that we have EUR&#160;185 million at our disposal, EUR&#160;45 million for the Peace II programme, EUR&#160;40 million for the agencies – which are obviously among the Council’s really important priorities and are always threatening to displace important programmes in heading III, which yield added value for Europe – and EUR 100 million for the reconstruction of Iraq.
Let me take this opportunity to say that we are talking here, overall, in terms of payments from the 2005 Budget of EUR&#160;106.3 billion and EUR&#160;200 million allowed for flexibility.
As you know, the Council had not initially foreseen the use of the flexibility instrument.
In our global compromise the Council had to accept its use for a substantial amount – EUR 185 million – and this was not greeted with enthusiasm by all Member States.
Parliament made it clear from the start that it would not be able to finance its traditional priorities and its new priorities in Headings 3 and 4, Internal and External Policies, under the existing ceilings.
With the agreements on the use of the flexibility instrument in Heading 3, Parliament is in the position to restore the funding for the agencies.
At the same time Parliament has secured sufficient funding for its priorities.
I am pleased that we were able to agree on the financing of the Peace II programme for 2005-06.
The Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Lewandowski; the budget rapporteur, Mr Garriga Polledo; Mrs Jensen, the rapporteur on the flexibility instrument; Mr Böge, and other members of the Committee on Budgets who participated very closely in all-day and all-night negotiations deserve thanks from all of us for the hard-won results.
According to updated estimates from the Committee on Agriculture, for example, some expenditure was ignored by the Council: extra calls for payments for the structural funds or actions during the year could be necessary.
But I am satisfied that we agreed a joint declaration on payment appropriations for structural actions that can allow a rapid single-reading decision on a possible amending budget for extra payments if the Commission identifies the need in mid-2005.
I call on both budgetary authorities to react quickly if there appears to be a need to propose this.
We also want to emphasise that, as mentioned before, for the first time the flexibility instrument is being used above the ceilings in three headings and we agreed to use the total amount of EUR 185 million for this instrument.
I am not going to emphasise the details of the overall package, which has been very well described, or the main agreements we reached.
I would like to draw attention to what is important for us and is always important for Parliament, namely improving delivery.
The Commission's letter on implementability has the same intent.
Parliament is concerned about the way non-state actors and international organisations are using European Union funds.
You have maintained a reserve for the financing of 50 new posts from the several hundred requested.
I hope to introduce a transfer request in January to lift the reserve on these posts, since I believe the conditions have been fulfilled.
You ask for the rules to be changed on the financial regulation.
I congratulate you all on the great success that you have achieved.
We have also proposed measures to strengthen the ways in which all Europeans show solidarity with the victims of terrorist acts.
Of the other priorities, I should like once again to highlight two of them, which are in our view of particular significance.
We propose, Commissioner, to hold in reserve the bulk of the appropriations requested on passengers’ rights.
If we vote for the proposed amendment, the appropriations will remain frozen for as long as the Commission fails to propose an active rather than passive system for the transmission of data, as it has undertaken to do several times and as Parliament has asked it to do.
Secondly, and I particularly address these remarks to the President-in-Office of the Council, we propose to hold in reserve all of the appropriations earmarked for the External Borders Agency.
We ask the Council to establish such headquarters urgently and preferably before the end of this year.
Our negotiations, Mr President-in-Office, have of course left an aftertaste, and about that I would like to speak in very plain terms.
We have to draw up a tight budget, and we have to be responsible in our handling of the money that the public have paid in tax, but the question forming itself in my mind is whether it is one of the tasks of the annual Budget procedure to put forward ever more recondite proposals for a Budget when you know already that there will be a supplementary Budget next year?
Secondly, I ask you to try to rein in your fellow ministers in the foreign affairs departments and in all the other specialisms.
Almost EUR&#160;5 billion separates us from the upper limit of Agenda 2000 – in the wrong direction!
That is not only what I ask for, but also the lesson that I have learned from these negotiations.
Once again, I wish to express how baffled I am at the method used for producing the budget and especially, for this second reading, at the manner in which our dialogue was held with the Council during November.
It is true that we have reached an agreement and achieved results, but did it really need twelve hours to arrive at what should have been achievable by means of real methods of dialogue rather than a set of people who did real damage to the content of the budget?
Setting payment appropriations in stone while moving away from commitment appropriations is a usual strategy of the Council, but this is a strange course of action at a time when everyone – whether in the private sector or the public sector – is being asked to ensure transparency, reliability and truth when reading the budget figures.
This situation enabled us to release the investments that we wanted in the very short term and my colleagues will speak to you about this.
We also hope – and I am addressing the Commission at this point – that we shall see very good budget implementation this year, especially in the field of information and communication with the citizens.
The adoption of the other institutions’ budgets, which took place without any problems, leads me simply to say that we must review our expenditure here because, by imposing severe restrictions on our expenditure, we have ended up imposing limitations on ourselves and denied ourselves resources for working and exercising our power and our privileges with respect to the other institutions.
In conclusion, I should like simply to say that this budget will certainly be implemented without any great problem in&#160;2005, but that it is a transitional budget, which does not provide any real means of ensuring continuity and this is what is worrying us greatly.
Nonetheless, I think that Mr Pittella will be able to take up the gauntlet even though this method cannot last and might hinder us in the future from achieving budgets to match our political projects. &#160;&#160; .
I wish, likewise, to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr&#160;Lewandowski, for his sterling leadership of the committee and Commissioner Grybauskaitė and Mr&#160;Nicolaï, representing the Council, for their constructive cooperation.
The EU budget for 2005 may well meet next year’s needs, but there are question marks over it.
The poor levels of implementation of the budget in recent years have now created a backlog.
That, however, is EUR 500 billion, or more than 1% of the EU’s GDP.
This budget ceiling proposed by six Member States thus haunted the conciliation meeting.
The statement runs contrary to good budgetary policy as the budget has to include all known expenditure for the financial year.
In the budget debate, the issue of the rapid rise in the number of Agencies in the European Union was raised.
EUR 40 million from the flexibility instrument had to be spent to meet their administrative costs, or else there would have been no financing available.
We should therefore take prompt action to discover whether the Agencies are the most effective way to develop the EU’s administration.
It might be that this way we are establishing units that are hard to monitor and which are partially responsible for creating nothing more than a double layer of bureaucracy.
Another question is presented by the various associations and organisations that are granted appropriations directly out of the budget.
What I see as positive is the flexibility instrument.
I want to make that very plain to you, as I was very pleased to hear him say this and it does not often happen that Mr Ferber and I are of one mind.
The fact is that I do believe – and here I am addressing you, Mr Nicolaï – that you stated, not only in the course of our negotiations during the conciliation procedure, but also in this House today, that this House, in exactly the same way as the national governments, must be willing to decide on priorities.
My fellow MEPs have also already said that we all have a great interest in budgetary discipline and a serious approach to the Budget.
Politics risks being renationalised, and, for an enlarged Europe – for, for the first time, we are dealing with a Budget for 25 Member States – with new tasks and new challenges, that would be a mistake.
If you want to fashion a truly European policy, you have to have the political courage to make the Budget reflect that.
I do not at present see that in the position of the net contributing countries and in the obsession with 1%.
I hope that we will continue to work together with such powerful effect over the years to come in order to achieve much for Europe. &#160;&#160; .
Following the increasing pressure being exerted to reduce public expenditure at all cost in accordance with the spirit of the Stability and Growth Pact, we have already had, in 2004, the lowest budget relative to gross national revenue since 1987.
Year after year, Parliament has criticised this restrictive tendency, along with the laborious budgetary gymnastics that accompany it; such as the increasing numbers of transfers and amending budgets; the reduction in essential appropriations, such as those intended for developing countries, to be able to finance new demands, for example the contribution to financing for the reconstruction of countries severely affected by war, such as&#160;the Balkans, Afghanistan and Iraq; and the misuse of the flexibility instrument .
I propose quite simply that this should be reflected, this year, not only in words, but also in clear and visible action.
In fact, for the 2005 budget, the compromise reached by the consultations held on 25 November, namely EUR&#160;106.3 billion –&#160;in other words, not 1.05%, Mrs Guy-Quint, but 1.005% of gross national revenue&#160;– is less than the Commission’s preliminary draft, 109 billion, which was itself less than the Parliament’s request in first reading, 111 billion, a request in turn less than the commitments made by the Council, the Commission and Parliament as part of the financial perspectives jointly set in 2000, which set the budget at 114 billion.
The second reason for our decision is that next year will be the first full year of the Union of 25.
The success of this enlargement assumes, in our view, that we provide a budget sufficient to take on the unavoidable costs of interdependence associated with this great project, whilst ensuring that this does not involve abandoning regions or populations in difficulty in the old Member States.
Successful enlargement without bringing the populations of the new and old Member States into competition with one another – that is the second reason why we tabled our motion to reject a poor draft budget.
Finally, 2005 will be the decisive year in the attempt to reach agreement between the 25 on the financial perspectives for 2007-2013.
If we were to accept without a fight a 2005 budget set at 1% of gross national revenue, would we not be, in some ways, falling in line with the mindset of the Letter of the Six?
They also tell us that the EU budget is small in comparison with national budgets.
It pays for this Parliament.
As the last speaker has just said, several countries with their own budget problems want a limit of one per cent of GNI.
It would not be looking at these various projects: it would be opening its markets properly, internally and externally; it would cease killing off our businesses with thousands of ill-judged prescriptive rules, and its budget could be a small fraction of one per cent of GDP. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, work on the Union’s 2005 budget is almost at an end.
The Commission proposed a budget amounting to EUR&#160;109&#160;billion, the Council proposed a figure of EUR&#160;105&#160;billion and Parliament proposed EUR&#160;111&#160;billion.
What is much more important is that the outcome is below expectations.
I can see other Members of this House share my view.
The policy of cuts won the day, despite enlargement of the Union to take in ten new Member States.
The agreed level of expenditure may impact on the Financial Perspective for 2007-2013, and this is even more worrying.
The Union for Europe of the Nations Group’s attitude to the 2005 budget is that it is something that cannot currently be opposed, but we see no reason for rejoicing.
This is especially likely if the Lisbon strategy comes to mean giving up on economic policy, that is, achieving the highest possible quality at the lowest possible cost, to the benefit of social policy in the more developed countries.
Events concerning Mr&#160;Buttiglione and the failure to integrate Islamic communities in Western Europe, as referred to recently in , are both relevant examplesas is the question of the text of the preambleto the Constitution.
At the same time, we are continuing to debate enlargement to include Turkey, without taking any account of the fundamental issues dividing the Union from Turkey.
The response to the conflict between the theory of universal standards and particular ones has been to do away with standards of all kinds.
Those determined to go to any lengths to achieve a federal Europe without borders, lacking ideological identity and cohesion policy, are acting to the detriment of the Union.
There can only be one conclusion, namely that in future, the Union must come up with a broader ideological identity and make more resources available, so as to implement cohesion and solidarity policy effectively. &#160;&#160; (SK) Thank you.
In the second round the Council has come to us with a&#160;draft level of payments again at EUR 105.3 billion while Parliament proposes EUR 106.3 billion, which is about 5 billion less than in the first round.
It is totally obvious who is taking the lead in this game of budgetary ping-pong, but it is also clear that the budgetary procedures are still not precisely defined.
If the proposed level of payments is passed by Parliament it will represent an increase of 6.5% compared to 2004.
A&#160;couple of days ago, the European Parliament approved the annual report of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2003.
If this does not happen, the parliamentary budgetary procedure will continue to be more a&#160;test of the loyality of Members of the European Parliament to the governments of their home countries rather than a&#160;test of the effectiveness and competitiveness of the budgetary process and the use of European Union resources.
Having said that, Mr President, I would like to thank you for your courtesy and congratulate the general rapporteur for the budget, Mr Garriga Polledo, on the excellent work he has done and also on the way he has handled the negotiations with the Council and the Commission.
With regard to heading 4, we have faced the problems that traditionally arise in that chapter, this year with the EUR 200 million for Iraq, as the President-in-Office of the Council has pointed out.
We have been able to find a satisfactory solution, but in any event, we believe that the solution proposed by the Commission would have been better because that would have saved us cuts in heading 4 in the sum of EUR 15 million.
I believe that Mr Böge’s comments are absolutely right, that is to say, we cannot take on new commitments every year at the expense of the European Union’s traditional external action priorities.
Mr President, I would also like to thank the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Development, Mr Wijkman, for his excellent cooperation and his willingness at all times to find solutions which are compatible with the priorities of his committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Commissioner luck in her duties and ask her to facilitate our work by not taking on commitments which have no budgetary support, because I believe that, by taking that approach, we will be able to cooperate more effectively in relation to the objective that inspires us all. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, difficult negotiations have concluded with a creditable result.
For this we should thank the rapporteurs, Mr Garriga Polledo and Mrs Jensen, all the political groups and the new Commissioner, who has given us valuable help and whose good wishes I gladly reciprocate.
It has been a difficult passage, but we have got through it, and have obtained funding for reconstruction in Iraq, the maintenance of traditional geographical policies, funds for SMEs, information and research as well as resources for the agencies.
Also entered in the budget are resources for the structural funds and pilot projects, some of which are very interesting, such as Erasmus for apprentices and the pilot projects on conflict prevention and on small arms reduction.
Peculiar ideas are circulating and sometimes a kind of psychological bullying is also used towards the new Member States to make them maintain the so-called rigorous line.
Article 158 of the Treaty affirms that economic and social cohesion policy is one of Europe’s main tasks.
I am sure that both rapporteurs have done their very best, but, despite that, my group is proposing the budget be rejected for the reasons of policy that our Chairman, Francis Wurtz, mentioned at the start of the sitting.
The problem from Parliament’s point of view is budgetary discipline, which does not recognise flexibility to any adequate extent.
Stringent budgetary discipline is supplemented by an interinstitutional agreement, which was smuggled through the European Parliament in May, 1999.
The only way to create more flexibility would have been to terminate the interinstitutional agreement that came about in such strange circumstances, but Parliament has not been prepared to do that, in spite of the fact that the inflexibility of the budget has been common knowledge.
I would, however, like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, and the rapporteurs and coordinators, for their excellent levels of cooperation, even though my group has decided to propose that the budget be rejected. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in my speech I would like to touch upon the issue of the budget allocated for the requirements of the common foreign and security policy.
Specialists are discussing possible operations in Iraq, Sudan and the Congo.
Maintaining a stable situation in the European Union’s neighbouring countries is no less important.
It is worth mentioning Georgia and the operations in the countries of the Balkan region.
Therefore, it is very clear that the trend of the activities of the European Union’s common foreign and security policy is inevitably upwards.
Seeing the amount of resources allocated for these measures in the budget for 2005, however, gives cause for concern about the discrepancy between Europe’s political ambitions and the financial resources available to fulfil these ambitions.
However, even then it is not possible to understand the tactical reasons which led Parliament’s Budgetary Control Committee to allocate EUR 10 million less at first reading for the needs of coordinating these important goals.
Unfortunately, in order to prevent this erroneous approach by the European Parliament, it was necessary to put the conciliation procedure into effect. &#160;&#160; Mr President, listen in on this debate, and you hear the cry of ‘more’, ‘more’, ‘more’ on every side.
After all, we would have the money if we were, once and for all, to tackle the huge sacred cows that lurk in the Parliamentary budget and, of course, particularly in this enormous Budget, which runs to hundreds of billions of euros.
Transparency would also mean making it plain how the political parties are now to be funded, a question to which first reading provided no unambiguous answer.
No proper budget can be drawn up in this fashion; what is needed is explanation and change. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I have learnt something very useful in the Committee on Budgets and something which has made life much easier for me, namely that it is best to begin by thanking the relevant individuals, in order to have ample time to do so.
I should therefore like to thank Mr&#160;Garriga&#160;Polledo, the rapporteur, and also Mrs&#160;Jensen.
I trust the same climate of cooperation will prevail on Thursday, when we dot the i’s on the 2005&#160;Budget.
The final version of this budget resulted from very difficult negotiations with the Council.
We appreciate the wish to cooperate and reach a compromise displayed by the Dutch Presidency, and in particular by Mr&#160;Nicolaï, and also by Commissioner Grybauskaitė, who acted as moderator during the tense hours of the meeting.
As regards the budget procedure, 2005 was a year of new beginnings.
They augur well for the success of future work on the budget. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, investment conditions in the countries of the European Union are favourable at the present time.
The European Union must therefore orientate itself towards structural reforms at all levels and in all its institutions.
This also goes for science and research, as Herr Wurtz has said today.
We all know that the main battleground for the Lisbon targets is the implementation of reforms at a&#160;national level.
I&#160;mention all of this because when we talk about the annual budgets, financial perspectives and the Lisbon Strategy, we always talk about collective pots.
I&#160;would like to thank all the members of the Budgetary Committee for their constructive approach.
We all know that the 2005 budget is a&#160;transitional budget.
With the help of these we will have a&#160;chance of making a&#160;better start on the Lisbon Strategy, which would then take on a&#160;different quality. &#160;&#160; I should like first of all to thank our rapporteur, Mr Garriga Polledo, even though he cannot be here, since it is clearly a mammoth task to examine the budget.
At the same time, however, we have also reached the end of the cycle of European budgetary modesty.
We shall no longer be talking about 1% or 1.24% of gross national revenue.
We shall then have reached the end of two political worlds.
First of all, the world of Parliament-Council relations, since, in&#160;2009, the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure will have disappeared and the anti-farming majority in this Parliament will rule against the agricultural world and the rural world.
This will at the same time be the end of a second world, which is already happening now, since, in the 2005 budget, the agricultural appropriations have been cut by a billion euro and, subsequently, these appropriations are to be plundered in order to finance other things on the pretext of rural development.
Perhaps Mr Dombrovskis will say something different. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PPE-DE Group stands for transparency and maximum appropriate use of EU budget resources.
The PPE-DE Group expresses regret that the majority of the European Parliament has rejected our group’s proposal concerning the reduction of the European Parliament’s expenditure below the traditional 20% of total administrative expenditure.
This clearly shows how well-founded the PPE-DE Group’s proposal was.
In relation to other institutions, even before the first reading the European Parliament had evaluated the additional budget requests of the EU institutions and it supported at first reading those requests, which were acknowledged to be justified.
Therefore, at second reading we principly renewed the requests for additional budget allocations by the EU institutions that the European Parliament had endorsed, but which the European Council of Ministers had rejected.
Secondly, in order to ensure more appropriate use of EU budget resources as regards the need for extra rooms, chiefly in connection with the enlargement of the EU, we invite all the EU institutions to work together and to allow their rooms to be used for the requirements of other institutions.
The European Parliament welcomes the improvements in 2004 for the acquisition of structural funds and does not understand stance in reducing expenditure appropriations for 2005.
The European Parliament considers it necessary to pay the commitments set out in the Financial Perspective in due time, and not to defer payments to the last year of the Financial Perspective. &#160;&#160; Mr President, these people have got a nerve and I am amazed they have the temerity to turn up here.
In my country, there are 2.6 million pensioners living in poverty on means-tested benefits; there are 3.6 million children below the poverty level; there are 3.9 million childless adults living in poverty; and we are a rich country!
You can put your gavel down now, Mr President, because I have finished on time. &#160;&#160; Absolutely, I also regret it because we should have liked you to continue.
Of course we are glad that, in the area of measures to combat marine pollution, which was envisaged and proposed by the Council to be a zero entry, a token entry, there are now some funds available after all, so that we can at least explain to the outside world that we now have not only the political will, but also the means, to intervene in that area.
The first is the references to agencies and to bioterrorism, and I link those two because part of the bioterrorism work is done through the new Centre for Disease Control which has now been established in Sweden.
Our citizens believe that Europe is very often engaged in spending money on activities that are less than necessary.
Therefore, I hope that in future the Commission and my colleagues in this House will ensure that agencies dealing with issues such as food safety, medicines control and evaluation and disease control and prevention are properly dealt with.
The second aspect relates to the work which lies ahead on vaccines and support for developing countries.
We know how important they are – I myself have produced a report on the health threats to the countries of the developing world.
We know that vaccination campaigns have been effective, but much more that can be done.
In the last four years some 35 million children have been vaccinated – for example against hepatitis B – but millions of children are at risk and dying because adequate funds are not available.
I very much welcome what is being done to put money into the vaccine funds, and I hope we can continue in that direction, because that, again, makes a difference of which we can be proud. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, I should like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Salvador Garriga Polledo, for the excellent cooperation.
Even though I am only moderately pleased with the end result, I do think he has done what he can in order to put the position of Parliament, but even more so the position of the European countryside, in perspective.
I feel the same way about the Dutch Presidency, and this brings me directly to my major disappointment about this Budget.
My own country represents 7% of production and only receives 2% of the money.
In any event, Parliament, and the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are keeping an eye on the British countryside. &#160;&#160; The citizens of Europe are the judges of our actions.
I believe that this budget compromise allows us to confidently look them in the eye, as it provides us with the means to reach our goals.
The current budget is not like this yet, but we should put a lot more effort into certain areas in order for our enterprises to be competitive on a worldwide scale and in order to help cohesion countries to catch up with other states sooner.
I heard reports that the Council of Ministers was at one in its stance on what the level of spending should be.
As regards the agencies, more thought needs to be given to the question of their income in the future.
I welcome the move away from in-house activity, away from the Commission and into arms-length agencies; but these have mushroomed, which is a sign of their success.
Finally, with regard to structural funding, the very sensible agreement that was reached, namely, to reduce the spend in 2005 but to have an arrangement in readiness agreed by all parties that a supplementary and amending budget could be brought in at any time, means both that we have control over what is happening in 2005 and that reasons have to be shown why we need real spend in 2006. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion for the report of the Committee on Agriculture, I regret the arbitrary cuts decided on by the Council of Ministers in spending on common agricultural policy subsidies for 2005.
I condemn the flippancy with which the Council of Ministers has adopted this decision because it jeopardises the funding of agricultural subsidies for next year, which are the consequence of a formal commitment by the Member States to the European Union's farmers.
The Council's decision leaves the management of common agricultural policy subsidies in a precarious situation, and this will oblige the Commission to apply spending discipline which could lead it to commit more than one injustice.
There has been mention of the possibility of later on introducing the amending budget to patch up the holes in the 2005 agriculture budget, although so far we do not know where those necessary resources are going to come from.
It is clear that the countries in favour of reducing the contributions to the Community budget have won the first battle, because the Council of Ministers has unanimously supported this cut.
At first reading the European Parliament re-established the European Commission's preliminary draft budget, an initiative which has been completely ignored by the Council of Ministers, the only body with decision-making powers with regard to obligatory spending.
The cut in agricultural spending for 2005 is simply a forerunner of what could happen from 2007, when the European Commission will have to present a report to assess whether or not it is necessary to introduce cuts in the unit sums of the direct aid received by European farmers.
Unfortunately, the European Parliament’s voice has not been taken into account on this occasion.
I would, therefore, like to call on this House to try to prevent this situation from recurring next year. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, just like Mr&#160;Salafranca&#160;Sánchez-Neyra, I am somewhat confused about the speaking arrangements.
I wish to congratulate Mr&#160;Garriga&#160;Polledo on his very skilful work, for his considerable sensitivity to views from the various committees and, in general, for his efficient handling of our deliberations.
By making full use of the flexibility mechanism, we have been able to avoid significantly cutting back on long-term development programmes in order to make room for Iraq.
We must protect our long-term development programmes if we are to have a chance of making a constructive contribution to the work on achieving the millennium objectives.
This is happening through the increase of EUR&#160;30&#160;million in the appropriation to efforts within Asia, where the vast majority of the world’s poor live.
Far greater resources are needed in the area of health, especially in Africa.
My first remark is in response to what Mrs Trüpel and Mr Wurtz said.
The Council was unanimously in favour of budgetary discipline.
It was also unanimously in favour of only a slight increase in payment appropriations, taking into account the needs of an enlarged Union.
This brings me to concerns expressed by Mr Ferber, Mr Wurtz and Mr Maat about the level of payment appropriations not being enough for all the needs in 2005.
The Council's second reading is based on the principle of budgetary discipline.
In our global agreement, the payment appropriations are EUR&#160;1 billion higher than the Council's estimate of what is necessary to fulfil the obligations in 2005.
According to the Commission, which has to implement the budget, the agreed maximum amount is sufficient.
Equally important is the fact that the Council will take up its responsibility if it turns out that payment appropriations are insufficient.
In conclusion, I agree with Commissioner Grybauskaitė that they were tough negotiations.
I would like to thank her, the rapporteurs and the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets for their constructive role in the negotiations.
The result is what counts, and it is a good compromise.
At the end of the day it is a win-win situation for European citizens. &#160;&#160; – I do not think that the Commission wishes to intervene again.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; –The next item is the oral question to the Commission by Mr Borrell Fontelles, on behalf of the Temporary Committee on Policy Challenges and Budgetary Means of the Enlarged Union, on the preparation of the next financial framework. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the Prodi Commission left us with two communications: one on the general framework for the 2007-2015 budget and another on the legal bases for the policies which must be funded.
The Council of Ministers has already begun working on an committee, as its representative, Mr Nicolaï, has told us, and we in the European Parliament have created a temporary committee, which it is my honour to chair, which has already produced a series of documents and within which our rapporteur, Mr Böge, is doing very considerable work on making Parliament's position coherent.
We are all, therefore, aware of the importance of this task, which must serve to establish the political priorities and define the budgetary resources available to the Union during 2007-2013.
Parliament wishes to reach an agreement within the time limit laid down in the timetable, but it wants a good agreement, and in order to achieve one, certain issues must be clarified straightaway.
It is true that you, Commissioner, have already told us in the meeting of the Temporary Committee on Policy Challenges and Budgetary Means, that the Commission headed by Mr Barroso directly accepts the proposals of the outgoing Commission.
This is the time for you, Commissioner, here in Parliament, in the absence of the President of the Commission, formally to tell us, in your opinion, the level of resources Europe needs in order to fulfil its ambitions.
It would also be good if you could explain to us which income structures you believe are most appropriate in order for the Union to be able to confront its current and future needs.
As you know, Parliament has already expressed its preference with regard to the duration of these financial perspectives.
We believe that five years is preferable since it is more in line with the duration of the terms in office of Parliament and of the Commission.
All of this must be included in the budget, because what is not in the budget does not exist, as Finance Ministers say.
The expression may be somewhat of an exaggeration, but we know that, in order for certain things to exist, they must first appear in the budgets.
Commissioner, Mr President, the Barroso Commission has been confirmed by means of a very broad vote of confidence from this House.
This is the time for you to demonstrate that you are not simply mediators between Parliament and the Council, but that you are able to show strong political leadership.
Let me add that this is without taking account of the European Development Fund, which adds another 0.03% and has, for the first time, been included in the figure of 1.14% in the Commission proposal and hence also in the Budget.
Commissioner, you described a crisis situation featuring all the things that can happen if agreement fails to be achieved.
Yes, the enlarged European Union faces new challenges and needs to meet new expectations.
We need to update the structure of our financial perspectives to better reflect these new priorities.
This entails a new classification of expenditure to give a new profile for the Union's finances.
This more limited number of expenditure headings reflects the Union's main priorities, making them more visible to European citizens and rationalising expenditure accordingly.
The proposals before us reflect the needs of the Union, firstly because these priorities identify and represent a common consensus about where Europe must intensify its actions.
Secondly, the proposed structure also offers a real step towards simplification and rationalisation, which was welcomed by Parliament in its resolution of 22 April.
Finally, the proposals have already allowed both the Council and Parliament to have substantial discussions and prepare the ground for an agreement next year.
The second question: does the new Commission endorse the duration of the financial programmes which will commit the next Commission and the next European Parliament?
Let me assure you that the Commission is fully aware of Parliament's position – which was also expressed in the resolution of 22 April – in which it calls for a financial framework to be established for a period of only five years.
However, we looked into this question and concluded that for the next programming period, seven years would be the best solution because the ceiling for market-related expenditure and direct payments – in agriculture, for example – has already been fixed by the European Council until 2013.
A seven-year timetable also maximises the benefits of long-term planning, in particular in cohesion policies.
The Commission stands by the package proposed earlier this year.
The Commission foresees the adoption of the remaining necessary proposals early next year.
The political project which underpins the financial perspectives is based on a number of well-established priorities on which a consensus already exists between the European institutions on the number of commitments already made, for example on agriculture, enlargement, Lisbon, etc.
The Commission believes that the proposals constitute a good basis for an agreement for the next financial perspective.
To reach such an agreement the Commission will be taking an active part in the discussions and negotiations that will take place with the European Parliament and the Council.
In this context, the Commission will take fully into account the key points of the discussion and will strive to reach a political agreement by the end of June 2005.
The answer is yes.
The Commission will of course take careful account of Parliament's position in relation to the initiatives already proposed and in view of those that will arrive in 2005.
The package is already based on a very broad consensus about where actions are required, in the light of European Parliament resolutions, European Council conclusions and, indeed, discussions within the Commission.
The forthcoming discussions on the Commission's strategic objectives are directly linked to this, and the Commission attaches considerable importance to the establishment of common priorities.
The Constitution will mean a codified multiannual financial framework, and I would like a common vision for the next programming period to be our first step on this path.
I would like to make two brief points in finalising the official answer to the question tabled.
We cannot have a larger European Union with less money.
We all need to sustain the momentum and actively support the efforts of the Luxembourg presidency to achieve political agreement by the end of its term.
In short, I have to say that your response does not altogether satisfy us since it amounts to saying that the new Commission is adopting the previous Commission’s proposals without examining them in detail, and that it believes that the ball is now in Parliament’s and the European Council’s courts.
We are in fact looking to the Commission to show not the passive attitude of a mediator but the leadership of a political executive strong in the confidence massively expressed by Parliament scarcely a month ago, to quote President Borrell.
It is all the more necessary and urgent that the new Commission should adopt a strong position now that initial soundings of all concerned in the Council have revealed that, for the first time, some Member States are proposing to cut the relative amount of the present budget, as Mr&#160;Böge said.
Finally, what provisional measures should be taken, and when, if, as seems highly likely, the Council fails to reach a consensus before the process of ratifying the Constitution is completed?
Alongside the tasks we have to perform in dealing with the Financial Perspective, the specialist committees and most especially the Committee on Regional Development have the task of preparing the relevant Regulations for each Fund for the new financial period of 2007 to 2013.
I see the anchoring of this cohesion and structural policy, including in our Constitution, on the basis of the Lisbon and Copenhagen conclusions, as creating very modern political approaches to the implementation of a European policy for the public’s benefit.
The Council does it by attempting to get a percentage accepted while a majority of its members want to make cuts because agriculture has already ground to a halt.
The attempt is made ever more frequently to use structural policy measures to fund other things; the example I would give is the way in which the funding of Natura 2000 is being removed from the environmental sector and moved to structural policy.
We need efficiency, but we cannot afford it to happen that drastic cuts in this area punish a large part of the population for something that we all wanted and that the European Union always has made tangible and accessible to millions of citizens.
In Germany, we have a saying to the effect that there is no smoke without fire.
Let me remind you that the European Union has always worked well when the Commission has strengthened Parliament and vice versa.
We can negotiate well together, whether the Council is on the same side or our opponent. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe were very pleased to see that the Prodi Commission attached such great importance to the Lisbon objectives when it presented its draft financial estimates.
When we in Parliament debate the financial estimates, we do not focus upon an expenditure ceiling, as some countries in the Council do.
We now have a unique opportunity to consider what we want, as well as what we want the future EU to look like between 2007 and 2013, and that is an opportunity we must not waste.
We must look at our training programmes and see whether they take account of needs in the new Member States where, for example, many students cannot afford to travel and learn new things.
I very much welcome 1.14% of the GDP for investments in the Lisbon strategy, for money for an economic incentive in the poorer regions and for reinforcing the EU’s role in the world.
Investments in renewable, sustainable energy sources are inadequate, which is detrimental to the environment and is also feeding dependency on all kinds of dubious regimes in countries where oil flows in abundance.
There is no separate fund for Natura 2000, there are insufficient resources for improving the reception of refugees in the region and the increase in funds for culture and exchange programmes for young people is too small.
We would like to promote Europe a little less and ensure that people experience Europe a little more.
Meanwhile, they have sneakily become more radical, because I noticed that they are meanwhile applying 1% in the commitment appropriations instead of in the payments, which have traditionally always been somewhat lower.
The cuts in agriculture and the structural funds are, in fact, very controversial.
Prove it in the negotiations, for that is the only way of creating a Europe that is not the old Europe of the market and of the currency, but a Europe that takes people and the environment to heart. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Union’s Financial Perspective ought to be a debate on the future of Europe.
The Union needs to decide whether it is going to promote the unification of Europe and equality of opportunity, or whether it is to create divisions and heighten inequalities.
Even if Parliament’s competences were to be increased, there will be no time to prepare our own draft budget tackling two major issues, namely how to speed up the pace of economic development and how to reduce the differences between richer and poorer regions of Europe.
The best example I could mention is the fact that the countries of the old Fifteen, which are all rich, are to receive in excess of EUR&#160;194&#160;billion from the Cohesion Fund, whilst the ten new Member States and Romania and Bulgaria are only due to receive EUR&#160;180&#160;billion.
It is also worth remembering that a significant proportion of the second sum will end up in the richer countries, in the form of order and of payments to advisers and experts.
This budget would be based on three principles.
The second is that the greater the differences in development, the more funding should go to less-developed regions and Member States.
If you do not manage to make it clear what we need all this money for, public support will certainly be denied to you, and Europe will slide even closer to the brink of disaster. &#160;&#160; The President of the European Commission made certain comments last week – and a colleague has pointed this out today – to the effect that more Europe cannot be created with less money.
In order to provide material for this debate – either endorsing it or rejecting it – I would call on the European Commission to make public in this House the information available to it on the impact on the fifteen Member States of the costs of enlargement – which, of course, is absolutely essential – because the intention to pay for the convergence requirements of our new partners at the expense of solidarity with the countries and regions of the existing States would be profoundly anti-European and harmful to our shared future.
The real debate is about the question whether we are prepared to actually pay for the political priorities included in the new European Constitution.
The first is that Europe must be a social Europe, but in most countries, private and public investments in education and research are trailing behind.
Secondly, we are not prepared to make the real switch from agricultural subsidy to rural and environmental policy for the sake of internal social cohesion and our priority, which is knowledge.
In Europe, we say in the Constitution that we want Europe to have a central role in the world.
At present, one in five people across the globe have no access to education or health care.
We talk about millennium objectives and about 2015, but what we see are, in fact, levels of spending by the EU Member States and by the EU itself that are far below par in this respect, despite resolutions by this House.
We want the Commission’s new plans and the Commission communication about development policy to be given priority in January, with broad backing from Parliament, for these millennium objectives in Heading 4: 35% for the millennium objectives and 20% for basic education and basic health care.
The fourth is that bad European leadership is at its most prominent in external policy, with major decisions, but no funding.
We want a new neighbourhood policy.
All well and good, but the money is once again taken from the budget to fight poverty in Asia and Central America.
The fifth is that we want national fraud and accountant certification bureaus in order to guarantee swift and fraud-proof implementation and subsequent approval in each country.
Sixthly and finally, the public wants to see that each country makes a fair contribution to the combined European budget according to its own capacity.
Only then will we receive the support of our European citizens for a truly serious policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Union’s new financial framework is probably the biggest issue that Parliament has to resolve this term.
The first serious disagreement among the Member States concerns the extent of financing.
The Commission’s proposal is based on the payment appropriations, which on average would amount to 1.14% of GDP.
The creation of new research programmes must be based on the premise that they will focus on projects that call for Europe-wide cooperation.
There must also be more substantial production of training courses in connection with programmes of research.
It is very important that we should agree on the future financial framework next year.
My own country, the UK – as opposed to my own nation, Scotland – is putting forward a position that is as unconstructive as it is unclear.
An objective analysis of what the UK position would mean in terms of numbers and political ramifications would be a hugely helpful contribution to the debate.
The UK contribution to the debate thus far, with its position on the UK rebate, the statistical effect, the nationalisation of structural funds and the limiting of the EU budget to one per cent of GNI is nothing less than a cumulative act of vandalism.
An objective analysis of this contribution from the Commission would be a very helpful debating tool for us in the United Kingdom. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the long-term financial perspective is an important document.
In the case of some countries, it is a question of a 50% real increase.
There should be a ceiling not only for payments, but also for commitments.
So that the national parliaments might be provided with a sound basis for their decisions, the Commission should prepare a draft alternative perspective contained within the 1% expenditure ceiling we have proposed.
What measures will the Commission take to meet this new threat and definitely ensure food safety within the European Union in future? &#160;&#160; .
In order to prevent the introduction of possibly contaminated food and feedingstuffs into the food chain, the necessary containment measures have been taken for these installations.
The adoption by the European Union of upper limits for dioxins played a primary role in the management of this case of contamination.
It is, however, of immense importance to the protection of public health that contamination be identified in the early stages through monitoring and for us to have rules which prevent and avert further contamination of the food chain.
The Commission will continue to emphasise this obligation to manufacturers and to monitor the controls carried out under the responsibility of the competent national agencies in order to safeguard compliance with current requirements.
Finally, as far as landfills are concerned, Community legislation has been adopted in order to ensure that landfills are designed and operated in a way which does not jeopardise human health or the environment. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, the necessary tools for managing risks and safeguarding public health are, on the one hand, the adoption of maximum limits for dioxins in feedingstuff substances, feedingstuffs and food at strict but feasible levels which will become stricter as time goes by and, on the other hand, the apportionment of responsibility at all stages of the food chain at which dioxins are identified.
At the same time, emphasis has been placed throughout the food chain not only on the final product of feedingstuffs, but also on the production mechanism and, for this reason, the instruments used for production will also be controlled.
The application and level of such charges are therefore matters for the national governments.
The authorities responsible for issuing permits incur costs, and each Member State is able to decide how it wants to finance those costs.
In the end, it is a political decision for each Member State to take as to whether it wants to finance administrative cuts like this through the general budget, or via direct charges.
The review of the Emissions Trading Directive will start early in 2005.
It will be a major stakeholder survey and will cover a broad range of issues, including the effect of the scheme on the extra-Community competitiveness of European companies. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, emission trading certificates are a very important aspect of the European Union's meeting its Kyoto objectives.
It seems reasonable to me to have this information but I repeat that taxation and charges are not the competence of our Commission.
Ordinary people are not aware of the value of intellectual property in the information society, hence they do not understand why piracy is an offence.
The Commission established a high-level group on digital rights management systems in March 2004, as part of the eEurope 2005 Action Plan.
The high-level group's final report, presented on 8 July, reflects a consensus on basic principles and recommendations for future actions in three areas, one of which is the migration to legitimate services.
Regarding the situation outside the EU borders, also addressed by the honourable Member, on 10 November 2004 the Commission adopted a strategy for the enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries.
The point is that all those measures are perfectly valid and, as you explained, deal with all the different aspects of protecting intellectual property.
Various Member States such as the United Kingdom, France and Germany have already put in place large-scale education and awareness programmes.
The low turnout in the European Parliament elections this spring shows that people do not care enough about the European Union, which is a serious political problem.
So this is not a large amount of money.
You asked about all the costs for the Union.
We do not have a very precise overview of all costs, but we know that for the European Parliament the costs are much higher.
According to the March 2004 report by Mr van Hulten, MEP, the total cost of having part-sessions in both Brussels and Strasbourg amounts to about EUR 200 million annually.
Mr van Hulten favoured Brussels as the single seat of Parliament and he was supported by Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control.
The Commission is not in a position to judge the functioning of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I appreciate the difficulties with the figures because there are so many of us who have to be moved between these two seats.
As I said, the location of the European institutions was decided in 1957 and it has continued to be a very high level of political decision-making.
The Commission is ready to discuss all these issues.
In his report, Mr van Hulten put these costs at about EUR 200 million, most of which were incurred as a result of travel between Brussels and Strasbourg and vice versa.
We all want to cut costs, we all want to cut waste, we all want to cut pollution, but I think the question today is the location of the seat of the European Parliament.
For my part, I would like to know whether a study has been carried out to find out whether there really is a difference, because any journey to Brussels or Strasbourg represents a cost, which is the same for everyone.
Whether Members travel to Strasbourg or to Brussels, I do not therefore believe it is really worth making a fuss about this seat every time.
I promised that I would express my opinion after the formalities were over.
The formalities were completed on 22 November and immediately after the new Commission started we made the decision to advertise this post and fill it through an open competition.
Today we received the final opinion of the legal services about some nuances concerning the announcement.
The market has no such role nor can it fully meet the need for programmes targeting minority groups in society.
However, the new media landscape in the knowledge and information society does not reduce the need for public service – on the contrary.
Cultural diversity is enshrined in Community law, mainly in the Amsterdam Protocol.
The second aspect is an innovation-encouraging and technology-welcoming strategy.
Both these objectives have a vital role to play in the future EU.
Community law does not exclude the possibility of defining new media services as a public service.
This means that appropriate public service obligations may be needed and imposed in the environment of these new technologies.
The Commission communication of 2001 on the application of state aid rules to public service broadcasting confirms that the Member States are responsible for the financing and definition of public service broadcasting.
In that communication the Commission does not exclude the possibility that certain on-line activities could be performed as a public service.
However, I should like to remind you that other media players – both existing operators and new entrants – have a role to play in contributing to pluralism, cultural diversity, innovation, competitiveness and consumer choice. &#160;&#160; Madam President, thank you very much for your answer.
My question is based on the fact that there are many who would limit the opportunities for public service to operate.
The Treaty is also important, and the Amsterdam Protocol is very clear on the matter.
The unlimited guarantee which the state grants to public television channels often exceeds by a large margin the net cost of the public service obligation.
Moreover, many public channels use the subsidies they receive (which in some cases exceeds 92% of their revenue) to offer programming similar to that of the private channel, although this has nothing to do with their fulfilling their public service obligation.
The fact that each Member State is free to establish its own definition of 'public service obligation' means that many of them choose to make this definition a kind of catch-all phrase under which all programmes can be deemed to be of public service.
Still on this question, I would like to add that the 2001 communication on State aid to public service broadcasting clarifies the way in which the relevant rules must be applied.
It explains clearly, should there still be any need to do so, that Member States are responsible for financing this public service and for defining its remit, and that it is not for the Commission to decide whether a programme should be broadcast as a service of general economic interest or what the definition of the remit should be.
The important thing in the eyes of the Commission is therefore that the remit be defined as clearly and precisely as possible, and that if a public service goes beyond its public remit it should keep separate accounts for commercial activities such as the sale of advertising space, for example. &#160;&#160; Thank you for your reply, Mrs Reding.
The purpose of my question, Commissioner, was to try to go a little further.
However, as talks are currently being held with the industry about a possible revision of the Television without Frontiers Directive, this is the time to put another definition on the table, if need be.
I am therefore waiting to see what the public and private sectors have to say on the matter.
It is certain that digital broadcasting offers improved subtitling and audio description when compared with the analogue system.
As I told Parliament at my hearing in September, I believe that the development of new technologies must be to the benefit of citizens and of their welfare.
This study will focus on developing policy models in order to help Member States implement assistive services.
Provision of assistive service is handled under the subsidiarity principle, but there are of course some areas coordinated at Community level by the Television Without Frontiers Directive.
Within the framework of this directive, I have called on the contact committee to provide information on the measures taken by the Member States in order to enhance the opportunities for access of visually- and hearing-impaired people to television programmes.
The answer to the honourable Member's question is that the study on the policy models will start at the beginning of 2005 and will finish roughly one year later, between the beginning and middle of 2006.
As for the Contact Committee, its work is continuing and the results will be published on the web in early 2005. &#160;&#160; The Commissioner will be aware that I have been raising with her the question of the broadcasting of the English Premiership on television.
What is true for one technology must be true for another, and we must show persons who have difficulties in participating fully in the information society the same respect regardless of the technology.
The Directive also states that surreptitious advertising and teleshopping are prohibited.
That is why this point was clarified in the Commission’s 2003 interpretative communication on certain aspects of the provisions on televised advertising.
I am of course prepared to go over all these matters again in connection with a possible revision of the Directive, which I intend to present in 2005. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Madam President.
I am glad to hear the Commissioner say that she will give priority to consumer protection in this case if there is to be a change of opinion in 2005.
As the member of the Commission responsible for this directive, I am pleased to indicate the following elements for the benefit of any national interpretation exercise.
Prior to that consent, the user or subscriber has to be informed of the types of data processed, the purpose and duration of the processing, and whether the data will be passed on to third parties for the purpose of the service.
If somebody can be tracked without their knowing it, that has very serious implications.
The Commission has in fact made support to the health sector and institutional support for democratic transition part of its 2003-2007 strategy for cooperation with the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Community cooperation experience in the health sector goes back a long way, with EUR 70 million having been spent on support programmes since 1992.
These programmes encourage access to basic health care and the supply of medicines at prices appropriate to the situation on the ground.
A new health support programme amounting to around EUR 70 million will be put in place to consolidate what has been achieved by the earlier programmes, and to extend their activities to other areas relating to health.
In its global plan for 2005, ECHO confirms its support for areas with a high incidence of sexual violence, in particular in the Kivus and Maniema.
Projects designed to restore the rule of law and promote women’s rights are also being funded by the European initiative for democracy and human rights.
Since the beginning of this year it has in fact been assisting the Bunia court of first instance in Ituri, which deals with cases of rape.
This will ultimately enable the national courts to deal effectively with cases involving actions for rape.
Only a few weeks ago, the Presidents of Rwanda and of the Democratic Republic of Congo concluded a new peace agreement, only to be at each other’s throats again a few days later.
Once again, thousands to tens of thousands of women have been raped.
I do indeed believe, Commissioner, that everyone expects you, with your personal dedication and your personal knowledge of the region, together with your colleague, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, to have a stronger and more effective presence in that region, and I should like to hear your view on this. &#160;&#160; .
As you well know, I am very sensitive to and very concerned at the situation in the Great Lakes countries and, more especially, by what is happening in eastern Congo.
I am also aware of the renewed abuses and renewed and extremely serious acts of violence that the region is again witnessing.
The problem is not only the ex-FAR/Interahamwe, there are also groups of what are really organised criminals and others who are really living off the backs of the population and are behind what can only be described as atrocities.
I shall therefore be touring the capitals between 15 and 20 December.
I shall be meeting with those countries’ presidents and various people in positions of responsibility, including United Nations officials, to see what the international community can really do and, in particular, what the international community is in the end prepared to do.
First of all, I am going to try and persuade the Rwandans and the Congolese to keep calm and not to act in haste and risk reopening a conflict when the transition process is in full swing.
Then I shall be doing my utmost to persuade the international community, which is represented in the country by bodies like the United Nations, of the need to take the necessary decisions to settle this matter once and for all, because, as you so rightly said, the rule of law is no longer truly a reality in that part of the world.
There is the question of elections in Congo, of the timetable for those elections, and the legislation that still has to be passed by the parliament for those elections to be held.
Unfortunately, Mr Staes, it is beyond my power to resolve the problem myself, and I can only hope that my powers of persuasion will have an effect this time.
The heightened awareness of the governments of the 25 Member States and their immediate response to the humanitarian appeals of suffering peoples has assumed unforeseen proportions at the present time.
Outbreaks of civil war, which very often spread to other countries, such as in Asia, Africa and Central America, complicate humanitarian action.
Given the difficult conditions in which the Commission, through ECHO, the Humanitarian Aid Office, and its partners, is working, it is becoming increasingly difficult to get material aid and assistance to those who are suffering.
It also has to be said that the growing involvement in humanitarian activities of players who are not strictly humanitarian, such as the military, has sometimes resulted in roles becoming confused, with the consequent risks for the safety of relief workers.
In order to preserve the existence of a humanitarian space and, consequently, to ensure that aid and equipment reaches the victims, the Commission’s decisions are based on humanitarian values and principles and on a desire to provide quality assistance through its partnership with humanitarian organisations.
In order to maintain the distinction between the roles of the military and of relief workers, the Commission supports the key role of civilian organisations when implementing humanitarian measures in situations where military capacity and resources are used.
To do so, it maintains that such recourse must comply with the guidelines for the use of army and civil defence resources in complex emergency humanitarian aid operations conducted by the United Nations.
The quality and effectiveness of ECHO’s aid depend very much on its partners’ professional abilities.
All organisations signing the partnership agreement by virtue of which they work with ECHO therefore commit themselves to upholding the fundamental humanitarian values and principles I have just mentioned.
In consultation with other sponsors and partners, ECHO is actively looking for ways of tackling the growing problems of access to victims and the safety of relief workers, with the aim of improving the situation in that regard.
To give a real-life example of this principle, when I went to Sudan, to Darfur to be more precise, I reminded the government authorities and the rebels that it was absolutely essential that they allow international humanitarian organisations free access to the victims and the people in need of help.
However, my question is a supplementary question: has your Commission thought of cutting humanitarian aid when it is not clear or certain that it will be used by those in need and there is a possibility of its ending up in the hands of the rebels?
Having said that, I admit that it is extremely difficult because we need real-time information.
We therefore have to carry out a proper analysis before cutting off humanitarian aid or stopping sending or trying to send it.
Obviously, each case is assessed individually on the basis of information from our own delegations.
But I could not give my backing to any action that did not take all these things into account.
Development aid is no exception, and it should be noted that the Court of Auditors has given a positive statement of assurance concerning the management of the European Development Fund for 2003.
As the Court of Auditors and OLAF have confirmed, the risks relate not to the regularity of the transactions managed by the delegation’s services but very often to the transactions managed by the implementing agencies, be they local associations in the developing countries, non-governmental organisations or project management structures.
That is why, in 2003, the Commission adopted a much more rigorous approach involving procedural simplification and external audit, so that such transactions can be monitored better.
So far as the part played by national interests in development aid is concerned, tendering procedures are the best guarantee of transparency and competition, and therefore also of reasonable prices.
Moreover, the European Union’s development policy is defined by the Council and Commission joint declaration of November 2000 and by partnership agreements with different regions and countries, such as the Cotonou Agreement, and, finally, by international commitments like the Millennium Declaration or the Monterrey Consensus, for example.
On the contrary, that is the comparative advantage of a development policy conducted by the Community: it represents European values, principles and objectives, it is perceived by our partners to be neutral with respect to national policies and it is based on a genuine concept of partnership with those countries which is genuinely implemented. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I should like to have practical proposals for measures.
Recently, OLAF revealed that economic aid for Lesotho did not get through and that the resources were thus not used for the purpose intended.
The proof is that you refer to a case that was in fact brought to our notice by our delegation.
But everything must also be done to prevent our entire system grinding to a halt in the process.
There you are; I am of course willing to discuss the matter and to revise my opinion, but I think there are already enough controls, especially so far as my portfolio is concerned.
Given the lack of a consensus on an electoral code, the sources of conflict are mounting up: failure to punish the ethnic crimes committed between 1989 and 1991, repeated allegations of torture, slavery-like practices and the prospect of oil production.
Given the restrictions on the exercise of civil liberties in the context of the war on terrorism, and the measures taken in the aftermath of the attempted , 2003 may be regarded as a year of regression on the democracy front.
The deterioration does not seem to have gathered pace in 2004.
Nevertheless, Mauritania remains a country where dialogue is possible among the various components of the power structure, even if that dialogue is invariably fraught with tension.
It seems to me, however, that the setback in the democratisation process does not yet warrant a vigorous initiative to secure a negotiated solution to the Mauritanian crisis.
In any case, the European Union is conducting an intensified political dialogue with the Mauritanian authorities, and is keeping a very close eye on developments.
To sum up my reply to your question, I do not think there are sufficient grounds for embarking in the immediate future on a vigorous initiative designed to secure a negotiated solution to the crisis in Mauritania.
The problem that existed in 2003 has certainly not become any more acute in 2004.
Indeed, in my previous life as a Foreign Minister, I visited Mauritania and was struck by the fact that, although the majority of its population are Muslims, Mauritania is one of the only Muslim countries that maintains relations with Israel and therefore tries to be even-handed.
For this reason, I do not think I shall have any difficulty in relaunching this political dialogue.
Questions 48 to 87 will be answered in writing. &#160;&#160; The debate will now resume, with a continuation of the discussion on the preparation of the next Financial Perspective.
Mr&#160;Silva&#160;Peneda has the floor for two minutes. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mrs Grybauskaitė, a seven-year period is a long time in the world in which we live.
In the last seven years, the world has become more globalised and societies have become more complex and diversified.
The Financial Perspectives must therefore be adaptable to the current political context and to the new realities of the world in which we live.
With the decision on the Financial Perspectives, we have a unique opportunity to show that we have a more ambitious vision for Europe, a winning vision, which I think is shared by the Commission.
The political priorities of stepping up the competitiveness of both the economy and European cohesion must go hand in hand.
Thirdly, imaginative solutions must be created, such as ensuring that funds earmarked in the EU’s budgets also act as a tool for mobilising other financial sector resources, be they from the public or private sector. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the new financial framework will be the first following EU enlargement.
The research priorities must support development of whole regions that have lived apart for historical reasons, such as the Baltic region and Central Europe.
Finally, I would state that there are high expectations of greater clarity in the EU’s foreign policy.
We face challenges in Ukraine, Caucasus, Belarus and perhaps also Russia. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to return to this afternoon’s debate.
It is a great pity that the Council is not present now to listen to our debate on the problems we face with the Financial Perspective, for, speaking as a regional politician – and as one who works in this House’s Committee on Regional Development – it is clear to me that we need the security to plan ahead.
That means that we need agreement, and need it very soon, as 2005 is the final deadline if the planning stage is not to prove insufficient for the local authorities.
What that also means is that the loss is borne by the local stakeholders who want to get involved in planning, because the planning rules will be implemented at this level far too late.
I also endorse what the Commissioner said about it making sense, in this first year with ten new Member States, to extend the period to seven years, in order to have a long planning stage where the Structural Funds are concerned.
We want a truly European policy, and that is not it! &#160;&#160; Mr President, on the future of European Parliament funding and financing, I accept that it is very important that the Commission and the Council of Ministers, and indeed Parliament, try after the first seven years to think about rationalising during the five years of Parliament's term.
Too often we try to increase the powers in Europe and increase our coverage of all sorts of items.
We need to have a Council of Ministers that is all-powerful in my book, even speaking as an MEP.
This last point has not been addressed this afternoon, even though an ageing population clearly has economic and social implications for our future.
Arm yourself with the support of Parliament and do what you can to influence the one-per-centers, to bring home to them, as Mr&#160;Barroso said, that more Europe cannot be achieved without more money.
What we are asking you to do is tell us what resources are needed to finance our objectives.
Be prepared, Commissioner, to defend the key positions vigorously.
You must be aware that this would be a bad time to disappoint not only Parliament, but all the people of Europe too. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to start what I have to say by pleading for greater seriousness and a more objective approach.
In our debate this morning on the 2005 Budget, a very large number of speakers appealed to the Council to take the Budget more seriously.
The Budget and the Financial Perspective are work programmes in the form of figures, and today we have started to discuss the policy programme for the next five years.
What we demand is greater competitiveness; Lisbon and Barcelona are the top priorities and must be implemented just as much as an enhanced role in the world for young people, the fight against terrorism, enlargement through the addition of Croatia, Bulgaria and Romania, a new neighbourhood policy and improved information and communications policies.
What I would like you to tell us is whether all the things we have been debating today with regard to additional responsibilities and measures are actually contained in the old Commission’s proposal, or whether the new Commission has to put its stamp upon it and demand political projects?
First, I welcome the fact that nearly all the honourable Members who have spoken considered that the European Union budget should be commensurate with the ambitions tabled from time to time by both the Commission and Parliament, because it is a fact that policy without money is not possible.
I refer to the question of own resources, Commissioner, but I think that these issues are directly connected. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, work on the new Financial Perspective is being undertaken in very difficult circumstances, and has therefore given rise to much controversy.
This may have been the case in the past, but it has come as a surprise to some of the new entrants to the Union.
The first point I would like to make is that the proposal to limit the budget to 1% is not inspired by the wish to economise, nor does it stem from a desire to rationalise expenditure.
This policy is becoming increasingly detached from its base, namely the principle of sharing the problems of under-development in the spirit of solidarity, and responding jointly also to the pronounced inequalities which are the inevitable consequence of economic integration.
It is therefore essential to support the efforts made in the Council of the European Union by those governments radically opposed to amendment of the relevant provisions and deletion of the principle of supporting the less-developed countries.
An example from the sporting world comes to mind.
Ladies and gentlemen, imagine a situation in which a number of players are recruited to join a football team.
It is to be hoped that the Commissioner and the Commission as a whole will act consistently to ensure that the rules remain unchanged. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is in my capacity as a representative of the largest new Member State, Poland, that I take the floor in today’s Question Time to the Commission on the Financial Perspective for 2007-2013.
I am emphasising this as most of the honourable Members who have taken the floor in this debate hail from the old Fifteen, and their views on the Financial Perspective for 2007-2013 are very much at variance with those held by the new Member States.
The first problem I would like to highlight is the size of the budget for the period in question.
The six so-called net contributors argue for 1% of GDP, whereas the Prodi Commission proposed 1.14% of GDP.
According to estimates, in absolute terms this amounts to a difference of about EUR&#160;180&#160;billion, which means around EUR&#160;25&#160;billion less for each year of this Financial Perspective.
The second problem I should like to refer to concerns the resources for Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund.
I refer in particular to their allocation to regions in the old Union affected by the ‘statistical effect’.
There are plans to allocate no less than EUR&#160;194&#160;billion to them over these next seven years, but only EUR&#160;181&#160;billion to regions in the new Union.
It should be borne in mind that this period will see the accession of at least two new Member States, and that the whole of the territory of the 12 new countries is eligible for support.
The third problem I wish to mention concerns limiting resources from the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund to 4% of the GDP of the Member State in question.
For the ten new Member States this means an annual total of less than EUR&#160;20&#160;billion.
I very much hope the Commissioner will take the three concerns I mentioned into account. &#160;&#160; Mr President, let me raise a few issues from the perspective of a new Member State.
First, the new financial framework should be driven by the political priorities of the enlarged Union and the principle of solidarity among the Member States.
Fourth, from the point of view of less-developed economies in the EU, the level of financial assistance should be proportional to countries' current economic level of development.
In any case the assistance rate per capita should not be higher in the more prosperous Member States than in the less-developed ones.
Fifth, we should also consider that the limitation of structural assistance through the capping rule, if it is applied in the next programming period, could, in some cases, slow down the social and economic convergence of the least-developed Member States, by directing cohesion policy resources to more developed Member States and regions.
It is impossible to overcome the challenges of an enlarged and ever-enlarging Europe with less money. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is important that we be given the opportunity of discussing the financial framework in good time and of voting on it in the parliamentary committees at regular intervals.
In the past, in fact, regional policy has been extremely effective.
The disparities in Europe have levelled out to a large extent, and, in the light of new key initiatives, especially the Lisbon agenda, this policy should certainly be continued.
This can only be done, however, if this Parliament, in consultation with the Commission and the Council, lays down the new regulations in good time.
In concrete terms, this means that by the middle of next year, mid-2005, we should be able to take a decision on this, failing which we will have a repeat of what happened in 1999 when the debates were too lengthy and implementation had to be cut short.
The Lisbon agenda requires perseverance on the part of the national governments and of those involved in the regions.
This means that we must be ready in time, and, from that point of view, carrying the whole thing over to the second half of 2006, under the British Presidency, would be detrimental to the policy.
In short, I should like to emphasise the importance of regional policy in the context of the Lisbon objectives, innovation, promotion of competition and the new second budget objective, partly because this can promote cooperation in regions and cooperation between partners.
If 1% were to culminate in a renationalisation of policy, we would miss the European added value, and I would find that very regrettable. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much.
That brings us to the end of the list of speakers.
The debate is therefore closed. &#160;&#160; We feel that the Commission’s proposal for the next Financial Perspectives is clearly not sufficient to address the current social, economic and environmental challenges, the need for economic and social cohesion – which has increased with enlargement – and the high levels of unemployment and poverty in the EU.
One might ask in this debate whether Barroso reinforces and exacerbates Prodi, given that statements from Commissioners pave the way towards negotiating, or renegotiating, below the already inadequate package, in line with the signatories of the ‘Letter of the six’, who intend to impose a ceiling of 1% of Community GNI on the budget, something to which we have always been opposed.
We therefore wish to make it clear that we reject the Financial Perspectives, of which the average annual spending falls between the Commission’s proposal and the ceiling of the ‘Letter of the six’, which I mentioned earlier, and is moving ever closer to that ceiling.
Lastly, we support the idea of retaining the seven-year financial framework, given that, even in this area, the tendency is to ‘negotiate’ downwards. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0051/2004) by Mrs&#160;Lambert on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on asylum procedure and protection in regions of origin [2004/2121(INI)].
I am sure that we would all have liked more committee time, not least to have debated the amendments presented in committee and the overall content more thoroughly, as I am aware that certain difficulties still remain.
As regards the single procedure, we recognise that it is better both for the asylum applicant and the authorities if all relevant information is examined at one time, and we welcome the fact that the Commission has laid out a common order of decision-making.
However, we also recognise the possible protection gap in those Member States that only employ full refugee status and have no practice of subsidiary protection, compared with Member States using both categories.
I recognise that this is a difficult issue for some Members and that paragraphs 37 and 38 of the report may seem to pre-empt the reconsultation process on the procedures directive in which we hope Parliament will be involved very shortly.
I would welcome the views of Members on the possible loss of those paragraphs.
This is due to a line in a Canadian diplomat's report some years ago, which is still included in the country information the UK uses.
All the other opinions of that diplomat have been deleted over time.
The EU has to do better than that in terms of the quality of the information we use to decide on people's lives.
More controversially, the majority view in committee was that we need to have in place some form of monitoring or report-back system on what happens to those who are returned having made unsuccessful claims for protection.
We want to know how the Commission proposes to improve such coordination in future.
In that context we welcome the proposed EU regional protection programmes and wish to be involved in their development and assessment.
We agree that the Commission's dual approach – to aim for a universally high standard of application of the current directives within the EU and to improve the conditions for the vast majority of refugees within the region they are fleeing – is a reasonable and indeed ambitious programme.
In the asylum chapter of the Hague Programme the objective of a common European asylum system is fully confirmed and an ambitious deadline of 2010 is set for the realisation of that goal.
As of spring 2005 the European Parliament will be a co-legislator in the process necessary to bring this about.
The Hague Programme also reflects the fact that the external dimension of asylum is being recognised as increasingly important in the EU.
I am grateful to the rapporteur for recognising the importance of this work and the financial implications involved.
The full support of the European Parliament is required.
The durable solutions communication explores how the EU can enhance protection capacities in regions of origin and also help ensure more orderly and managed entry into the EU of persons in need of international protection through the setting-up of an EU-wide resettlement scheme.
These plans must be entirely complementary to, and not a substitute for, Member States' obligations under international human rights law, and in particular the 1951 Refugee Convention and the right to asylum in the European Union.
The Hague Programme is clear that the implementation of the second phase of the common European asylum system must be based on a robust evaluation of the impact of the measures taken in Member States.
Parallel to third countries, we must be seen to be ready to assume our own responsibilities: the creation of a common European asylum system as called for at Tampere, a fully-fledged regional protection programme by December 2005, and a resettlement scheme based on the absorption capacity of individual Member States.
Finally, enhancing protection capacity in creating protected entry procedures does not mean abandoning the existing right of application for asylum on spontaneous arrival in an EU Member State.
Today, and with our sights set on 2010, the date established in the Hague programme for completing the second phase of the common asylum system, we are faced with the fortunate fact that the European Union has already adopted important rules, but there is still a long way to go and we are committed to doing so.
Keeping asylum seekers outside of our borders is not the best way to demonstrate the validity of the values on which the European Union is based.
Secondly, we ask that assistance for refugees be based on the principle of solidarity and a fair distribution of responsibility.
Once again, we can see that only solidarity and joint action by the Union can provide viable and lasting solutions.
Once again, the Union has the opportunity to demonstrate its commitment to a genuinely common asylum system.
Finally, we express our support for a system of resettlement at Community level, but one which always reconciles the will of the State and that of the individual in question.
It is difficult to go from the position of saying that we want burden sharing, a common asylum policy and to support the Tampere agenda, to the practical application of that in a report which moves forward some of the things that we want to see.
We talk about good asylum decisions.
My Group fully supports the report.
Allow me to assure them of our solidarity.
Europeans must know that there is a better standard of living here than in Africa and, in particular, that it is possible for people to work here illegally if they are prepared to earn less and keep quiet.
Yes, we need to restore the honour of Europe, which is all too often sullied, just as we must urge the Union to stop burying its head in the sand on the pretext that talking about immigration fuels nationalist sentiments.
Yes, the European Union should have an asylum policy that accords with the principles of the European Human Rights Convention.
Yes, the European Union should examine the emigration issue in depth.
In fact, the refusal to create such centres leaves the situation unchanged, and hinders the welcome involvement of countries of transit in the management of the migration process.
The centre that was recently set up in Africa, thanks to important intervention by my country through the Tripoli agreements, has already managed to prevent, at least so far, the Mediterranean crossings by desperate people in the traffickers’ old tubs and the resulting tragic shipwrecks.
Its creation has thus made it possible to achieve a positive outcome in the fight against the despicable trafficking in human beings. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, asylum is not a technical issue.
For the past few decades, the Member States of the European Union have given little thought to asylum policy, particularly regarding individuals from other continents.
The disastrous consequences of this approach are now evident.
I am pleased to note that in the second point of its resolution, the European Parliament emphasises the need for ‘measures to step up protection capacity in the regions of origin [of potential asylum seekers]’.
The Union must safeguard the fundamental principles on which its existence is based, but it must do so in a way that benefits everyone, both its own citizens and those of third countries.
If there must be a single immigration policy, then all its consequences must be accepted, above all at times like these when there are deep concerns regarding internal security.
Among other things, it is important not to rule out the organisation of an immigration information and preparation system in countries of origin and transit.
We have, in fact, reached a critical juncture in the formulation of a European asylum policy.
Among the provisions of this programme for the second phase of harmonisation is the development of a common asylum procedure, and our main message here is that Europe is a place of refuge and that we must preserve that humanitarian tradition.
European asylum policy must be based on the principle of solidarity, of shared burdens and responsibilities, not only inside the European Union but also with non-EU countries.
A European asylum policy must also reinforce the fundamental rights of asylum seekers.
The primary aim of the single asylum procedure must be to guarantee a high level of protection for refugees.
The European Parliament, democratically elected and accountable to the peoples of Europe, must affirm the right of asylum seekers to a dignified reception.
In the meantime, however, it is our duty to focus on the local integration of refugees and on their accommodation in host countries while upgrading protection capabilities and developing a programme for the development and adoption of sustainable solutions.
I felt it was important to clarify that point. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I concur with the many warm words that have been spoken by a number of Members, and I too would ask for your support for this excellent report.
It would appear that the Member States find it easier to reach agreement on how to keep people outside of the EU than on how we can properly allow them in.
Over the past few weeks and months, the EU and Parliament have discussed European values and human rights at great length, particularly in the debate on the Commission, but also again today in connection with Turkey.
Asylum seekers are not criminals; they are fellow human beings and should, accordingly, be received under humane conditions.
I echo her call for the highest possible international standards and human rights to guide EU policy.
The emphasis in the report on speeding up asylum requests and ensuring efficiency and transparency in the decision-making process is also welcome.
Conflict, poverty and socio-political instability affect millions of people across the world.
We therefore need to shift the emphasis towards promoting conflict resolution and prevention under the auspices of the United Nations.
The long-term solution to issues of asylum is to reduce conflict and poverty globally.
The EU has a major role to play in this regard.
We must demonstrate to the world that when it comes to human rights, justice and equality, the policy implementation of the EU is as good as its rhetoric.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees was able to interview 60 of the 75 Eritreans, since the others were in prison for the hijacking.
On the other hand, even countries such as mine – Italy – do not have a law on the right to asylum, and therefore reject migrants indiscriminately, without examining applications and without fair, just and individual assessments.
Europe itself, though, should examine asylum applications, at the same time helping the Maghreb countries to progress along the path of respecting rights.
The refugees will be our foremost allies in promoting economic, civil and democratic growth in their countries of origin, since the world will be more secure only when it stops being so unfair. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much.
The debate is therefore closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0067/2004) by Mr&#160;Catania on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, containing a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the European Union drugs strategy (2005-2012) [2004/2221(INI)].
The 2004 report by the Lisbon Centre indicates that the situation regarding deaths from heroin and heroin users in Europe is, all in all, stable but that no decrease has been seen in the transmission of HIV, which is even spreading in some new Member States; that the consumption of cocaine is increasing in the majority of Member States; that cannabis is the most widely-used substance, with over 20% of European citizens having used it or currently using it; and that the use of ecstasy is as high as, if not even higher than, amphetamine use.
All this unequivocally demonstrates that the strategies adopted up to now have not had positive results.
With regard to drug use in prisons, the Centre indicates that drug users are over-represented in prison; that the use of drugs among detainees ranges from 22 to 86%, depending on the prison population, the prison and the country; and that prisons are a high-risk environment for the spread of infectious diseases.
Finally, with regard to drug trafficking, Europol indicates that narcotics trafficking accounts for approximately 2 to 5% of world GDP, which goes directly into the hands of drug traffickers and large criminal organisations worldwide.
This demonstrates that the action plan adopted by the UN in 1998 has not had positive results, and this is also true in terms of the importance of drugs in funding organised crime and terrorism.
A prominent prosecutor, Gerardo D'Ambrosio, has explained to us that to finance the Madrid attack the Al-Quaida terrorists bartered 250 kilograms of hashish for the TNT.
The issue must not be treated as a question of public order or a matter for repression, but exclusively as a social and economic issue.
For these reasons we have focused the report on the issue of the strategy for harm reduction and substitution treatment in prisons, as well as on the need to apply scientific knowledge to the effects produced by drugs, to launch scientific studies on the costs and benefits of the current policies to curb narcotics, to help producer countries to convert their agriculture, to study the effects that cannabis, opium and coca leaves can have in the medical sphere and, lastly, to take action on the confiscation of criminal and terrorist assets derived from money laundering and drug trafficking.
I therefore call on the European Parliament to adopt this report, on the Commission to back it and on the Council – which is unfortunately absent, having clearly already made up its mind – to consider including this recommendation on the agenda for the meeting to be held in three days’ time.
It is based on an assessment of the previous strategy, which the Commission carried out back in October.
The European approach, which favours a balance between demand-reduction and supply-reduction measures, therefore covers 25 countries.
This strategy clearly addresses the need to enhance coordination within the Union as well as to raise the profile of EU efforts in other countries.
The principal aims laid down in the strategy will be translated into specific actions in the two successive four-year action plans, which, as you are aware, will be proposed by the Commission at the start of 2005 and the start of 2009 respectively.
The Commission intends to adopt its proposal for an action plan in February&#160;2005.
It believes that Parliament’s contribution in an area such as the drugs issue is essential as a means of bringing European policy closer to the people.
What we need, in other words, is a shared European political strategy.
Recent figures about drug use among young people are alarming.
An increasing number of young people start experimenting, and at an ever-younger age, with soft drugs, in particular, which are made ever more accessible by the falling prices for them.
The Commission’s assessment report and the annual report of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction prove that a great deal is yet to be done, including at European level.
The European policy should, as the Commissioner stated, add value to the differentiated approach in the different Member States in terms of coordination, information, scientific research and the tackling of the cross-border drugs trade and crime that goes hand in hand with that.
We believe that, if such a policy is to be adopted, a separate budget line should be created for supporting new initiatives and promoting the exchange of useful experience between the various Member States.
Nothing of the sort is to be found in this report.
We support it for many of the reasons which the previous speaker mentioned, including in terms of the science and pragmatic facts of this debate.
One is that there is an active interest in this House in an EU drugs strategy.
Mr Catania continually stressed this point, because it is too often ignored in Member States.
It is for us in the European Union to tackle some of the difficult issues across Member States which sometimes individual Member States are not emphasising enough.
This is a serious issue for the European Union.
It has been much amended and I think that, in the light of those amendments, it is a report that the whole House should support.
It is therefore unfortunate that the assessment of the previous strategy was not available on time.
It would be very regrettable if the Council were to do so without Parliament having had a say in it.
The report takes a pragmatic, realistic approach, and I have to say, in all honesty, that I have interpreted it in a completely different way from Mrs Brepoels.
Crucial to our approach must be prevention and pragmatism.
This is why the harm reduction strategies are absolutely fundamental.
Finally, it is essential to integrate social measures and pharmacological substitution measures.
If we in the European Union are serious about tackling the drug trade, we will need to impose sanctions.
On behalf of my group, I have therefore tabled two amendments enabling the continued application of sanctions in respect of drug offences, alongside preventive measures.
This, of course, does not make it a good report.
The fact is, first and foremost, that we are dealing with people's lives – and the lives of people who are invariably some of the most vulnerable in our society.
The only way to prevent people from relapsing into addiction is to take away their need for the drug.
If we go down the road of legalisation and harm reduction, as proposed in this report, then we would see the problem exacerbated a hundredfold across all our cities.
It means that prevention and the fight against drugs under criminal law have the highest priority.
The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction in Lisbon also points this out at the end of the introductory summary in its report, which I think Mr&#160;Catania should read.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, in common with we Swedish Moderates, will vote against Mr&#160;Catania’s report precisely because we take a stand in the fight against this epidemic.
Since then, policy in a number of states has been aimed at isolating, criminalising, penalising and eliminating drug users.
In his report, my colleague, Mr Giusto Catania, has shown the right way to reduce the problems as much as possible.
I am aware that this approach meets with emotional objections among those who laboured under the illusion of being able to stamp out drugs by penalising the users, but that has only resulted in resistance to the lack of freedom.
A common drugs policy within the EU means a compromise policy that is liberal regarding drugs.
For us, it is important for Sweden’s restrictive drugs policy to continue in the future too.
The report emphasises a drugs policy designed to reduce harm.
In conclusion, I would note that drug problems in the EU are in large measure a consequence of the prevailing poverty in many countries in the world.
He said that the number of drug-related deaths has begun to fall, that heroin use has levelled off in a number of countries, that the HIV epidemic among users is slowing and, I quote, ‘measures to reduce drug-related harm are intensifying and, across much of Europe, drug users have better access to treatment and care’.
This clearly demonstrates that not everything has been negative.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is room for a European anti-drugs policy that fights back against drug-related crime, and that, as per the programme, meets the four main objectives of preventing drug use and dependency, reducing the supply and demand of illegal drugs, limiting social and health damage and reducing crime.
In countries such as Sweden, with a restrictive view of drugs, 7% of 15 year-olds have used cannabis.
Anyone who wants to see fewer drugs in Europe should vote against Mr&#160;Catania’s report. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would warn against the terms ‘soft’ and ‘hard’ drugs.
I have visited many different treatment centres for drug addicts where just about all addicts have agreed that what are mistakenly called soft drugs started them off on the drug misuse that destroyed their lives and robbed them of their future.
In my own country, Sweden, we have combined a restrictive drugs policy and the criminalisation of drugs with care and treatment for addicts.
The small increase we have seen in Sweden in recent years has been due partly to the open borders and partly to the influence of the legalisation debate taking place elsewhere in the EU. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much.
I understand the Commissioner does not wish to take the floor, so the debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A6-0049/2004), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the Council common position for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on maximum residue levels of pesticides in or on food and feed of plant and animal origin and amending Council Directive 91/414/EEC [9262/1/2004 – C6-0110/2004 – 2003/0052(COD)] (Rapporteur: Robert Sturdy).
My Liberal, Socialist and Green colleagues have worked very closely together on this report.
This is very important in setting a precedent for the future, so that we know exactly what good agricultural practices are.
It was somewhat difficult to get a position on synergistic effects, but we now have a situation where we know exactly where we are going to be with those effects.
It is important, when we are pushing this through, that governments do not gold-plate it: we want an equal footing.
The negotiations between Council presidency, the European Parliament rapporteurs and the Commission have recently gained momentum and last week the final obstacles were cleared.
It will enable us to set harmonised maximum residue levels in the EU for all pesticides and all agricultural products in one piece of legislation directly applicable to all EU citizens.
This legislation will benefit all parties.
Consumers will profit from better protection and more transparency about which pesticides could be present in food and their potential effects.
Before I finish, I would like to make a few comments on the finer points resolved in the negotiations.
The European Parliament's insistence on taking cumulative and synergistic effects into account may lead to a breakthrough in the development and application of the necessary methodology.
I am pleased that this is now explicitly mentioned in the draft legislation.
The clear requirement to take into account vulnerable groups of the population, including children and unborn children, is also a useful step forward.
I am happy to confirm that the Commission can agree to and accept the compromise package worked out between the three institutions.
This is not just about food safety and health, but also about equal opportunities in competing in the internal market and – let us not forget – on the global market.
The European Food Safety Authority has great responsibility where risk management is concerned.
Equally, though, we have to look more closely at imports into the European Union.
We cannot intervene in their production processes in the way we can with the food produced here, and that makes it all the more important that the end market be checked and monitored.
I should like to thank the other ‘shadow rapporteurs’, and I should also like to thank the Commission and the Council for the sound guidance and advice we have received.
I am pleased that I have been allowed to deliver my first speech here in plenary on a matter as important as this.
In actual fact, I see this draft Act or legislation as an example of the EU at its best.
There also needs, however, to be legislation with a view to more vulnerable groups such as children, born and as yet unborn.
The fact is, it is not enough only to take account of how poisonous or non-poisonous a pesticide is.
We must also take account of how poisonous or non-poisonous two or three or four pesticides are when they interact, that is to say when they react to each other in a particular food.
Otherwise, there may be major consequences in terms of health.
These were not easy things to negotiate successfully but, especially through sound guidance from the Council and the Commission, we obtained a compromise with which everyone can be pleased and which will help secure our objectives.
I would say that, all in all, this is a proposal that may make a positive difference to the everyday life of Europeans, and that is something I am pleased about and proud to be associated with. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the draft law we are debating in this House today will be of great significance for public health in Europe and for Europeans’ confidence in food safety.
It is incredibly important for all our voters in our various constituencies, but it is particularly important perhaps for parents with allergic children.
The internal market is incredibly important.
It is incredibly important that these options for taking account of local or regional variations should not reduce the proposal’s level of ambition.
I am pleased that we have been able to make it easier for civil society and the non-governmental organisations to participate in the discussion and handling of these issues. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is very late now and very few of us are left but nevertheless we are dealing with a very important issue.
It is a pity that once again in this Parliament legislation is left until the end of the day.
There are two issues which particularly concern me and I am very pleased that we have secured a deal on them.
The first is cumulative and synergistic effects: cocktail effects.
We were told that there is no methodology at present to measure this effect but this is an effect which research suggests is at the root of our problems.
I am very pleased to hear the Commissioner say that he is going to take this research forward and support Parliament in making sure that we get more research into the cumulative effects.
One problem is that a lot of experts say that these cumulative effects are unfounded, but we have nothing to prove or disprove this.
We must get this research, it is very important.
The second issue mentioned by Mr Jørgensen is about the effects on children and the unborn.
A lot of research suggests that children and the unborn have in some way been affected by either pesticides or chemicals in our environment.
These tests showed that the highest level of chemicals was found not in the grandmother – who had lived through the highest levels of pollution in our streets in the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s – but in the granddaughter who was 15 years old.
We know that some of these substances come in through pesticides.
Public confidence in food safety and food standards is very low.
Scientific research shows that imported products have more pesticides than products grown within the EU.
I am very grateful to Mr Sturdy, Mr Jørgensen and all those within the Commission and the Council who worked very hard to achieve a compromise that we can all support tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much.
I understand the Commissioner does not wish to take the floor, so the debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon.
