Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 4 October 2001.
Agenda The next item is the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents, pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
The election will take place on Tuesday at 12 noon.
This report will therefore be placed on the agenda of the next part-session in accordance with the normal procedure.
Pursuant to Rule 114, 37 Members have opposed the application of the procedure without report to the proposal for a Council decision on admitting the European Community to the Codex Alimentarius Committee, currently scheduled to be taken at voting time on Tuesday at 12 noon.
This proposal for a decision is therefore referred back to the committee responsible for reconsideration.
Thank you, Mr Borghezio.
It is on the agenda for the next meeting here in Strasbourg.
The Petitions Committee is as anxious as anybody that this report should be published as soon as possible.
I find this scandalous to say the least, and I believe that there is a genuine problem with the way things work in our Parliament, which is that, in actual fact, we serve no purpose.
The Conference of Presidents confirmed the majority vote of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy and also proposed the runner-up, who had also received a large number of votes, so that there are three nominations.
I would also like to tell you, Mr Cohn-Bendit, that you can not only reach me at any time by telephone, but I am also available for private discussions whenever you wish.
This directive is as important in the fight against terrorism as the bombs which are being dropped on Afghanistan or the efforts of those who are risking their lives there.
I hope this House will act swiftly when this matter comes before it at the next plenary session.
Unfortunately, we have to await the documentation that comes from the Council in all 11 languages of the Community before we actually have Council's position formally adopted so that we can come to a conclusion with a third reading.
Madam President, my group would also have liked to see the money laundering directive approved sooner.
This House rightly rejects discrimination in all its forms and we receive opinions on this subject from many quarters, including the Economic and Social Committee.
The Commission response to this, however, has been stony-faced and ideological.
It has sought to use the crisis arising from the atrocities of 11 September to shake out the industry to ensure that companies that may or may not have survived in the normal course of economic operations are forced to close down.
Madam President, this is the second session that we are holding in October.
As you will recall, at our first October session, we made a last minute change to the agenda in order to debate and vote on the dreadful accident that occurred at the AZF factory in Toulouse.
Madam President, I would like to thank you for mentioning at the start of the sitting the tragedy which took place at Milan Linate airport, which claimed 118 lives.
Of course, it became clear very early on that, while, regrettably, human error is always possible, it was made possible in this case largely by the severe lack of security in that airport, which we all believed to be safe.
Mrs Ghilardotti, I believe that what you have said somewhat pre-empts the debate that will take place in a few moments, following the points of order.
He is still very weak, but human rights campaigners have encouraged him to abandon his hunger strike.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the previous plenary session of the European Parliament, a debate was held on the steps to take in the fight against terrorism in the wake of the attacks of 11 September.
I shall therefore begin with the issue of air transport safety.
As I am sure you know, the European Council of 21 September 2001 requested that measures be taken in order to strengthen air transport security.
This reciprocal monitoring system will enable experts of one Member State to be sent to inspect security measures in airports of another Member State.
On 10 October, the Commission proposed a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council to approximate air transport security and safety standards within the European Union, and also to give the Commission the power of execution and inspection in order to ensure that the standards are being applied.
Unfortunately, the work of the group of experts has been inconclusive and the preliminary report submitted to the Transport Council on 16 October merely stresses, firstly, that much remains to be done in order to ensure that safety measures are being applied effectively in all airports and, secondly, identifies the need for new measures to prevent the dangerous behaviour of some individuals in aircraft, such as banning access to cockpits or enhancing cooperation between civil monitoring of air traffic and the use of military air defence methods.
Not only because of a lack of specific recommendations from the above mentioned group, but also because international bodies appear to be having difficulties in reacting swiftly.
The Commission believes that we must enhance cooperation so that preventative measures are implemented in a coordinated manner on both sides of the Atlantic.
In this spirit, we organised a meeting with our American counterparts, which is to be held on 6 and 7 November 2001, to set up a working group that brings together the American authorities and the Commission with a view to coordinating efforts so that the highest possible level of security is ensured, whilst avoiding a situation where airline companies are subjected to excessive measures.
I shall now move on to the possible consequences of terrorist activities, such as those committed on 11 September 2001, had they been carried out on an industrial or power installation.
We should also mention, however, that other installations, that are less well protected, may be vulnerable, and a fatal accident of considerable proportions could happen at one of these plants, whether they belong to the chemical industry, which was the case at Bhopal, Seveso and recently at Toulouse - or at other power installations, such as natural gas infrastructures, which are not without risks.
Since 11 September, Member States' authorities have strengthened existing protective systems and physical protection measures that were already in force for at-risk installations and more specifically for nuclear installations.
These physical protection measures are particularly for access control to the installations and include a ban on flying over the installations.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your attention.
In recognising the determination of the European Union and its Member States to safeguard its citizens from acts of terrorism, we stress the need to reassure the public by striking the right balance between vigilance and enabling everyday life to continue.
We can work together and we can be very careful when we consider building, or indeed retaining, a potential target.
Things will not be the same after 11 September, as many others have said.
Madam President, Commissioner, we have reached a serious point, a very serious point.
The fact that France has called on its armed forces in an attempt to protect its reactors is evidence that air attacks on nuclear plants are plausible.
And will the ground-to-air missiles deployed around the re-processing plant in The Hague be effective against a suicide attack?
Lastly, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I regret the fact that my fellow Members from other groups did not deem it necessary to follow this debate with a resolution.
As far as safety on aircraft and at boarding are concerned, the events of 11 September show that two measures must be taken in aircraft design: cockpits must be sealed off and video monitors must be installed to enable the pilot to see anyone nearing the cockpit.
Transponders must be secure and it must no longer be possible to disconnect them during flights, as was the case during the attacks on the United States.
I would also like to draw Parliament' s attention to the issue of aid to the European airline industry.
Lastly, I would like to say one final word to point out that these public funds are intended to help companies to continue to be viable.
I believe, therefore, that it is our duty to ensure that they are used and to avoid any redundancies in the sector.
This is not only a problem for the Irish people: it is also a problem for the British people and for the wider European Union.
As a representative of the East coast of Ireland, I have always resented the Irish Sea being used as a rubbish tip for the activities of British Nuclear Fuels.
This is a clear case of the British government using the war on terrorism to distract attention from awkward and contentious decisions.
The safety and security at the Sellafield plant is as much a matter of concern for the European Union as it is for the Irish and British governments.
The British government should make the honourable decision to close this nuclear white elephant once and for all.
But over the next few weeks the Commission should and must carry out a full and independent evaluation of all the environmental public health risks of all operations of BNFL at the Sellafield nuclear plant.
Mr President, Commissioner, the crisis in air transport unfolding before our very eyes following the terrorist attack on 11 September is, of course, exacerbated by factors such as structural problems in airline companies, the absence, so far, at least, of a single European airspace, which we hope will soon become a reality, and public concern about the safety of air transport.
We need to act as quickly as possible.
And, of course, if, our hopes notwithstanding, there are delays, I think that the European Union should proceed unilaterally in order to establish a climate of safety in air transport.
No reactor could withstand the impact of a Boeing 747.
What is true of nuclear installations, though, is also true of other technological systems.
Now, I accept that many in our countries are opposed to nuclear energy, and that, in some countries, they may well be in the majority.
My conclusion simply follows the line taken by the Commission.
Mr President, Commissioner Vitorino, I should like to make a few observations.
I would like to draw your attention to the use of other means of transport - something which we have already noted - such as tankers containing chemicals, and ask the Commissioner for his thoughts on the matter.
In other words, not only aviation but also other means of transport should be discussed.
The unbalanced pursuit of economic growth, freedom for airline companies and the rolling back of government has, in connection with the sad events of 11 September, led to too little attention being paid, on the one hand, to the risk of industrial buildings collapsing and, on the other hand, to government supervision of access to airports by people with malicious intentions.
It is not the first time that I am bringing these two matters to the attention of the Commission.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 11 September will go down as a crucial date in the history of the modern era in general and for the aviation sector in particular, for which we can talk about a before and an after.
We must also take account of other measures that were already on the table, such as the JAR-OPS Regulation, the draft directive on occurrence reporting in civil aviation and the proposal on the professional competence of cabin crew.
I wish to deal briefly with two issues: one I have already addressed, that is the state of the airline industry in Europe.
There is a report in Irish newspapers today that the Commission is insisting that the rescue and aid package the Irish government will provide for Aer Lingus must be privately funded.
The report which is coming before STOA this week makes for worrying reading.
It will hopefully be made public very soon, but the reality is that Sellafield and Cap de la Hague were a risk even before 11 September 2001; the chemical plants in our midst were a risk even before Toulouse.
Madam President, after the 11 September atrocity we are in a new situation.
No-fly zones should be established immediately around the two reprocessing plants in the EU: Sellafield and Cap de la Hague.
The French government has already moved to strengthen anti-terrorist precautions at Cap de la Hague.
The US government has halted the transport of nuclear materials, and the EU government should also immediately halt the transport of nuclear materials, including MOX fuels.
They contain tens of thousands of tonnes of spent nuclear fuel and over 100 tonnes of separated plutonium between them.
A new report, which is both timely and in terms of content deeply worrying, has been prepared for the European Parliament.
The report states that an act of malice - and this was presented to us before September - could initiate a sequence of events that release radioactive material in the liquid high-level waste tanks, in Sellafield in particular, with effects much greater and more devastating than Chernobyl.
I also welcome the way the Commission deals explicitly with all the areas at especial risk, and, in particular, its inclusion of industrial plant and nuclear power stations, which was demanded on Austria's initiative in Parliament's resolution on the events of 11 September.
That is why I can assure you that, as regards matters for which the Commission has direct responsibility under the Treaties, we have taken all the necessary measures to deal with the new situation created by the terrorist attacks on the United States.
I would like to stress that this is part of national competences and that it is the national authorities that inform us that the necessary measures have been taken.
The Commission recognises the need to begin an assessment of nuclear security and the security of transporting nuclear materials.
As far as air safety and security are concerned, I am pleased that several Members of Parliament have welcomed our legislative initiative with open arms and I hope that the regulation that we have proposed can be examined by Parliament as a matter of urgency.
I would also like to stress that we must improve how we follow up on measures taken at national level, just as the ad hoc group is doing, which is responsible for assessing specific administrative measures that need to be taken to improve air security.
Mr President, I would like to make a final comment.
I did not deal with specific questions, such as those that some Members of Parliament wanted to bring up during the debate.
I have taken careful note of the fact that some of you thought that the Commission proposals were insufficient or too ideological.
The debate is closed.
It is not the first time I have heard Commissioners come into this House and say they have no obligations in relation to nuclear power plants and that this is a matter for the Member States.
of a Council Regulation on the development of the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) [9844/2001 - C5-0315/2001 - 2001/0818(CNS)] 2.
of a Council Decision on the development of the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) [9845/2001 - C5-0316/2001 - 2001/0819(CNS)].
When the Maastricht Treaty came into force in 1993, judicial cooperation in civil matters became a matter of common concern for the Member States.
The entry into force of the present Treaty of Nice means that future decisions on judicial cooperation in civil matters will finally be reached by codecision procedure with qualified majority in the Council.
You can see that things in this field are developing at breakneck speed.
In no area of European law is continuing professional education so imperative as in civil law, in which harmonisation has already made progress.
The Commission proposal before us today now represents the legal basis for further financial support for activities in the field of legal cooperation in civil matters.
The debate on the money-laundering directive showed us how vital it is in this area to define terms.
I have therefore proposed the adoption of the old definition from the GROTIUS civil law programme.
Today, as a police investigation system overlapping states and supported by computers, it facilitates online access to over 8 million items of data produced by investigations and is thus the most comprehensive database in Europe.
The suggestion that a regulatory committee should be in place to deal with all matters concerning the system's architecture and with data protection issues, also goes against Council decision 468/99.
This saved us all a great deal of time and money and still produced an effective result.
So I will go on the record as welcoming, as a step in this direction, the financing of Schengen II out of Community funds with effect from 2002.
I should like to say that this proposal to develop a new generation Schengen Information System, SIS II, can only be accepted as the first, preparatory, stage in the system' s development.
Community funding will not solve the problems that divide us in our analyses of the functioning of the SIS.
At the same time, a single Community information system must be set up consisting of a computer network system that contains data received under the three conventions, Schengen, Europol and Customs, bearing in mind the need to keep the data held under these conventions separate.
These initiatives are the real premises of the preliminary work that must be undertaken in order to create the new SIS II system.
They have come into being, as has already been stated, as a result of the rejection of intergovernmental funding by some Member States and are based on the Commission' s willingness to take the risk and the political responsibility for going ahead with the development of this new information system in the years to come.
The SIS, which, as we know, has only been a Community instrument since 1999, has matured very quickly.
As we know, in the current historical circumstances, it provides a vital European source of information on citizens of third countries and assets that have disappeared or been stolen, given the immensity of the task of controlling our external borders or movement within any part of Community territory.
I also believe that tomorrow' s final vote on this report will produce a text on which it will be much easier for Parliament to agree on an opinion.
Mr President, only budgetary funding can give coherence to the new Community nature of the Schengen acquis, of which the current and future information systems are a part.
I therefore feel, Mr President, that we must not get bogged down in the minutiae of accounting procedures or of the law.
In the second report the rapporteur looks at the problems that have emerged with the Schengen Information System and the opportunity to move forward to the second version of it, which clearly will be needed with enlargement.
It must be financed from our budget.
In particular, Article 96, which is the article governing the data on those refused entry, must be in the First Pillar.
Article 99 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement states that the SIS can also be used to - as it is termed - obtain information in order to repel a significant danger originating from a specified person, or other significant dangers.
Hitherto, SIS has been a huge collection of information and notes on people and objects: it contains data entered by each Member State according to different laws and criteria which has been accessible to users at different levels of responsibility.
Reference has been made to the events in Genoa: thousands of people had been recorded in SIS after the incidents in Gothenburg, but this was of no benefit to the Italian police.
I am speaking on the European judicial area in civil matters.
A detailed examination of the GROTIUS programme led to the conclusion that a new, more general, framework for activities in this field was needed.
I thoroughly welcome this draft regulation by the Commission, which is intended to create a legal basis for the financing of judicial cooperation in civil matters by the EU Budget.
It is greatly to be welcomed that acceding countries and third countries are able to participate in all these activities.
Legal practitioners in these countries can, however, participate in the projects alongside their counterparts from the acceding countries and elsewhere.
For that reason definition by means of a concluding list, as proposed by the rapporteur, would in this case inhibit the flexible use of this regulation in the future and limit its scope.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is the Schengen Information System meant to achieve?
It so happens, in the present situation, that most restrictions on basic rights.... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, as we all know, the current Schengen Information System has been in operation since 1995 but did not become a Community resource until 1999 when the Schengen acquis was adopted by the European Union in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The proposed legal framework needs to clarify certain crucial issues.
Finally, we also need to mention the need to adopt a Community information system consisting of a single electronic network in order to facilitate transparent data storage, management and evaluation.
Mr President, since it started operating in 1995, the Schengen Information System has been used and is used, together with Europol, as a tool to facilitate repression at European level, to manufacture and monitor suspects, to combat resistance movements and disobedience policies and to devastate immigrants arriving in Europe looking for a place in the sun.
A few days later, the European Union rushed to make this information available to the American services to help them stifle any voice of resistance anywhere in the world and spread a new imperialist war on the pretext of fighting terrorism.
Two new legislative proposals are currently being prepared by the Commission.
The aim of this proposal is to contribute to the establishment of a European judicial area in civil matters.
The intention is not to propose a new action programme, but to contribute to the successful implementation of the existing action plans in this field, in particular, the Tampere conclusions.
This is why the support we suggest in these proposals is aimed not only at co-funding projects carried out by public and non-public institutions and organisations in the Member States, but also at funding Commission actions, such as actions aimed at ensuring the correct application of Community law in the civil field, which I am convinced will be of benefit to citizens.
I am talking about the amendments on the two new recitals proposed by the Committee on Budgets, the new recital proposed by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, and the amendments on the introduction of a definition of the term 'legal practitioner' .
With regard to the amendment on the specific objectives of the framework programme, I prefer to preserve the Commission' s initial proposal, because it very closely pursues the objectives set in the conclusions of the Tampere European Council.
Furthermore, several non-governmental organisations in this field already play a significant role, including in a very significant number of the candidate countries.
Mr President, in relation to the second report on the Schengen Information System, I believe that this is a key element in the operation of the area without frontiers.
This need is due, above all, to the limitations of the current SIS system.
The system only allows for the integration of 18 countries.
The two initiatives you are debating today confirm that the European Parliament and the Commission will henceforth have an increased role in relation to the development of the SIS II, both in this initial phase in the field of funding, and in the definition of the future architecture of the system and its specific operation.
These two initiatives are in line with the conclusions of the Justice and Home Affairs Council at the end of May that favoured funding the development of SIS II by means of the Community budget from 2002.
In accordance with the two initiatives aimed at creating a committee to assist the Commission in the development of the SIS II, the European Parliament will be kept systematically informed of work in progress, by means of the institutional mechanisms for informing Parliament within the framework of commitology.
This experience is absolutely essential and the implementation of commitology offers a well-established structural solution with a view to assisting the Commission in its new responsibilities relating to the development of the SIS II.
The Commission is also prepared to accept the European Parliament' s amendment on the delivery of a six-monthly report prepared by the Commission on the work on the development of the SIS II, not only to the Council but also to the European Parliament.
This is not only important with regard to the principle of transparency, but also with regard to the role the European Parliament will have to play within the framework of the legislative measures necessary for the development of the SIS II, which require that the European Parliament is kept fully informed of all work in this area.
Because, in fact, the two initiatives we are discussing today relate, above all, to the technical work involved in the implementation of the SIS II.
This implementation also requires the adoption, when the time comes, of legislative measures based on the appropriate bases in the Treaties, which the European Parliament will be consulted on.
The reason that the Commission cannot support the amendments on these points today is not that we disagree with their content, but simply that to me it seems premature to deal with them within the framework of the two initiatives which are aimed solely at the funding of the development of the SIS II.
We will have the opportunity to discuss these issues again and to make decisions, when the time comes, on the basis of legislative proposals.
Please allow me to conclude with the following positive statement: the development of the SIS II is a task which will concern us in the years to come and which must be achieved within a reasonable timescale that will allow the new Member States to be integrated into it and to thereby create the conditions for them to participate in our common area without frontiers.
The adoption of your opinion today, within the three months which have followed the delivery of the two initiatives, demonstrates the will and capacity of the European Parliament, of its Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs and its rapporteur, to contribute to the creation of the SIS II as soon as possible.
It is the second pillar in the legislative work whose purpose is to ratify, within the Community, the Aarhus Convention which was concluded in 1998.
The vote taken the week before last in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy led to an unfortunate and illogical conclusion, which must now be rectified in plenary session so that we can correct a situation which is embarrassing from the point of view of the Parliament's reputation.
In my proposal, the right of appeal is restricted solely to those whose rights are infringed by a decision, so that appeal is not used with deliberately vexatious intent.
The opportunity to express an opinion will not automatically imply the right of appeal.
In addition, I have incorporated into the report some objectives which are pursuant to the Aarhus convention, which the Commission had either omitted from its proposal or simply forgotten.
In this way the report complies better with the spirit and objectives of the convention.
In particular, this applies to Item 5 of Article 6, and Article 8, of the Aarhus Convention.
Mr President, full, effective participation by the public in the decision-making process in environmental matters is necessary and we support it.
The directive upon which we are going to vote tomorrow seeks to bring Community law into line with the provisions of this Convention and to smooth the way for its ratification by the Community.
What these reports have in common is that the Commission' s proposals are based on what is known as the Aarhus Convention.
According to Article 9 of the same Convention - and this is something I want to emphasise - each country undertakes, within the framework of its own national legislation, to give the public concerned the opportunity, through the courts, to have the validity of the authorities' decisions tested.
May I congratulate the rapporteur on this important report - a crucial element of which is the definition of participation, ensuring that people can influence plans and programmes at different stages of the process and receive proper feedback so that they know that the issues they have raised have been dealt with seriously.
Mr President, to advocate transparency and public participation in drawing up environmental plans and programmes is a laudable objective, which we fully agree with.
This convention has been signed by the Community and by all the Member States, but has only been ratified by Italy or Denmark: it is therefore not in force.
In the case of cross-border projects, for example, it would be sensible to broaden the consultation to the public as a whole.
It is, therefore very important that, as a follow-up to the Aarhus Convention, the Commission has produced legislation on public access to environmental information, on public participation in certain plans, programmes and policies and on public access to justice.
I wish to congratulate the rapporteur for the work she has done on this proposal for a directive on public participation in drafting environmental plans and programmes, especially for having sought, by means of various amendments, to extend citizens' rights and to eliminate some ambiguities.
There you are: this authority must also take into clear consideration all the demands and comments of those who have to build, sell and create tourist, sporting and cultural concerns - in short, daily activities - in the environment.
In addition to this proposal on access to environmental information, there are other pieces of Community legislation which already incorporate the principle of the Aarhus Convention.
To reach that objective, our proposals have to be easy to put into practice, so that they may be smoothly implemented in the different administrative systems of the Member States.
The question whether participation in decision-taking should aim at the public at large or the "public concerned" is a key point, and it has been addressed by a number of Members who have just spoken.
This proposal is aimed at extending the rights of citizens.
By defining the "public concerned", we are focusing the attention of the competent authorities on the need to take account of those citizens most directly affected.
The definition will confirm both the right to express a view and the right to be heard.
That would be difficult with a more general definition of the public.
The inclusion of NGOs within the definition of the "public concerned" will ensure that a more general public view may be taken into account.
There have been no problems raised as a result of people having been excluded by the use of the definition - at least no major problems.
In short, this approach will give those affected by new developments the right to influence decisions which will not just affect their environment but which may also affect their economic and social conditions.
Amendment No 26 seeks to extend considerably the scope of Article 1, so as to cover plans and programmes not only in the environmental field but also in other sectors.
In particular, for plans and programmes in other sectors that may have significant environmental effects, Directive 2001/42 on strategic environmental assessment already incorporates measures of particular relevance.
Amendment No 9 introduces public participation concerning policies in its heading, but the text does not contain operational provisions in this respect.
Not only the Community but all Member States have signed the Aarhus Convention and so already have to take into account the soft-law provisions.
The Commission is however considering possible further legislative proposals in relation to the third Aarhus pillar on access to justice.
The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 15, 18, 25, 28 and 29.
In addition, Amendments Nos 9, 13, 14, 23 and 27 can be accepted in part and Amendments Nos 4, 5, 10 and 17 in principle.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 16, 20, 21 and 22.
Only once the frameworks are established can public participation in decision-making become a fully integrated administrative practice.
The debate is closed.
Directive 85/611/EEC on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investments in transferable securities (UCITS) with a view to regulating management companies and simplified prospectuses [7551/1/2001 - C5-0296/2001 - 1998/0243(COD)] II.
As for UCITS-1, the Council wholly or partially approved 20 of Parliament' s 24 amendments.
However, Parliament considered that OTC derivatives could be employed more broadly, but according to stringent criteria.
The 1985 directive created the so-called UCITS Contact Committee which was set up to advise the Commission.
In my opinion, these are better tackled in a wider context.
What I do want to say is that, in my group' s opinion, a balance has been achieved between giving greater opportunities to management bodies and, therefore, greater opportunities to investors and the protection, the caution, that must be present in any discussion of such delicate matters.
Parliament wanted to send a message to the Commission.
We have therefore, limited our amendments to one - which I personally am not in favour of, although I will be voting for it - which consists of creating a 'grandfather' clause, in other words, creating a transitional period so that currently existing bodies have additional time in which to raise their capital.
We support the two amendments he has tabled.
Indeed, I would go as far to say that by insisting on call-back, which was not a phrase which appeared in Parliament's second resolution on this subject after the Stockholm Council, we risk calling into question our bona fides in the lengthy negotiations which some of us have undertaken with Mr Bolkestein.
I believe that UCITS managers should be subject to capital requirements, but I do not believe those contained in the directive are sufficiently risk-sensitive.
I am also concerned that this formulation of the directive will produce an uneven market opening, leaving the market closed in one Member State and open in the other 14.
But I have been persuaded by the rapporteur and our esteemed shadow rapporteur not to table amendments on these defects because we are very keen to get these two directives on the statute book to modernise the framework for a unit trust and UCITS in the European Union.
Mr President, I refer to the common position on Directive 1998/242 and the capital requirements that it will impose on investment management firms.
I am relieved that the Council has reduced slightly the capital requirements set by this Parliament at first reading and has set a top limit of EUR 10 million.
Incidentally, the largest and most successful firms in America and in the world - Fidelity is a good example - are exactly of this type.
The common position provides for the Commission to report on this matter within five years of entry into force of the directive.
Mr President, while, in many areas, the European legislation which we produce here is often openly criticised - quite rightly - we should recognise that the 1985 directive on undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities was, for once, a masterpiece.
It has also become an example for legislation on a world scale.
Since it entered into force in 1989, not only have the assets of the UCITSs increased dramatically, but also cross-border trade has developed very strongly.
Also in this field there are acquired rights, which it would be unfair to modify in a backdated fashion.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has finally expressed its preference for a clause which is restricted in time.
Mr President, I therefore hope that the House will vote in favour of this restricted clause.
On behalf of my staff - about whom Mr Schmidt had some extremely kind words to say - I thank the rapporteur, and the Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for their extremely constructive approach on these important files.
The common positions are crucial elements for delivering the FSAP - the financial services action plan - on time, in other words, by the year 2003 for an integrated European Union for securities markets and 2005 overall.
We would much prefer a single deadline for both, that is, 2005 - the date of the conclusion of the financial services action plan, which we think would be more logical.
However, in a spirit of compromise and because we must now lay this matter to rest after twelve years of discussion, and in recognition of the efforts this Parliament has undertaken, also considering the last amendment of the rapporteur with would shorten the grandfathering period foreseen in Amendment No 1, the Commission will, in the end, support Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3.
So let us agree on Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3.
I believe the vote will be taken tomorrow and I hope we can now agree to Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3 and to the proposals as such.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, according to the International Monetary Fund, the world experienced 120 monetary crises between 1975 and 2000.
A monetary crisis is defined as the depreciation of a currency by more than 25% in one year.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has commissioned me to produce this own-initiative report.
I have experienced some difficulties with the rules laid down by the Bureau of our Parliament.
My report was too long, as if it was possible to deal with the complexity of international monetary relations in five pages.
My humble report, and the motion for a resolution, will certainly not inspire a similar debate.
The motion for a resolution is restricted to certain essential issues.
In 2000, the private sector transferred about twenty times more resources to the developing countries than the World Bank and the other multilateral banks.
The international financial institutions must become truly universal.
The monetary fund must become more democratic.
Common rules and standards should be applied on an international level.
We need a legal and judicial framework allowing for the rapid resolution of insolvency crises.
The private sector should be involved in the management of crises, in particular by means of the general application of collective action clauses.
This will allow a reduction in moral uncertainties and in the cost of restructuring programmes.
One of the conclusions of my report is that the Tobin tax will not work.
Nevertheless, I welcome the decision of the ECOFIN Council to invite the Commission to prepare a report on this issue which I hope will make the decision much more objective.
My report puts great stress on the need to settle the problem of third-world debt as soon as possible.
The London Agreement of 1953 laid down such provisions in favour of Germany.
This was the basis of the German post-war economic miracle.
This could also be the basis for a new economic partnership between all nations, the beginning of a true globalisation.
As you have just said, the IMF must become more democratic.
Mr President, thank you for your willingness to allow us this pleasure late in the evening.
I would like to emphasise again that I believe stability in financial markets to be a public good to which all citizens are entitled.
Despite that, there are still economic and social deficits and a lack of regulation and supervision.
The report points that out.
The introduction of the euro is a contribution to financial stability, and our financial system is better protected against external shocks, but we must move on, for the monetary union is only one contribution to stability in Europe and the world.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report.
That is why we are taking up an idea put forward by Jacques Delors, in this case that of an economic and social security council within the United Nations.
We would like the Commission and the Council to express their views on this issue at the Council to be held next spring in Barcelona.
Finally, with regard to capital flows - in particular exchange operations - I will say no more, personally, about the Tobin tax, but I will nevertheless continue to demand an in-depth debate on taxes which could discourage speculative assaults on the currencies of a number of countries.
Mr President, despite the flashy title of this report - 'How the international monetary system can be made to work better' - these insipid formulae are certainly not going to prevent future crises.
The only purpose of this report is to justify an economic system which is irrational, anarchic and socially unjust.
The only imaginable regulation is that which the most powerful impose on others, but they do so to their own benefit.
The rapporteur recognises that the risk of financial instability is inherent to the operation of the economy.
Mr President, the rapporteur deserves support in his endeavours to achieve greater financial stability.
There are many who believe that the introduction of a tax on global financial transactions could prevent future financial crises.
Second, we demand not simply a reform of the IMF, we require of the public authorities the moral obligation to create optimum balance between the free play of markets and the need for them to be regulated in accordance with the fundamental principle of the eco-social market economy, and to guarantee a balance between the public and private sectors in public rescue measures in times of crisis.
The response of the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank after 11 September was one of stability in the face of the crisis.
The Commission and the European Parliament have, by a majority, expressed their opposition to the Tobin tax, and the Liège resolutions include measures as correctives to globalisation.
So I also regret that the Social Democrats' Amendment No 10 reinterprets the actual Liège resolution by inserting the Tobin tax.
Mr President, I was astonished to read the briefing by Parliament' s Information Office, which presented the Goebbels report as follows: 'In a resolution on the operation of the International Monetary System, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is critical of the introduction of a Tobin tax on financial speculations' .
To start with, the resolution does not in any way speak in favour of, or against, the Tobin tax.
Capital movements and foreign exchange markets must be founded more on actual economic reality and must be directed towards long-term investments and financial stability by taking a number of measures, but also by adopting a more flexible stance with regard to developing countries.
In an amendment tabled by my group, a proposal has been formulated in an entirely neutral way that was also formulated in the ECOFIN Council.
That seems to be far more fruitful than another instance of polarisation concerning the method: yes or no to the Tobin tax.
In this way, those in favour of the Tobin tax can again endorse the objectives which are now actually on the agenda, and those against can be pleased about the fact that research can be carried out in a neutral way and that the objectives, namely, better management of capital movements and more opportunities for developing countries, can be achieved.
I would say that since the crises in Asia, we have made substantial progress.
There is also the International Monetary Fund itself, which has increased its capacity and is fine-tuning its instruments so that they will enable it to analyse, assess and oversee the stability of the financial system more efficiently.
You all know as well as I do that the Member States do not fully agree with this position but it is a point of view that the Commission takes seriously, as we do all references to the fight against the funding of terrorism.
You have also made an effective contribution by finalising the codecision procedure on the second directive on money laundering.
I think we will find it very difficult to formulate a meaningful policy in this area unless we clearly state our European positions as such at world level.
These two steps must be made in the same direction and at the same time.
And on these points, Parliament can be sure that the Commission will continue to make progress.
The debate is closed.
