Passenger compensation in the event of airline bankruptcy (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question by Brian Simpson, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, to the Commission on passenger compensation in the event of airline bankruptcy-B7-0210/2009).
It is worth noting that we have had 77 airline bankruptcies in the European Union since 2000 and, in the sad but likely event that some more may follow in this tough economic climate, we believe it is imperative that we use this question tonight to at least open up the debate now about how we can best protect consumers and air travellers in the European Union.
Here in the European Union and the European Parliament, we should be proud of our record on passenger rights.
We have seen the introduction of rights to assistance and tougher laws on ticket pricing transparency, as well as tough compensation measures in the package travel directive.
In fact, I believe we have covered most of the bases when it comes to consumer protection in aviation, but there is clearly a loophole here that needs to be closed.
It is an anomaly.
However, we also need to offer better protection to passengers when an airline goes bankrupt.
This detailed study explains in practical terms the consequences of bankruptcies and their impact on the 700 million or more passengers transported every year throughout the European Union.
The Commission is now continuing to analyse the various possible options on the basis of this study and is focusing in particular on the impact on consumers and on the air transport sector.
Along the same lines, in the coming weeks, the Commission will set in motion a wide-ranging public consultation process on passenger rights in the air transport sector.
Increasing ticket prices is not an option in the current situation, while the increase in service charges being applied by some low-cost companies may result in an even sharper drop in the number of passengers.
Therefore, we call on the Commission to work faster towards presenting a specific proposal; particularly because, as you pointed out, systems are already in place thanks to all manner of other legislation - including for people booking package travel - in the form of a guarantee fund and so on.
Finally, I should like to say that I am delighted to hear the Commissioner say we can expect a kind of general statement on passenger rights in the aviation sector.
I am also a member of the Committee on Transport and Tourism and I think it is very important that we have this issue on the agenda now.
As it stands, there is a gap in consumer protection where air passengers are concerned.
Although legislation adopted by the European Parliament provides sufficient guarantees and compensation for passengers, if, due to the fault of the airline, they are unable to take off on time on the planned route or have problems with luggage, this can only be guaranteed if the airline is not experiencing financial difficulties.
At a time of crisis we need a procedure which, on the one hand, will help passengers and, on the other, will not complicate the already difficult financial situation of airlines.
The collapse of SkyEurope, however, affected not only people at airports, but also 280 000 other clients who had bought tickets.
A formerly highly-regulated industry with costly air tickets has been transformed into a dynamic sector with services which, thanks to the affordable prices in the EU, are being used by ever greater numbers of passengers who, in former times, would not have been able to afford them.
The idea of introducing compulsory insurance against bankruptcy for airlines has already been proposed in the European Parliament in the recent past.
It is not acceptable that these passengers have no recourse if the airline they bought their ticket from goes bankrupt.
We all know that this crisis is worse that that which affected the sector after 11 September and that numerous airlines have gone bankrupt.
It is therefore essential that the European Commission - and I know, Vice-President, that you are aware of this - presents us with genuine solutions, as soon as possible, so that we can protect passengers if the airline they were due to fly with goes bankrupt, regardless of the means by which they booked their ticket. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, I am pleased with the question that we are debating today, but I think that it only covers one of the possible cases where a company ceases to operate: that of financial collapse or insolvency.
Over the years, the European Union has taken relevant actions in this area, and the measures adopted have ensured an increase in the level of consumer protection in areas such as package holiday services and passengers' rights.
In these cases, consumers become aware of the problems only when the flight is not operated as scheduled.
I believe that every person in Europe must have the choice to travel by air if he or she so wishes.
For this, you must admit that we need safe but low-cost airlines that are affordable for everyone.
Therefore, I would kindly ask the Commissioner to seriously consider this matter and come up with a viable solution as soon as possible. (PL) Madam President, Mr Tajani, about a month ago, a budget airline became insolvent, and the airline - SkyEurope - presented a bankruptcy petition.
This is a significant problem, which can be seen from the fact that 77 airlines have gone bankrupt around the world since 2000.
The European Parliament and the Commission have acted in unison to launch a set of initiatives in response to the crisis.
