European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion (debate) The next item is the report prepared by Mrs Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on a proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion (2010) - C6-0469/2007 -.
The European Year 2010 will play a significant role in the development of social Europe.
The European Year 2010 will give the European Union and the Member States the opportunity to renew their political commitment, and will stress that poverty and social exclusion have an impact on the social and economic development of the Union and on our citizens' dignity.
The European Year 2010 will also offer a platform for the debate on European values and on respect for these values as a key factor in developing public policies at both Union and Member State level.
It is our ambition that 2010 should be a milestone year for recognising the multidimensional nature of poverty and social exclusion.
The year 2010 will lay the foundations for effective structures of collective responsibility and for a fair redistribution of wealth.
Despite this, statistics show that 78 million people in the EU are below the poverty threshold, and the majority of these are children, women and the elderly.
In its resolution of 15 November 2007, Parliament emphasised that strengthening social cohesion and the elimination of poverty and social exclusion must become political priorities for the European Union.
The Commission's initiative to make 2010 the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion fits perfectly into this context and could make a significant contribution to directing political attention and encouraging widespread activities to further strengthen social protection and social integration.
The budget that has been allocated for this initiative - 17 million euro - is a record amount, but it is the implementation of projects on the national level that is a key element to making this initiative a success.
