In my view, this sets a precedent, further strengthening the role of the European Parliament.
This extension will allow the European Union’s relations with the Mediterranean region to be examined in the light of the European Council’s assessment of the strategic partnership for the Mediterranean and the Middle East in June 2005, of the Barcelona Process in the context of its tenth anniversary in 2005 and of the development of European neighbourhood policy over the same period.
This commitment was reiterated at the recent Euro-Mediterranean ministerial meeting in The Hague on 29 and 30 November 2004, which confirmed the centrality of the Barcelona Process, backed up by the European neighbourhood policy for the Mediterranean.
Those same objectives are also taken up in the European Union’s strategic partnership for the Mediterranean region and the Middle East.
More than ever, the Euro-Mediterranean partnership is an essential and special regional framework for dialogue and cooperation between the two shores of the Mediterranean.
The meeting in The Hague was the second ministerial meeting following the meeting held in Naples and preceding the one to be held in Luxembourg on 30 and 31 May 2005.
In this context, preparations have already begun for the tenth anniversary of the Barcelona Process, which will be marked in Barcelona in November 2005.
Ministers have also agreed to undertake an overall review of the process and declare 2005 the year of the Mediterranean.
So far as the European Union’s political and security dialogue with its Mediterranean partners is concerned, the Hague ministerial meeting confirmed the progress that has been made with cooperation in counter-terrorism, regional security and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, as well as European security and defence policy.
Partnership measures like the holding of a diplomatic seminar in Malta, cooperation in the field of civil defence and disaster management, or the Euro-Mediterranean Study Commission or EuroMeSCo network of foreign policy institutes, are making a substantial contribution to bringing the Euro-Mediterranean partners closer together.
In like vein, the creation of the Anna Lindh Euro-Mediterranean Foundation for the Dialogue of Cultures is a key step in the implementation of the Barcelona Process’s social, cultural and human partnership.
Mr President, I believe this is an historic moment, especially as far as the Middle East conflict is concerned.
The European Parliament has always been a strong supporter of the Barcelona Process.
I wish to express my gratitude, especially to many individual Members who are enthusiastic supporters of Euromed relations, for your role as a driving force behind the Union's active involvement in this region.
I have had a great personal interest in this region ever since I became aware of how crucial the peace process is for the Middle East.
As my colleague has just said, there is a real moment of hope, although we know that the process is a fragile one.
I told them that we have to go on and that both sides have to consolidate this new path to peace in the Middle East, especially by seizing the opportunities of, on the one hand, the platform – the Quartet – and, on the other hand, the roadmap.
A successful disengagement in Gaza is a priority for all of us.
In addition to the Mediterranean partnership, the tenth anniversary of which we will celebrate this year, the European neighbourhood policy, under which we have already adopted five action plans for the southern Mediterranean countries, is also important.
The European neighbourhood policy means emphasising our common bonds through geography, history, trade, migration and culture by bringing these countries, as a ring of friends, closer to the European Union.
Mr Hariri was one of the main architects of the agreements that brought the long-awaited end to the civil war in Lebanon.
He was a man committed to peace and reconciliation, to the reconstruction of the war-torn country and also to the promotion of cooperation and stability in the region.
The Commission has also attached the utmost importance to a full and prompt implementation by all parties of UN Security Council Resolution&#160;1559.
This resolution calls for free and fair elections without foreign interference, the withdrawal of all foreign forces from Lebanon, the disbanding and disarmament of all militias and the extension of government control to all Lebanese territories.
As we have already mentioned, 2005 will be year of EU-Mediterranean relations.
In March, the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly will meet for the second time in Cairo.
In November, we will celebrate the tenth anniversary of the partnership, and the Commission is already in the process of preparing a communication to the European Parliament and the Council to mark the occasion, containing specific proposals.
The first is to increase the impact of our policies by contributing to the pursuit of reform, peace and stability in the region.
These are the questions that affect the day-to-day life of our citizens, and our partnership should address them.
We should reflect on how we can best make use of the Barcelona Process to contribute to this new momentum in the Middle East peace process, as well as to safeguard peace once we have it.
I think we should use this experience to build democracies and support these countries' reforms: what we Europeans have to do is to try to encourage reforms, not impose them.
Together we could organise schemes for student exchanges: I think this is crucial, if we consider what Europe and the United States have done since the war and how important that has been.
We should also implement European neighbourhood action plans and commitments on the social integration of migrants.
The broader Middle East and North African initiative is a very interesting one.
We want to work towards joint solutions with our partners in the Mediterranean region, your personal commitment to which, Commissioner, I regard as very commendable.
To President Bush, who is visiting Europe from the United States, we say this: let us make a joint effort to ensure that Israel can exist within secure borders and Palestine can exist within secure borders.
Its former Prime Minister, Rafiq Hariri, has been assassinated along with his bodyguards, and we must find out who is responsible.
This too is a significant contribution to dialogue, partnership and peace in the Mediterranean. &#160;&#160; .
The Mediterranean is now our priority, because that is where the greatest challenges lie regarding peace, security, the fight against terrorism, development, respect for rights, protection of the environment and positive management of immigration.
We are encouraged, then, by the resumption of dialogue between the Israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority following the presidential elections in Palestine.
In this context, we appreciate the role played by Egypt, but at the same time we are troubled by the internal situation of that country where, precisely in the past few days, Mr&#160;Ayman&#160;Nour, a member of the Egyptian Parliament, was arrested and detained.
The Assembly is taking its first steps: it is the first time that it is meeting outside Europe, in Cairo, and we hope that it can hold an extraordinary meeting, presided by you, President&#160;Borrell&#160;Fontelles, precisely on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the Barcelona Process. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, while I fully agree with the text of the joint resolution which will shortly be put to the vote in this House, I would like to join you, Commissioner, in stressing two points about this text: one concerning the resumption of dialogue between the parties to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the other about the situation created in Lebanon by the assassination of Rafiq Hariri.
So far as the new prospects opened up between Israel and Palestine are concerned, I want to repeat what I have already said many times in this House.
My colleagues have referred to the despicable and abhorrent assassination of Rafiq&#160;Hariri, following which a question mark now hangs over that part of the world, just when a glimmer of light was appearing in the Middle East that we want to foster and see grow.
The Commission also has several ways forward, which it has set out in a communication in the form of 10 extremely precise recommendations.
I believe that appropriate tools, the national action plans, the creation of the human rights subcommittees as part of this process, that is to say the new neighbourhood policy, are really needed to help us to implement those 10 recommendations, which as you said, Commissioner, go beyond the purely intergovernmental approach in that part of the world.
That is what the strength, the potential power of this Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly and also of the Euromed civil society platform is all about, because we are all aware that our ambitious aims of democracy and development in that region can only come about with the deep commitment of those societies themselves.
We know that all our policies and all our aspirations depend first and foremost on the energy of the societies themselves to free themselves from complex situations that destroy freedom.
I believe that is what we must … &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I should like to point out three areas in which the Commissioner’s statements struck me as vague or imprecise.
In fact, that self-same Resolution 1559 stipulates the disbanding of the Lebanese Shiite terrorist organisation Hezbollah, which, armed to the teeth and trained by its patrons Syria and Iran, operates from the south of the country against Israel.
The social, economic, cultural and human partnership between the two sides of the Mediterranean is proceeding on a foundation of uncertainty and contradictions.
The Barcelona Process has moved forward slowly, in particular with regard to the implementation of the MEDA programme, whose pace has quickened only in recent years.
The European Union needs, at last, to take on a more powerful political role in order to bring about a genuine climate of cooperation, growth and peace in the area.
Otherwise, this tenth anniversary of the Barcelona Conference, this 2005 dedicated to the Mediterranean, is likely to be seen just as a year marked by our weakness. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I had the privilege of representing this House at the funeral of Yasser Arafat.
Regrettably, the threat of terrorism remains all too real in much of the region.
However, before doing so, Hamas must not only renounce violence, but also hand in its weapons to the Palestine security forces.
I believe these two issues are of vital importance. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the Arab world and the countries of the southern and eastern Mediterranean are changing – and this change is long overdue.
We are pleased that Turkey, for example, has signalled its intention of playing a more prominent role in the dialogue with the Arab world, notably on the issue of women's rights and democratisation.
Furthermore, despite all the problems, the emergence of a younger generation of leaders – in Morocco, Jordan, Bahrain and indeed Syria, for example – has created the opportunity for a cautious opening towards democracy.
The issue of women's rights in Morocco and the debate about the introduction of a divorce law in Jordan are just two examples that I would like to highlight.
Let me conclude with the Middle East conflict.
A solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict will help to ensure that hopefully, the spurious excuse that this conflict makes democracy impossible can no longer be used in future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ten years ago in Barcelona, the European Union and its neighbours in the Mediterranean region launched an ambitious programme which sought to create an area of stability, peace and economic progress in the region by means of closer, mutual understanding.
The Commission could and should consider links between the Foundation and other more minor Euro-Mediterranean satellite cultural centres located throughout the area, which can equally spread the same messages of friendship, mutual understanding and peace among the peoples of the Euro-Mediterranean region, and which serve as cultural, research and training centres, including for the many immigrants in that area.
In short, we wish to obtain the necessary impetus from the ups and downs of these first ten years in order to look ahead with renewed confidence. &#160;&#160; – Sometimes the measures adopted by the European Union as regards the Mediterranean, were not always enough to render the Euro-Mediterranean policy a positive and concrete one.
A clear example for me is the illegal/irregular immigration tragedy that exists in an alarming way in the Mediterranean.
Without any doubt, the Barcelona process was fundamental so that the Euro-Mediterranean policy is given the due importance.
However, it may be the case that, as happened with the Lisbon agenda, the time is ripe for this process to be reviewed so that, in the first place, we gauge how successful we were in achieving our aims successfully, as in the case of the creation of a free industrial trade area in the Mediterranean.
In my opinion, we should revive this process, if need be. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I have several comments would like to make, having had the opportunity to visit the Middle East with the Commissioner just before the Sharm el Sheikh summit.
However, we also know that this will only work in the long term if the Middle East is able to solve its own problems, because they are the cause of, or an alibi for, many others.
That is why the present situation in the Middle East is immensely important, especially since I believe there is a real chance, for the first time, of reaching an agreement.
This includes bringing clear influence to bear on Iran and Syria in order to stop Hezbollah from wrecking the peace process from outside.
I do realise, Commissioner, that this House has always taken a very critical line on this issue.
In this way, the cycle of violence can be broken, which is essential if the Israeli leaders are to secure the necessary support from their own people by being able to say to them that the peace process means no more terrorism.
Prompt action is therefore required. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the assassination of&#160;Rafiq&#160;Hariri in Lebanon has reawakened the argument surrounding the EU-Syria association agreement and the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1559, just when the Bush and Chirac governments are making peace with each other around the idea of a free and sovereign Lebanon.
The European Parliament’s position on the sovereign right of nations to self-determination has always been very clear.
It has consistently rejected any form of overt or covert occupation, be it in Palestine, Iraq or other countries of the world.
The question is crucial.
Once it is signed, whether we like it or not, this agreement will inevitably be in the spotlight, and we, the European Union, will be forced to justify our idea of European foreign policy and its democratic basis to public opinion.
At the same time, the Israel-Palestine conflict has blocked the overall development dynamic by capturing all the attention in the region.
Tools are in place: association agreements, a neighbourhood policy and in particular the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, which is a great democratic step forward in this process.
There is also the establishment of the Anna Lindh Foundation to encourage dialogue between cultures and civilisations.
All these projects are making progress, but two things are essential if they are to be effective.
The second is to establish a just and lasting peace between the Israelis and Palestinians.
The present circumstances are favourable but very fragile.
All these projects are converging towards greater peace, security and shared prosperity, but much too slowly.
Europe has understood that there is no war of civilisations, but that an alliance of civilisations is necessary, because after dismantling a wall in the East, Europe now has to build a bridge to the South. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, if in the past Braudel, the important French historian, highlighted in his work the political and economic importance of the Mediterranean to Europe, international and regional developments over recent years are making the Mediterranean an area of strategic importance to the future of the European Union.
It is true that Euro-Mediterranean cooperation, as shaped in Barcelona in 1995, has become embroiled in the Arab-Israeli conflict and has not brought about the expected results.
Today, the European Union should, alongside the implementation of the roadmap for Palestine, take the initiative, within the framework of the Quartet, to design a roadmap for peace between Israel and Syria.
We now need a holistic approach to peace, democracy, security and stability in the Middle East.
Syria, like Israel, should respect the decisions of the UN Security Council on Lebanon and withdraw its troops.
May I close by saying that the European Commission and the Council are being called on to follow up the initiative of the former President of the European Commission, Romano Prodi, who in 2002 created the initiative for dialogue between the peoples and the cultures of the Euro-Mediterranean area, and the relevant proposals which the Committee of Wise Men took at that time. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I think it is very important that we are holding this debate today in the European Parliament.
The first point concerns Euro-Mediterranean policy and the situation in the Middle East.
The second point concerns the countries surrounding Israel and Palestine; the new situation in Lebanon following Hariri's murder, relations with Syria, which require attention and, without doubt, the role of Egypt, which has always played a stabilising role.
We had the results of the elections, which give a full map of what is happening in this country and, of course, we need to approach our relations with Iraq one step at a time, with the first important element of our assistance being in shaping the new constitution.
Finally, having thanked the Commissioner for the efforts she has made for Euro-Mediterranean policy, can we please all agree that the European Union needs to be present in the Mediterranean, especially in the Middle East, politically as well as economically? &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the Barcelona Process is about to celebrate its tenth birthday and peace in the Middle East has never seemed closer.
As Mr Javier Solana stressed in June 2004, this partnership is strategic for Europe, always assuming that Europe gives itself the resources to match its ambitions.
First of all, the Barcelona Process must be the first pillar of the European neighbourhood policy, in as much as that policy proposes going much further than mere cooperation, extending to a degree of political and economic integration.
Finally, these objectives presuppose that Europe makes its Mediterranean policy a budget priority. &#160;&#160; Mr President, three years ago we were wondering what to do with Iraq.
The price we all paid was enormous.
Let us support democracy in Palestine by guiding Hamas towards participation in fair elections.
Let us directly finance 200 doctors in the West Bank and let us equip and maintain 100 primary schools in the same area with our full support, clearly acting under the European flag.
But let us also separate Syria from Hizbollah, its terrorist companion, with no artificial distinctions between military and social links.
In Parliament, as in Amman, we all consider peace to be a desirable and necessary factor in prosperity.
Accordingly, in this Year of the Mediterranean, and in years to come, the EU must have a clearly defined, practical role.
Economic and regional integration into more globalised markets, such as the EU, must be guaranteed, and the 720&#160;million inhabitants of the Euro-Med area therefore represent a more significant market than China, a fact that should be taken into account by businesses looking to make investments.
Education and training are key elements in creating an industrial workforce.
The Commission should therefore seek to support measures that encompass the countries of the MEDA Programme and thus open up new horizons.
We therefore hope that the EU can be the driving force behind the whole of this process. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Mediterranean is a priority area for the European Union.
For instance, greater political and economic liberalisation and improved education will ensure greater stability in those countries.
The Barcelona Process is based on the principle of mutual benefit.
On the one hand, Member States are primarily keen to tackle issues such as immigration, terrorism and human rights.
The solution is, of course, to address the gap between the Union and the Mediterranean region.
Our Mediterranean partners are asking for more money in order to produce these results.
It is the tenth anniversary of the Barcelona Process, there are peaceful developments between Israel and Palestine in the Middle East – something that would have seemed impossible only a few months ago – and President Yushchenko is here with us today – from an eastern part of the neighbourhood where democracy and human rights are increasingly being asserted.
That is why it is important that we, in this European Parliament, make a positive contribution to this neighbourhood policy process.
In other words, it is a productive dialogue, and one which will undoubtedly have a positive effect on all the other neighbours too.
That means that we must be prepared to support this process on our own initiative.
What has broken out is peace; anti-corruption measures are now in place, and we Europeans should support this process.
Mr Solana's comments are unacceptable in this form.
In this context, the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly is an important step, since we all know that democracy is also a form of apprenticeship.
Apprenticeship in parliamentary government, in parliamentary democracy, takes place first of all in this context of exchange.
You have been entrusted with an important task, one which I might almost go so far as to describe as democratic education, but also education for peace and dialogue, since this parliamentary assembly brings together those who today are enemies or perhaps were yesterday.
Another point that has been addressed at length and is of concern to the Council is the situation in Lebanon.
Since the assassination of former Prime Minister Hariri, the internal situation in Lebanon has become extremely delicate.
We also know and have to recognise, however, that the forces in support of such a development are probably still very much a minority and are very weak.
I would also like to say a word about Hezbollah.
I do not believe there is any ambiguity, and we all know that Hezbollah is politically active, since it has members in the Lebanese parliament as well as being involved in other activities.
I therefore believe we must monitor this Hezbollah question very closely.
We also have to look at Hezbollah’s attitude to the present situation in Lebanon.
I have to say that the threats made by some leading members of Hezbollah concerning the stability of Lebanon do not inspire confidence and we shall therefore probably have to take other measures in this regard.
So far as Syria is concerned, I would simply like to say that there was at least one positive point that gave us hope when, after long negotiations and long discussions, Syria agreed to the non-proliferation clause.
That was a glimmer of hope that we could persuade Syria to adopt a more responsible attitude in keeping with the principles upheld by the European Union and the international community.
Concerning the peace process, I believe we are all agreed that it is essential if we are to give fresh impetus to the Barcelona Process and to dialogue with the Mediterranean region.
I therefore agree with Mr&#160;Morillon when he says that Europe must make plans in preparation for the time when peace has been reached.
Reference has been made to the thousands of people who try to cross the Mediterranean and perish in the attempt.
I therefore believe we must work with our partners on the other side of the Mediterranean to fight against these criminal practices and activities.
These matters are all included in the Hague programme, which also brings this very issue of immigration into the new neighbourhood policy approach.
I therefore believe that our approach to immigration, especially with our Mediterranean neighbours, must form part of a much more global approach.
It is true that we have to do everything so that this small, first step of the peace process can be consolidated, and it must be consolidated on both sides.
The other side must make an effort too.
I gave both leaders this clear message.
Only when the economy starts to flourish can there be a chance for real peace in the Middle East.
As Mr Brok and Mr Laschet mentioned, we now have to do everything to support this peace process, including politically, within the Quartet.
This is important in order for the process to continue.
The Gaza disengagement will be very difficult.
On the contrary, we take it very seriously.
For us, it is very important to show Lebanon that now, the first steps towards a democratic process must be consolidated by elections.
We are currently considering different options, including election observation and support, but negotiations in that regard are still ongoing with the Lebanese.
This is an excellent opportunity to use the momentum that is there to move ahead with the peace process, our neighbourhood policy, the Barcelona Process and the new American engagement to aim for the same goals.
At the end of 2004, EUR&#160;1002&#160;million was committed in the Mediterranean and the Middle East, including EUR&#160;160&#160;million for Iraq.
I am ready to join my colleagues from the Council and Mr Solana in a Troika and go to the region to support the Iraqis as soon as a new government is in place.
Yesterday, a new international coordination conference involving the Americans was announced.
That is an excellent idea for creating a stable and prosperous Iraq in the future. &#160;&#160; I have received six motions for resolutions from six political groups to wind up the debate in accordance with Rule 103 (2) of the Rules of Procedure(1).
The debate is closed.
As in earlier years, it launched the largest number of initiatives: three initiatives on particular topics and ten initiatives on the human rights situation in various countries.
The sixty-first session of the Commission on Human Rights comes in a context that is different in a number of respects.
At EU level, the recent appointment of a personal representative of the Secretary-General and High Representative for Human Rights underlines the importance the EU attaches to strengthening its human rights policy.
In the context of the United Nations, the publication of the High-Level Panel’s report ‘A more secure world: Our shared responsibility’ triggered a wide-ranging debate on the reform of the UN and of the Commission on Human Rights in particular.
While the views expressed on the recommendations relating to the Commission on Human Rights differ, everyone is agreed in stressing the need to give it more teeth and, in general, to strengthen the human rights dimension in the United Nations.
In this new context, the momentum created by the debate on the Commission on Human Rights, together with the hope to which the recent developments in the Middle East have given rise, gives us reason to believe that the sixty-first session of the Commission on Human Rights may make a significant contribution to progress in human rights.
The European Union in fact believes that the Commission on Human Rights is the main United Nations forum for promoting and safeguarding human rights in the world, and it intends to continue to play an active part and to cooperate with other regional groups there.
Important as the EU’s activities within the Commission on Human Rights may be, this is nevertheless not the only means at its disposal for promoting human rights.
Joint positions on human rights, cooperation with other organisations, such as the Council of Europe or the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and the human rights dialogues with China and Iran are also ways of promoting human rights.
The EU will be presenting thematic resolutions on religious intolerance, the death penalty and the rights of the child.
It considers the Commission on Human Rights to be an appropriate framework for promoting this objective.
The European Union has decided to present resolutions on the human rights situation in Myanmar, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the Israeli settlements in the occupied territories.
Talks on other initiatives to be presented by the EU will continue in the forthcoming meetings of the Working Group on Human Rights, which will be held prior to the session of the Commission on Human Rights.
Apart from its own initiatives, the EU intends to cooperate with any third countries that may launch initiatives for the promotion of human rights, especially in the fight against terrorism or in the context of transnational corporations.
As in the past, it will seek to encourage the spirit of dialogue that is essential for seeking joint solutions to common problems.
The European Union hopes it can count on the support of Parliament, whose resolution is far more ambitious than our programme for the sixty-first session of the Commission on Human Rights.
The Union shares the concerns expressed by Parliament and I can assure you that the issues you have raised will be taken into account in our discussions and in our decisions.
It is important that the EU prepares its strategy well and Parliament's resolution and debate serve to stimulate those efforts.
It is my view that such resolutions are a vital aspect of the UNCHR's work, in serving to draw attention to human rights violations and in establishing special rapporteurs who are mandated to investigate and report on such violations.
It might be expected that, at the very least, the 53 States serving as members of the UNCHR would have seen fit to issue standing invitations to the rapporteurs whose mandates they have helped to create: in fact, only 19 States nominated as UNCHR members in 2005 have done so, eight of which the current EU members.
This is a concern which deserves greater attention in the framework of the European Union's political dialogue with third countries and in our relations with the office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and other organisations.
The European Union is reflecting on the country and thematic initiatives which it will bring at the 61st UNCHR and the European Commission is playing a full role in that process.
We must concentrate our energies on rallying support for our initiatives amongst like-minded countries and the wider membership of the UNCHR in an effort to avert further defeats.
I would emphasise, however, that the likelihood of defeat does not, in itself, constitute an overriding reason to refrain from running a resolution: as human rights defenders constantly attest, the very act of tabling a draft resolution sends a clear signal to the government and people of the country concerned.
I note, for example, that the human rights clause contained in the Cotonou Agreement is not solely concerned with the domestic human rights policies pursued by third countries but extends also to respect for human rights in the context of their international policies.
We must also send out a clear message as to our continuing commitment to supporting the High Commissioner for Human Rights and her office as a critical part of the UN human rights machinery.
Funding is one part of that and I am pleased to report that a range of projects with the office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights are in the pipeline this year.
I shall conclude by underlining the Commission's intention to extend every assistance to the Luxembourg Presidency during what will undoubtedly be a challenging year for the EU in the UNCHR. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the annual sessions of the Commission on Human Rights are always a major event for the international and universal promotion of human rights.
This cause is fundamental to us, yet we have to be mindful of the public’s consternation at the presence on the Commission on Human Rights of countries that are known as the biggest violators of human rights and that are in fact among the worst dictatorships in the world, such as Cuba, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Zimbabwe and China, along with others that have serious human rights problems, such as the Russian Federation, and we all know that this does not apply solely to Chechnya.
In light of our European tradition in promoting human rights, we must set out a very clear strategy if we are to work in this context.
Unfortunately, over half of the world’s population still does not have the chance to have a Parliament such as this one, and does not enjoy freedom of social or political organisation, and this continues to be a major priority, in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Pact on Civil and Political Rights.
Secondly, I wish to draw attention to two new, modern-day threats to human rights.
The fight against terrorism must not violate human rights – we agree on this – but we must also bear in mind that terrorism, by definition and being a very present threat, is one of the biggest causes of fear, one of the biggest causes of insecurity and, in itself, an extremely violent attack on human rights.
The dark side of globalisation – the exploitation of children, child labour, the trafficking of women, organ trafficking, the trafficking of human beings – must also be treated as a new threat to human rights.
I feel that it is on these axes that we must focus our attention.
We reserve the right to a final vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, human rights are an area of particular concern to the European Parliament.
As preparations for the forthcoming session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights get under way, I should like to ask the Commission and the Council to ensure that the European Parliament’s delegation is fully involved in the work and negotiations in Geneva.
This leads me to call on the Council and the Commission to take full account of the specific content of the recommendations contained in this report.
Parliament’s report goes beyond recommendations addressed solely to countries in the developing world, and focuses on human rights themselves.
Reproductive health rights are crucial when it comes to combating AIDS and guaranteeing other human rights.
We are in favour of combating not only religious discrimination but also discrimination for reasons of gender or sexual orientation. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, the annual session of the Commission on Human Rights in Geneva is an extremely important opportunity for the countries of the world to meet and discuss human rights.
This phenomenon is extremely important to the European Parliament, and so we very much welcome this cooperation between the Commission, the Council and ourselves.
This could perhaps be done in conjunction with the UN overhaul in September.
For example, it is completely absurd that a rogue State such as Libya has chaired the session on human rights.
This does not lend any credibility to our work.
The meetings also need to be better structured, exactly as my fellow MEP, Mr&#160;Ribeiro e Castro said.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe finds this regrettable and would very much like to see resolutions on those very countries – Iran and China – because they are the worst offenders when it comes to the infringement of human rights.
There is a large number of topics and countries that could be discussed, and the excellent report by Mrs&#160;Flautre, which has our support, states Parliament’s priorities.
The three subjects that the EU is to pursue are very good, and have our support.
The courage of these people is essential to our learning of human rights abuses, and it is thus a prerequisite for the session in Geneva.
For that reason, it is our duty not to forget the work they do. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, you rightly referred to the many initiatives taken by the European Union at the sixtieth session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
I agree, but I also remember what Shirin Ebadi said following that sixtieth session.
Those words have stayed with me and I believe we must also remember that at that sixtieth session a number of countries, among them China, Zimbabwe and Cuba, took extremely strong initiatives with a view to stripping the Commission on Human Rights of its substance.
The European Union must be particularly vigilant in the face of such extremely damaging strategies on the part of some countries.
If prison conditions really were the measure of a society’s level of civilisation, then the West would be in a terrible state in view of situations such as Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo.
In this case it is not enough to ask the United States to clarify the situation.
The law must be equal for all and no&#160;one must have any kind of international immunity.
We recently voted to start negotiations with Turkey, and thereby contracted a debt which we must honour: namely, to continue monitoring, day after day, how the situation develops – not just in the legislative field but also in everyday policy – with regard to respect for human rights, in particular those of the Kurdish population, political recognition and a commitment to finding a solution to this conflict, and also recognition of the Republic of Cyprus and withdrawal of troops from the northern part of the island.
These issues must be explicitly set out in the report.
I refer to the liberalist economic and financial policies which force, for example, 800&#160;million people to live on less than a dollar a day and deny tens of millions of people access to treatment for AIDS.
In the Amazon, where 20% of the entire planet’s freshwater flows every day, tens of thousands of people in Manaus have no access to drinking water because the service has been privatised.
This is why, as I found no trace of it in the report, I have tabled an amendment to rectify this omission, and hope that it will be received favourably by my fellow Members from all political parties. &#160;&#160; An excellent report, which reflects the criticism of the current state of human rights in the world.
The report also includes documents guaranteeing citizens their rights.
Basic human rights include political rights.
Mr President, I am talking about the undignified position of the non-attached members in this Parliament.
Mr President, I was very aggrieved when the President of the European Parliament did not have a seat at the table for the negotiations with President Bush.
I was very pleased that the situation was rectified, because it was not just matter of the personal position of Mr Borrell, it was a matter of the position of the President of the European Parliament.
I therefore ask that you do not see my contribution as relating to individual people but to our voters, who are entitled to respect. &#160;&#160; Mr President, high standards of human rights are part of the of the EU, both internally and internationally, in its foreign and development policies.
I welcome the bulk of this resolution, in particular the defence of the state's duty to protect its citizens against terrorism and the need to continue dialogue on human rights with countries such as Iran, whose track record is appalling with the recent execution of a 16-year-old girl for sexual misdemeanours.
I feel strongly that we must encourage countries and their leaders who are not totally beyond the pale to move in the right direction and reward them for it. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the violation of human rights in Belarus, one of the countries that shares borders with the European Union.
According to a report on human rights violations in 2004, published on the Internet by the independent Belarussian civil initiative Charter 97, approximately 1 500 people were detained or arrested for political reasons in Belarus last year.
The political regime of President Lukashenko exerts control over the media and violates basic human rights, civil rights and political freedoms.
The Belarussian people are denied the right to independent information as well as the right of political parties to conduct their affairs freely and the right to freedom of assembly.
Everything indicates that the situation in that country will become more critical as a result of the presidential elections that must take place no later than September 2006.
The European Parliament must not resign itself to the creation of a new curtain on the borders of the European Union, this time separating a democratic Europe in which citizens can develop freely from an authoritarian Europe in which political regimes violate basic human rights.
We must remember that the flag of the European Union has become a symbol of freedom and hope for a better world in Belarus.
The heart of Europe now beats in Minsk, and the fate of democracy on the European continent is being decided there. &#160;&#160; Mr President, fortunately, there are other bodies, apart from the UN Commission on Human Rights, that are concerned with this problem.
My second comment concerns effectiveness.
I note, Mr President, that you proposed that we should actually restrict the number of subjects and countries concerned, and that seems quite sensible to me.
Allow me to add two further subjects which we could include, namely freedom of expression, because it is an essential catalyst in the development of human rights, and slavery in all its forms.
As for the countries involved – Korea, Burma and Palestine – it seems to me essential to add to the list the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which causes the equivalent of a tsunami every three months, with 3.6&#160;million deaths since 1992 in an atmosphere of general indifference, and finally Darfur, which is really starting to be the ‘forgotten man’ in this context.
We could concentrate our efforts on these five subjects and these five countries. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the forthcoming session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights represents an opportunity to tackle some outstanding issues.
Last year, for example, during its 60th session, the UN Human Rights Commission rejected the resolutions on Zimbabwe, which the European Union helped to submit, as well as the resolution on China.
China is the world leader when it comes to death sentences and executions, yet that does not appear to stop various EU Member States from pushing aside major ethical principles and keeping quiet about human rights when the Chinese leaders come to visit Europe.
For years the people of Zimbabwe have suffered under the vicious, bigoted and corrupt Mugabe regime.
Conditions in Zimbabwe are appalling.
At the 61st session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in Geneva, the EU should sponsor a specific resolution on Zimbabwe and, in any case, use all means at its disposal over the coming vital weeks to ensure free and fair elections in that benighted country. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a debate about Europe’s commitment to worldwide respect for human rights in a UN context would not be complete without it being stated that one in five people, mainly women, still have no access to food, water, health care or basic education.
The Millennium Goals are the concrete objectives to which Heads of Government across the world have committed themselves in a UN context in a bid to improve that situation.
Five years after this ambitious plan, we have to conclude that those objectives are a long way from being met.
If those objectives are met, 500 new people can escape from extreme poverty, more than three hundred million people can live without hunger, thirty million children can be saved from premature death, two million fewer mothers will die in child birth, one hundred million more girls and young women will be able to attend school.
That is respect for human rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, someone once described the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva as the annual human rights circus.
At the same time as focusing our attention on various details, we should still make very specific mention of the leading violators of human rights, China and Russia.
The ‘Evil Cult’ is, as a concept, much too vague to be regarded in any way as reasonable grounds for arrest or imprisonment.
It has already been mentioned here that expressions of concern by Parliament and in particular the Member States have in certain cases come up against the passivity of the Member States of the Union and the commercial interests operating in the background.
We need a pre-emptive strategy which takes our weaknesses and inclinations into account in our desire for a diplomatically comfortable existence. &#160;&#160; The debate is suspended.
We shall now proceed to the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would simply like to say that I am occupying a seat on the committee chairmen’s bench to which I am not entitled, because I am no longer a committee chairman, while Mr&#160;Jean-Marie Cavada, who is the Chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, is sitting up in the gods.
Thirdly, representative trade experts will be involved in committee proceedings in accordance with Article 9 of the rules for the committee procedures. &#160;&#160; .
Everyone is aware of the merit of the proposal and it is commendable that we have managed to reach an honourable compromise between the Commission, the Council and Parliament, which means that Parliament can vote – I hope with the broadest possible majority – for this report.
The task ahead of you will not be easy, but you can be assured that the European Union will support you.
There are therefore two reasons for us to rejoice.
I am therefore very proud to be able to address the European Parliament.
I am also very proud to be able to be representing a country that has created a new symbol within the European continent.
The Berlin Wall was pulled down and our Orange Revolution too became a new symbol within a democratic Europe.
All this means that totalitarianism will no longer be possible on our continent.
The borders of Europe now extend from Lisbon to beyond Kiev.
In my country we have seen the President elected democratically for a second time and this time it has happened in a transparent and democratic way.
This victory became possible because we saw the development of a proper civil society in Ukraine.
During those unforgettable days of the Orange Revolution your support was of great encouragement, a great symbol for us, helping us in our struggle against the fear we knew during the month of December, which was a very difficult month to live through.
Here in the European Parliament we heard, we understood, that a new democratic society was possible within Ukraine.
Ukraine still needs to do much to become a full member of the European family but we have already attained our main objective.
These things unify us and this feeling of unity is so much more important than mere statements that people make.
For us in Ukraine, our objective for this bread is that it be shaped by the new standards and new values adopted in accordance with European standards and values.
We have chosen our strategic and political path in that direction.
In the past, democracy, the rule of law and even the media were very difficult in Ukraine.
By adopting its resolution on 13 January this year the European Parliament has shown how visionary it is by recommending to the Council, the Commission and the Member States that they support Ukraine in its European aspirations.
I believe that the extension of the Ukraine action plan is an extremely positive gesture.
We, in Ukraine, will do everything we can to implement the provisions of the action plan from our side.
Ukraine will do its utmost so that we can now conduct a joint analysis, enabling us to show how much progress we have made.
The neighbourhood policy already seems to have been overtaken by events.
The scope and dimension of our relations should be based on the fact that Ukraine is an integral part of a united Europe already.
Once again I emphasise that we feel that our cooperation with the European Union is situated very much within the framework of the action plan, but going beyond the neighbourhood policy and we are proposing that, as of now, we undertake actions with a view to the future membership of Ukraine in the European Union.
The final outcome of the conclusion of the action plan, which we are fully prepared to implement faster than was originally planned, could then allow for the creation of an association agreement.
Ukraine can make an official request on the basis of Article&#160;49 of the European Union Treaty, and we can do our utmost to meet the Copenhagen criteria.
Nobody can do that work for us.
My government has already drawn up an action plan for the next five years, with the ultimate objective of our joining the European Union.
The Deputy Prime Minister responsible for European cooperation is currently drawing up all the detailed aspects of that action plan.
These are important objectives for us and clearly it is going to require much work to adapt our society.
I am convinced that we can avoid discrimination of any kind being tolerated in our society and in our fight against the scourges with which we are all familiar in Europe.
We shall be doing everything we can to implement things in a meticulous way at all levels, in the economy, in social life and in every area of society.
The Atlantic Alliance is something that will further assist the creation of civil society, the rule of law and respect for human rights in my country during my presidency.
We are more interested than anybody in developing our relations also with the Russian Federation, our big neighbour.
We do not see our moving towards Europe as a problem for Russia because it will help to bring the Russian Federation itself closer to Europe.
Nobody can say that Ukraine moving towards Europe could prevent us having closer cooperation with our Russian neighbours.
If Ukraine were a member of the European Union and NATO, it would not mean that we would use that membership against the interests of Russia and the Russian people.
As far as our cooperation with the Russian Federation is concerned, there will be a new regional policy to develop that.
Transfrontier cooperation, energy networks and the like will become ways of fleshing out our cooperation in concrete terms, from Baku to the western frontiers of the European Union.
It is the strength of Europe that is to be found in this unity.
You know that Ukraine can also form part of the future of Europe.
If we do not vote in accordance with the block compromise we would be unpicking everything that had been agreed, or the basis of the agreement, in the compromise.
Like the other agreements that have already been concluded, this one gives further proof that the EU’s traditional partners have taken a positive view of the enlargement, a sign that Europe is now an increasingly relevant political entity.
In addition to focusing on its citizens’ well-being, the EU should also help to make its neighbours economies more dynamic, which, moreover, is in line with its strategy of a ‘European Neighbourhood Policy’ (COM (2004) 373 final), adopted by the General Affairs Council on 14&#160;June&#160;2004.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; . – The Commission is proposing that the Council authorise the Member States falling under the EU’s common visa, asylum and immigration policy (including Sweden) to ratify, in the interests of the Community, the Seafarers’ Identity Documents Convention of the International Labour Organisation.
The aim of this proposal for a regulation amending the Community Customs Code is to incorporate the basic principles underlying the new concept of security management for external borders, including the introduction of a harmonised risk-assessment system.
Although it sounds rather dry, this proposal is to be warmly welcomed as it underpins the policy of lifelong learning as a basic component of the European employment strategy (as acknowledged by the Lisbon European Council in 2000).
Against this backdrop, one might vote against this report, for the reasons I have stated.
There are two factors, however, that have led us not to do so.
A legal basis at European level for compiling comparable data which give a true picture of continuing vocational training must be seen as an essential element both from the point of view of coordination and of what is referred to as effectiveness.
The regulation before us establishes a common framework for producing Community figures on vocational training in enterprises.
Portugal has already taken steps in this direction, with the introduction of measures into labour legislation under the heading of continuing lifelong learning for workers and companies.
One of those instruments is lifelong learning.
I am also in favour of including small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in statistics of this kind.
The global aim of this proposal is thus to ally flexibility with security.
Despite some reservations of a technical nature (not least with regard to the operational capability of checking by means of biometric data) put forward by the rapporteur, I believe, as he does, that this proposal for a Council decision, if adopted, essentially confers symbolic value on this authorisation.
If all Member States are entitled to ratify the Convention simultaneously, this will confirm ‘in the eyes of the rest of the world the importance the Community attaches to the Convention’.
I would simply like to say that I welcome the adoption of the Wortmann-Kool report, which is probably one of the most remarkable legislative acts of the European Union in recent years.
Never has the European Union gone so far in imposing sanctions of the most severe kind, in other words criminal sanctions, on the pirates of the seas who blight our coastlines and who very often devastate entire livelihoods as well as the flora and fauna of coastal areas.
Personally, I would like them to accept those responsibilities fully, because Europe is not only defending itself in this way against maritime pollution, but also sending out an international message which is even bolder than the MARPOL legislation, and it is in a position to change, throughout the world, the legislation against pollution and against the pirates of the seas.
If we make this additional progress, I think that we shall then be the world leaders in safety and sanctions against pollution. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as far as the Wortmann-Kool report is concerned, I should like to report that we New Democracy MEPs voted in favour of the amendment tabled by vice-chairman Mr Varvitsiotis supporting the compatibility of Community law with the MARPOL international convention on questions of culpability in relation to sanctions for accidental pollution.
Similarly, we New Democracy MEPs also supported Amendment 37 which, on the one hand, calls on us to impose a regime of cooperation between the national authorities, because numerous accidents are caused by a lack of cooperation and inadequate exchange of know-how and, on the other hand, stipulates the need for a cost-benefit study to be carried out on the new measures and the new policies which the European Union wishes to apply for the development of maritime transport within the framework of efficient management of waters and their protection from pollution. &#160;&#160; .
I believe that the EU must act clearly on this issue and must provide a responsible framework of rules for the maritime transport of oil and other noxious liquid substances.
It is therefore important to combat illegal discharges and to move towards uniform implementation and interpretation within the EU of the international rules in force.
The proposal for a directive incorporates into Community law a range of international rules governing discharges, based on global agreements (MARPOL) and specifies which contraventions of the discharge rules are criminal offences, providing guidance concerning the nature of penalties to be imposed.
In light of the fact that MARPOL rules are relevant, clear and reasonable, they should be incorporated into Community law, given the increasingly international nature of maritime transport.
In this context, discharges from ships on the high seas require particular concern and attention.
I endorse the view expressed in Spain, France, Italy and Portugal’s declaration to the Council, namely that the EU should go further in combating illegal discharges in the exclusive economic zone.
This mass of detail, with so many exceptions, is not an example of good legislation.
We could even ask ourselves whether we need a European directive in this field at all.
The Commission proposal for a directive has become too detailed, however, as have the amendments tabled in the European Parliament.
In our opinion, the principle of subsidiarity and the country of origin principle should apply to the provisions governing driving licences for motorcycles and mopeds.
The validity of driving licences and the need, or otherwise, for medical examinations of their holders are also issues on which we believe in the principle of mutual recognition and have confidence in the Member States’ ability to make well-considered, sensible decisions.
In our opinion, that is also the way it should be with regard to provisions on driving licences.
We are voting against this report, as we are of the opinion that provisions on driving licences can be harmonised without this detailed proposal for a directive.
I endorse his report because his proposal will genuinely improve safety and free movement for road users and offer more opportunities for control in order to reduce the possibilities of fraud.
I feel the amendments from the European Parliament have improved the proposal.
Protection against fraud, the free movement of drivers and road safety are key factors in the defence of freedom of movement in the EU.
If we are to enjoy the benefits of greater freedom of movement, we must accept the harmonisation of the basic rules intended to foster safety on the roads, to prevent fraud and to punish offenders.
When it comes to beneficial and entirely justified measures such as this one, we must avoid increasing regulatory and bureaucratic constraints, creating additional limitations for those learning to ride motorcycles or creating more restrictive conditions concerning the period of validity or renewal date of driving licences.
The European driving licence information network and the mutual recognition of sanctions may be valid ways to help to address the situation.
I believe the step-up approach, or progressive access to certain types of vehicle, particularly motorcycles, may have a positive effect in cutting the number of road accidents among young people, and it is worth examining the possibility of introducing it.
All things considered, I voted for the proposal. &#160;&#160; . – I voted for the Sommer report as I believe inland waterway navigation is a key factor in transport intermodality.
This proposal, which is intended to establish a Europe-wide framework for the introduction of inland waterway transport information services, may contribute to improved and more effective traffic and transport management on inland waterways.
This proposal does not excessively constrain action by the Member States, and it should also lead to significantly less subjective error and fewer accidents.
Intermodal transport systems, which form a basic model for future transport, should therefore take account of the positive role that inland waterway navigation can and must play. &#160;&#160; . – This Commission proposal represents a major effort to reduce the excessive demands on our roads, particularly with regard to heavy goods transport in Europe.
In addition, the proposal seeks to create a Europe-wide framework for the implementation of inland waterway transport information services, involving the use of modern information and communications services designed to bring about improvements in traffic and transport management on internal waterways.
I hope, therefore, that this proposal for a directive can be one more step on the road towards a genuine strategy for long-distance sea and inland waterway transport in preference to road haulage. &#160;&#160; . – The June List has chosen to vote against the proposal on the recognition of seafarers’ certificates.
The June List is fundamentally sympathetic towards the country of origin principle and supports the idea of removing the barriers to the functioning of the internal market.
This report recommends that our recognition procedures be simplified, but not that existing procedures outside the EU be brought up to the same standard, which would have had the advantage of limiting the numerous cases of fraud which occur.
Finally, we must abolish flags of convenience on the rust buckets which swarm over and pollute our seas and oceans. &#160;&#160; . – I voted for the report by Robert Evans on the recognition of seafarers’ certificates because I believe we need to halt the decline in the number of EU seafarers through measures to protect the freedom of movement of workers in this sector.
Measures such as those proposed therefore have my support. &#160;&#160; . – This Commission proposal is designed to simplify the recognition procedure for seafarers’ certificates because a situation has arisen where the recognition of certificates from outside the EU is now simpler than that of certificates from within the EU.
In particular, the 1978 Convention laid down specific criteria for the recognition of certificates for masters, officers and radio officers issued by the parties.
I consider it a timely proposal and, of course, I underline the fact that it adopts language proficiency requirements for seafarers – a command of English, which is obviously the international – and provides for mechanisms to prevent fraud in the certification process (Article 5 of the Commission proposal).
Reducing the burden of regulation for workers in this sector in Europe is another positive aspect of this proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I will be very brief.
Our explanation of vote is very simple.
I cannot vote in favour of the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a Community Fisheries Control Agency.
Another aspect of the common fisheries policy is the protection of aquatic resources.
The Lisbon strategy states that sustainable development entails paying attention to both the ecological and social factors of this development.
The period that has been agreed on gives rise to unacceptable social tensions. &#160;&#160; . – I congratulate Mrs&#160;Attwooll on the important and timely report she has produced on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a Community Fisheries Control Agency and amending Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93 establishing a control system applicable to the common fisheries policy.
The establishment of the agency deserves our full support, since its role will be that of a facilitator of fisheries plans to be drawn up by Member States for the inspection and control of their resources.
It will be a support body for the implementation of the new common fisheries policy, which will help to create more uniform and effective control and inspection procedures.
Now there will also be a Community Fisheries Control Agency, in other words a real European Fisheries Ministry.
This FBI of the sea will have the task of coordinating the control and inspection activities of Member States in the fisheries sector.
Parliament wanted such a control system both in Community waters and in international waters.
I believe that this agency should be established without delay.
I believe that the question of voting rights in this new agency should not be used as a subterfuge to allow the Commission to dominate proceedings. &#160;&#160; . – The issue of fisheries is of great importance for Europe as a whole, but above all it is especially important for Portugal, because, in this respect, the interests of our country are not always adequately safeguarded by Community policies.
The regulation establishing a Community Fisheries Control Agency therefore deserves particular attention.
Although the Member States will retain control over fishing activities, the fact is that the Commission is responsible for the operational coordination of monitoring activities and, above all, has the common interest to protect.
We must therefore focus on the way in which this common interest is pursued, without forgetting the need for full compliance with the principle of subsidiarity.
I must, however, warn against the risk of centralisation and loss of powers by the Member States.
UK Conservatives abstained on the vote on the creation of a centralised Fisheries Control Agency in Vigo in Spain for the following reasons: Firstly, the policy of centralising fisheries control is politically part of the integrationist agenda of the European Commission which as Conservatives we oppose.
Secondly, we accept that in the event of a Conservative government withdrawing from the CFP and returning fisheries management to local and national control many UK vessels will nevertheless continue to fish in EU waters out with the UK 200 mile limit.
In these circumstances, and accepting the fact that the Commission policy to create an EU Fisheries Control Agency in Vigo is a , it will be in British interest to a working relationship with this new body.
We therefore felt it was appropriate rather than opposing outright the proposal to abstain in this vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to explain why I did not support the amendments to paragraph 20.
It is important that we look at the idea of banning smoking in public places in the European Parliament.
We look to the European Commission to do something, but it is wrong at this stage to start talking about having exclusions for certain areas or little glass cabinets where people can smoke, because somebody has to clean those areas afterwards.
Primary responsibility in this area lies with Member States.
I am very much against the idea of prejudicing the whole debate by deciding now what we are going to do. &#160;&#160; . – The Moderatedelegation in the European Parliament today voted in favour of the Ries report on the European Environment and Health Action Plan 2004–2010.
In our opinion, it is wrong, however, of the European Parliament to call on the Commission to take the initiative on issues of lifestyle-related diseases or various measures against smoking.
The Moderate Partyis of the opinion that the EU is an important tool in the pursuit of a better environment, but there are nevertheless limits to its responsibility.
Parliament considers that the Action Plan can at best be seen as a research plan, which does not in itself mitigate the problems of disease caused by environmental factors, at least not in the short term.
One of the greatest omissions, however, is without doubt the lack of any evaluation of the consequences of current European Union policies, such as the common agricultural policy and the liberalisation policies that promote the privatisation of essential public services, subordinating them to the profit motive, as is happening with water.
I understand the need to use the 'precautionary principle' to protect consumers from the possible long-term dangers of the phthalate family of chemicals including DEHP, but I represent a factory in Quedgeley, in Gloucestersire, Gambro, which has received the Queen's Award to Industry and has 120 employees.
People in such circumstances have to worry about the next 25 minutes rather than the next 25 years.
By way of conclusion, it is very important that the Commission, on the one hand, clarifies what total sums are to be released to fund the Action Plan and, on the other hand, explains whether it believes that a new financial instrument is required to fund it.
The rapporteur invokes the precautionary principle to deny the need for absolute scientific proof that a particular product is dangerous before it is withdrawn from the market.
While I may even agree with the idea, I would, however, draw attention to the fact that interpretation of this principle by Community courts has been uneven and not always consistent, and it therefore really needs to be clarified. &#160;&#160; . – It is a fact that the Mediterranean is of strategic importance to the whole of Europe and that we need to develop a Mediterranean policy based on solidarity in order to act on the multiple shared challenges of peace, stability, terrorism, mutual understanding, the fight against trafficking in people, and the objective of creating a shared area of prosperity.
The whole Mediterranean area is particularly sensitive and requires very special care, particularly with regard to the need to support peace in the Middle East, taking account of the defence of Palestinian interests and compliance with the corresponding UN resolutions.
That is why I distance myself from certain aspects of this resolution, which Parliament has adopted. &#160;&#160; . – It is the responsibility of the Member States to carry out control and inspection measures to implement the common fisheries policy (CFP) in their respective exclusive economic zones.
I am sceptical about the added value provided by the creation of a Community Fisheries Control Agency and believe that centralisation at that level conflicts with the Member States’ competences.
I therefore voted against the report.
Human rights organisations and the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative on Human Rights defenders have expressed regret at the EU position on Colombia taken at the recent donors' meeting at Cartagena.
The EU has a special responsibility in negotiating on the Chair's Statement, and I hope the Council will confirm today that it will postpone producing a draft text until the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights has produced recommendations for this year.
In this year, the 20th anniversary of the Bhopal disaster, minimum standards for companies are required which will reduce the number of victims of abuse across the world in future years. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we all agree that human rights are universal and indivisible and that they are also a measure of the quality of international relations.
That is why the European Union is committed to ensuring that respect for human rights is given the necessary priority, whether this is in the context of relations with China, Russia, Syria, Iran or North Korea, a list that is, of course, by no means exhaustive.
Secondly, I am also very concerned that arrest warrants issued by the State Security Court are still being executed, even though Turkey claims to fulfil the Copenhagen political criterion.
On the subject of human rights, I believe that the views emphasised by the various speakers here in Parliament are to a large extent shared by the Council.
We should play an active role in reforming its operation, and I believe that this is an extremely important point, in the context of the reform of the United Nations and of the multilateral system in general.
We are also aware that the handling of human rights issues in various countries sometimes forms part of a long-drawn process.
I shall mention three examples, which have been commented on in detail in this House.
Of course, we could have a policy of confrontation with Iran over human rights issues, but the outcome of such a policy is still extremely uncertain.
We clearly called for the reactivation of the group discussing human rights in Iran, and for the resumption of the dialogue with Iran on human rights in the context of the general relations which we wish to establish with that country.
For example, Iran has tried to obtain, in exchange, an assurance that there will not be any initiatives within the ECHR.
I believe that the human rights dialogue with China is an extremely important aspect of our relations with that country.
We have a long job ahead of us, but if we look for a moment at the situation in other parts of the world, we can see that this relentless, gradual but constant work on human rights can prove successful and produce results, and there are plenty of examples to demonstrate this.
The final example I should like to mention is Zimbabwe.
We shall therefore have to decide how we are going to continue our relations with this important country, and there are other countries in Africa which would be worth mentioning in this context.
We have imposed sanctions on Belarus, a country which has to some extent isolated itself.
The question remains of whether, where human rights are concerned, we should isolate a country or seek to keep a minimum of dialogue open, especially in order to help those who are the first victims of restrictions on freedoms and human rights.
To conclude, I believe that Europe is making real, constant, active, but also diversified progress in the area of human rights, and we are not making this area a secondary priority as some people have said.
I believe that we want to play an important role and adopt a more global approach towards human rights.
I believe that it is also very important that these issues should always be on the agenda at our bilateral meetings too.
The same is true of our new neighbourhood policy, about which President Yushchenko expressed a certain reticence today.
Although the neighbourhood policy we have designed is a gradual policy, it is also a policy which can bring countries together.
The position expressed by Mrs Flautre, to the effect that our dialogue with a country is not incompatible with action within the United Nations, is a position entirely shared by the Commission and the Council.
This is why we have always clearly said that we would oppose any motions seeking to prevent a vote on any resolution, and have in fact done so.
The no motion vote forms part of the procedures of the Commission on Human Rights, but sometimes, unfortunately, it prevents us from working together.
There are some very interesting ideas.
One concerns the universalisation of membership of the UN Commission on Human Rights or, in the longer term, even the creation of a fully-fledged human rights council.
This is a very interesting idea and I feel we should support it.
However, we must ensure that any UN reform process promotes respect for human rights, the promotion of humanitarian law, the rule of law and democracy, all of which are at the core of our peace-building response of the United Nations.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The European Parliament must say a clear ‘no’ to the export of arms to China.
I wonder whether a higher turnover for a few European arms manufacturers should mean that Europe has to give up its values and its ambitions to uphold human rights effectively in the world.
The Presidency is constantly and closely following developments in the political situation in that country, and in particular the preparation and conduct of the elections on 6 March.
The parliamentary elections in Moldova will also be observed by the OSCE.
The Moldovan Government invited international observers a long time in advance, and I hope that Members of the European Parliament will also take part in this observation mission.
This morning there has been a lot of talk about values and democracy in the Mediterranean context, and President Yushchenko has to some extent given us a master class in democracy and values.
It is therefore important that Moldova should rejoin Europe in this area too.
The European Union has appealed to the Moldovan authorities to ensure that these elections take place in an open and fair climate, that the media coverage of the election campaign is pluralist and impartial, and that the State administration remains neutral towards all candidates and their supporters.
Finally, the Union has appealed to the Moldovan Government to take into account the concerns raised by the OSCE’s fact-finding mission and to implement the joint recommendations established by the OSCE and the Venice Commission in 2004.
Mr President, yesterday we had a EU Cooperation Council in which the new neighbourhood policy and the action plan for Moldova was adopted.
Since independence in 1991, Moldova has had a rather good record of free and fair elections.
However, the OSCE's assessment of local elections since 2001 have reported that, unfortunately, the situation has deteriorated.
Other reasons for concern include also the apparent lack of confidence in the central election commission, problems with the accuracy of voter registers, reported abuse of the administrative resources by the authorities, control by the ruling party and government of the public media, and pressure on the private media.
This includes Moldovan citizens living abroad, or in Transnistria.
Yesterday we heard from the government that there had also been some disturbances in the electoral process coming from outside the country.
That is how they described it and I think we have to ensure that we observe these elections very carefully.
As a result, the Commission has given funding for 25 specially named commissioners for this election observation, going into the OSCE/ODIHR mission.
I shall take this opportunity to reaffirm our support for the very good work of this Council of Europe and OSCE support team.
It is a country with a rich history, and a country where there have been clashes between ethnic and national interests, as well as cultural, religious, economic and political differences.
Moldova is the point at which East meets West and Christianity meets Islam, and the point at which the interests of different rulers and powers have intersected throughout history.
Stability can only be safeguarded by full democracy, the rule of law and respect for human and civil rights.
The elections will also set new challenges for the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, judging from the Council and the Commission, the Commissioner and the President-in-Office of the Council, it is clear that all of us – by which I mean the three institutions – have to give Moldova, the Moldovan Government, a joint signal in the run-up to the elections of 6 March, and that is also the very objective of today’s debate and of the resolution which we in this House will undoubtedly be adopting by a large majority tomorrow.
Firstly, there is the issue of Transnistria and the quest for a solution to the unacceptable situation in that part of Moldova.
This morning, President Yushchenko made a clear statement about the new Ukrainian Government’s willingness to help find a solution, and this is where Ukraine’s help is absolutely necessary.
In addition, as the Commissioner has already pointed out, that country’s future orientation is an important topic, and by and large, the parties seem to be agreed on the need for it to draw closer to Europe and to the European Union.
The country has serious problems, but its people know how to live and survive in desperate economic circumstances as this is what they have to do.
There will be elections in Moldova on 6 March, the results of which could increase our mutual cooperation and bring Moldova closer to the European Union.
Romania is becoming a member of the European Union, there have been great changes in Ukraine, and we hope that they will also succeed in their wishes and that the wheels of development and democracy will begin to turn faster in Moldova.
I wish that the Ukrainian president had used his speech today to encourage our friends in Moldova, because the Ukrainian example has demonstrated that outside interference does not help and cannot stop history.
We wish them success as well as new and better opportunities to make progress, and we look forward to working with them after the elections. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Republic of Moldova is a country which is often forgotten about in Europe.
We know that Moldova is the poorest country in Europe and that its young people are leaving in droves.
Nonetheless, and I emphasise this point again too, democratic development in Moldova is the responsibility of its parties, government and administration.
I too share their concerns with regard to the need for a calming of the situation in Moldova, and for closer cooperation with this European country.
The Commissioner has mentioned several problems relating to the elections.
We discussed these problems yesterday when preparing our resolution, and I believe that the motion before the House is an acceptable compromise.
As regards the problem of the media, I have information from sources provided by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that there has nonetheless been a shift.
Roughly half of broadcasting time in the state-owned media is allocated to the opposition and half to the ruling parties, with this rising to one to twenty in favour of the opposition in the private media.
It will, however, be up to us to monitor this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in one year, nine months and eight days’ time Moldova’s neighbour, Romania, will become a member of the European Union.
Yet elections without campaigns are like a fish out of water, and we must therefore judge the Moldovan authorities not only on whether they observe procedures on the day of the elections, but also on whether they ensure that a normal campaign takes place.
It is also the location of a frozen conflict in its breakaway territory of Transnistria, under Russian military protection since 1991, following a bloody secessionist conflict.
This territory is a haven for gansterism, smuggling and money laundering and corrupts the local authorities around the Odessa oblast in Ukraine.
President Voronin, whom I met a year ago, in spite of being a Communist and ethnically Russian, is committed to EU and NATO approximation for his country after a row with President Putin, who failed to withdraw Russian troops by 2002 from Transnistria, as agreed.
The new parliament must help Romania, Ukraine, Russia, the USA and the EU get together with the Moldovan Government to solve the Transnistria problem.
I personally would start by advocating tightening of the sanctions against Tiraspol by asking President Yushchenko of Ukraine, who was here this morning, to further demonstrate his independence from Moscow by preventing Mr Smirnov and his 16 cronies from travelling to Ukraine as the EU has already done with the visa ban.
I would also ask the Council to bring in a policy to prevent any aircraft landing in EU territory having taken off from Tiraspol military airport, thus ensuring they all fly out of Chisinau, where they can be openly inspected for smuggling, including arms trafficking. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, since the Orange Revolution, the European Parliament has been paying more and more attention to its neighbours in the east.
We both confirm our support and indicate our understanding of complex situation in the region.
The European Union is ready to support the Moldovans, both in the process of European integration and in the restoration of their territorial integrity.
Today’s speech in Parliament by the Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko gives us cause to believe that Ukraine considers the solution of the Transnistria problem to be a serious issue.
The elections are not democratic unless all political parties have fair and equal access to the media during the election campaign.
The European Union must be prepared to treat Moldova on equal terms with Ukraine.
I do not see any reasons why the European Parliament should not support Moldova’s European Union membership prospects during the democratic and economic reform processes.
The first Copenhagen criterion – democracy – is, of course, a prerequisite for Europe’s support and cooperation, but the other two – a free market economy and the rule of law – are equally essential for Moldova.
A clear position regarding these issues is necessary if we are to be honest with ourselves, with Europe, and with the Moldovans. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Schmit, the President of Ukraine has summed it up very aptly today.
The principle that his country associates with Europe is democracy – and the democrats in the Republic of Moldova are looking to us as well.
That is why I believe that – especially in the light of events in its neighbour, Ukraine – we must offer Moldova a clearer perspective.
What we need now is a Thessaloniki strategy for these three countries.
It is an anachronism that the Republic of Moldova is the only country in the Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe to have no prospect of accession to the European Union.
If, though, there is to be a European Republic of Moldova, the election on 6 March must be democratic.
We appeal to our European friends in the Republic of Moldova to go and vote, to vote for democracy, and to make the Republic of Moldova freer, more democratic and more European so that this House can very soon bid their country welcome. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the predominantly Romanian-speaking area that used to be referred to as Bessarabia, and is currently known as Moldova, alternated between being Romanian and Russian.
One cannot therefore exclude the possibility the elections being as flawed as were last year’s in Ukraine and Belarus.
As we know, on 6 March Parliamentary elections will take place in Moldova, which I hope to be able to observe as a member of the European Parliament's delegation of election observers.
The situation in Moldova is complicated above all because to this day the Transnistria problem remains unresolved.
In conclusion I would like to express the hope, that the European Union and international community will not be impotent and that the European Union will not only observe the elections and monitor the situation, but will take concrete steps to help Moldova's democratic forces and will not allow the situation in that country to become unstable.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike certain fellow Members, I think that Parliament is welcoming and feels close to the Moldovan people and in particular to their efforts to put in place a complete democratic system and achieve greater civil progress.
We are united by strong ties and by common interests and we wish to pursue the cooperation already underway in the framework of the neighbourhood programme.
We are taking note of what happens, of the contradictions and the delays, but also of the positive action carried out by political and social bodies, institutions and associations, in particular secular and Catholic associations, which are fighting to defend the inviolable rights of children and to combat the trafficking of girls forced into prostitution.
From this point of view, the forthcoming elections on 6&#160;March are an important occasion and it is right to call for them to take place with the greatest transparency to ensure the fullest participation possible.
It is unacceptable for the European Union and the European Parliament to intervene repeatedly in the internal affairs of other countries.
In the case of Moldova, hypocrisy about the democratic process really does exceed all limits.
It has shown that we are interested in this country which, in spite of everything, is a little behind compared with general development in Europe, in other words development towards greater democracy and also development towards economic and social reform, the fight against corruption and the fight against trafficking in human beings, all subjects which are very important in this context.
I believe that the lesson which we can draw from this debate, and on which Parliament, the Council and the Commission all agree, is, as someone has already said, to send a strong signal to Moldova, to the effect that it must not miss a historical opportunity in the wake of the events in Ukraine.
We must do everything we can via our action plan, but we must also find a solution to this very difficult problem.
I have heard that some people want to go beyond the action plan, but this is not the time for that.
The debate is closed.
Finally, Mr&#160;President, I believe this should also apply to the mandate to be granted to the Commission as we approach the Hong Kong Summit in the development of the Doha Round. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, poverty is not inevitable, but the result of political and economic decisions taken at national, regional and international level, and I believe that it is high time that it were considered illegal.
The number of people living in extreme poverty has risen – and I do not intend to bore you with details or numbers, because you already have them – but, as stated in the New York Declaration, the greatest scandal is not so much that hunger and poverty exist, but that this problem persists despite there being the necessary human and material resources to tackle it.
The Quintet has recommended new funding instruments for development, which I am not going to list here (taxation and similar strategies).
In reality, eradicating poverty in poor countries, but now also in classes of the so-called rich countries, means respecting the right to life and also constitutes the best weapon against fundamentalism and violent conflicts.
The structural adjustment programmes and unbridled liberalisation have certainly not improved living conditions in those countries.
Lastly, we are also committed to cancelling debt and in my view the transparent management of aid must also be one of the EU’s express, fundamental commitments.
There is now a real awareness, firstly an awareness that poverty and hunger in the world constitute a real scandal, and then, beyond that, an awareness that they pose a permanent threat to stability and normal development.
It is true that so far the Council has not yet adopted a position on the innovative sources of finance for aid to developing countries.
Heaven knows that we are still, in the case of many countries, and particular sub-Saharan countries, very far from achieving those goals, for example as regards access to water, access to education and access to proper food.
In its conclusions of 27 April 2004, the Council, noting the work currently being carried out in Member States on innovative sources of finance, encouraged the Member States and the Commission to examine the possibilities for agreement on the various proposals currently under discussion.
In that connection the Council emphasised the important role of partnerships between the public and private sectors.
At its meeting in June 2004, the European Council confirmed that the European Union would intensify its efforts with a view to meeting the commitments made at Monterrey, in particular by seeking the innovative sources of finance which I have already mentioned.
In addition, at its latest meeting, in December 2004, the European Council confirmed that the European Union is completely committed to the Millennium Development Goals and to the idea that we should ensure that progress is made towards achieving them, particularly by seeking new methods of finance based on the proposals submitted by the Commission for the high-level meeting in 2005.
The Commission endorses the fundamental standpoint that prompted the Quartet to consider new sources of funding.
However, as the World Bank notes in its report to the Committee on Development, the simplest and most effective way of increasing the available resources is to provide a greater proportion of funding for development assistance from national budgets.
We intend to make practical proposals which will be presented by my colleague Louis Michel to the Commission for discussion before they are forwarded to the Council, notably in the context of the Commission Communication, now being prepared, which follows up the Monterrey Conference, and in relation to a consolidated project for the Millennium Summit +5 review conference in September 2005.
My personal view is that the current innovative proposals, such as the Global Marshall Plan Initiative, are very interesting and we will, of course, take part in the discussions within the various bodies.
On the contrary, these commitments must be reaffirmed and new ones must be made. &#160;&#160; .
As a member of the Polish Academy of Sciences, and hence a representative of education, which the Commissioner mentioned earlier, I would like to draw your attention to one issue.
We are helping one or two people individually, but this is no help at all to the poor country.
With regard to the matter we are discussing here, I once had the opportunity to exchange a few words with Commissioner Michel, and I believe that we agree that it would be useful to put forward a proposal, and if possible to implement it, whereby a certain amount of money would be earmarked in the budget to help those returning to poor countries to adapt, or rather re-adapt, to poverty during the transitional period before they find a suitable job that is in keeping with their skills.
I am therefore very much in favour of this proposal.
However, back in 2000, the world leaders signed a declaration in which they committed themselves to meeting the Millennium Goals by 2015 or thereabouts.
Now in 2005, the world can see that, in Africa, a goal such as ‘everyone to school’ is not moving any closer but has edged further away.
That, to my mind, should be done straight away, and not by setting up a new world fund, but by fully concentrating all existing aid sources – the World Health Fund, the European Development Fund, the activities of the IMF and the World Bank – from both north and south on the MDGs – the Millennium Development Goals.
At the same time, all European Member States should be able to achieve 0.5% of the national budget for development cooperation by 2010 and 0.7% by 2015.
The EU itself should set aside 10% from its own financial multi-annual perspectives, channelled via a single development budget, with the MDGs being the legally binding instruments.
I think that the presidency is in good hands and is keen to move in that direction along with Mr Michel and the other Commissioners.
So we cannot, on the one hand, discuss the possibility of increasing development aid funds and, on the other hand, pursue agricultural policies that contribute to a worsening of the situation in many countries.
This is because the discussions are concentrating almost exclusively on an indiscriminate liberalisation of trade, without taking account of local conditions, while large numbers of cheap, often subsidised, exports from our countries are already playing a part in seriously destabilising the situation for farmers in these countries.
I therefore think that all these issues need to be examined at the meeting of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly which will take place in Bamako in April.
I hope, on behalf of my group, that the direction taken by the European Union in this area will change so as to achieve greater consistency between what we are saying today about hunger and poverty and what we are saying elsewhere, in other arenas, about agricultural policy and the liberalisation of trade in agricultural products.
The situation today is completely the opposite.
The doctrine of Afro-pessimism is spreading, while a number of Asian countries are moving forward.
I must say that this comparison between Africa and Asia gives a pointer as to the direction European Union policy should be taking in the field of development aid, in order to ensure that the available resources are being used appropriately in the interests of economic growth. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, I too share the opinion of the authors of the oral question.
I would ask you to forgive me for making a number of comments, but the subject of this debate has prompted me to inform the Council and the Commission of the frequent cases of extreme poverty and destitution that exist in Poland, and perhaps in other countries of the Union as well.
Our line of approach can only succeed if we adopt coherent policy in the areas of development aid, agriculture and trade, and deliver on our commitments.
It is a worldwide organisation that combats hunger in many developing countries.
Women take up a key position in society in terms of agriculture, education, hygiene in the family, and such like, which are crucial factors in combating hunger.
Under President Lula’s direction, this Quintet has succeeded in placing the fight against hunger and extreme poverty on the international agenda.
After all, the earth has enough resources to feed all of humankind.
The very law of nature bears testimony to this.
We address it first of all to God, but we also address it to the politicians and economists, upon whom rests the responsibility for a just distribution of goods, on both a global and a national level.
More than five million people in Poland are already living in extreme poverty.
In those places where people are condemned to live in poverty, human rights are being violated.
The voices of the poorest should be heard everywhere where men and women take decisions on the future of humanity.
Poverty today represents the greatest obstacle to women’s involvement in all aspects of life.
The question arises as to whether we know how to develop the talents of poor people and to facilitate their access to fundamental rights.
The traditional indicators have been roundly criticised by the American economist Gary Becker in his works on human capital and the economic approach to life.
All this economic research shows that one third of the economic activities mainly undertaken by women are not subject to any form of evaluation or monitoring.
Even so, the European Union today contributes 55% of total development aid.
By committing to a malaria strategy, Europe will be making a decisive contribution to the Millennium Objectives, which are binding commitments, and also to a fairer and more secure world, the world that Europe’s citizens hope that the European Union will help to build. &#160;&#160; Mr President, during my two minutes speaking time 40 people will die of hunger: 3.5&#160;seconds per person; 24 000 people per day; 9 million every year; 400 million in the past 50 years – 3 times the number of people killed in all the world wars of the last century.
Even my own report in the ACP set it out yet again.
That is what this motion sets out to achieve. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am delighted that we are holding a debate on the issue of hunger and poverty.
Only four of the Member States of the European Union are currently meeting the commitment to devote 0.7% of their GDP to development aid.
The problem of ending hunger and poverty is as old as the solutions being put forward to solve it: increasing the quality and quantity of development aid, cancelling and reducing debt, instituting a global tax on capital flows, and reforming international trade rules for fairer trade.
Hunger and poverty cannot be reduced to an ephemeral debate subject to the ups and downs of opportunistic media promotion or of charity, however well intentioned. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the role the new Member States of the European Union play in the achievement of development cooperation.
I am delighted that a number of the new Member States have recently made significant increases in the budgetary funds they have earmarked for development policy.
Yet the people of these countries know very little about development cooperation.
I think that it would be worth alerting the citizens of the new Member States to the fact that the poverty that occurs in European countries is a different type of poverty to that which occurs in the poorest countries of the world.
The difference between the technical and social infrastructure in the new EU Member States and in the poorest countries is much greater than it generally seems.
Raising awareness of development cooperation in the new Member States is a task of such importance that not only the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament, but also the governments of the Member States should commit themselves to accomplishing this task to the best of their abilities.
Poland is the country where immensely positive changes in the economic, political and social spheres came about as a result of the Solidarity movement and the implementation of the idea of solidarity, which began 25 years ago.
We should also congratulate countries such as Belgium, Finland, France, Spain and the United Kingdom, which have pledged to achieve this target by 2013.
That is the reason for my question to the European Commission and the Council: what specific forms of cooperation and monitoring are envisaged so that the countries at the bottom of the table and the middle-rankers catch up with the front-runners, thus ensuring that enough public funding is available to deliver Europe's contribution to fulfilling the Millennium Development Goals? &#160;&#160; Mr President, you said that it was time for action and we in Parliament agree with you.
It is time now for action.
This question is all the more important because the discussions on international taxation or on the creation of international financing mechanisms will remain rather hypocritical, as long as the United States and the great majority of the international community will not accept these mechanisms.
Equally, the amount of effort put into looking for new means, while we have still not achieved the objectives of the Monterrey Consensus, the priority given to improving the effectiveness of existing aid in order to achieve the Millennium objectives, and the scattering of resources and objectives in development policy all diminish the effectiveness of aid.
We must be careful not to get involved in this headlong rush; we need to concentrate on looking for practical solutions that will allow us to meet our current commitments.
Many developing countries are more inclined to see the EU as the cause of their problems than as a solution to them.
The UN, on the other hand, is an organisation more suited to combating poverty and hunger, having broader global support and more member states.
I think this does the European Parliament great credit, and it has an important part to play in the European Union's development cooperation policy.
Mr Bowis quoted some figures that were horribly effective in showing that, behind the statistics, there are human beings who are suffering in this vicious circle of hunger and who are dying every day, every minute.
I must say that the European Union has nothing to be ashamed of in this respect either.
It is also worth emphasising that, in the fight against hunger, against underdevelopment and against poverty, our approach cannot be anything other than global.
That is why it is important to discuss methods of finance and why the commitments that have already been made must first of all be met.
True, there are problems with certain policies, and issues around agricultural policy have already been mentioned, but, in this area too, the European Union is probably the region whose markets are the most open to exports from developing countries.
We are at the same time a participant, by necessity, but we also feel the direct effects of this poverty.
I therefore believe that we need to adopt a global approach; we now have to set up a monitoring system and we must not be afraid of saying, if need be, that the efforts made have not been adequate.
I think that we in Europe are gradually going to put in place an even more effective policy in this field, which your Parliament considers to be extremely important. &#160;&#160; .
However, I would like to quote the figures for the development assistance provided in 2003, for example, by the European Union – the world's largest donor, if we take the Commission and the Member States together.
Of course, we must continue our efforts to achieve the UN target of 0.7% of GDP, but let us take a good look at these figures: from the Commission budget alone, the sum of EUR 7 billion is allocated to development every year.
As Mr Yañez-Barnuevo has said, trade and other mechanisms, as well as debt relief, are important, of course, and the issue of coherence therefore plays a key role here as well.
We all know that the Doha Development Round and the WTO conference in Hong Kong are extremely significant in this respect.
Monterrey addresses this very issue: the fact that an appropriate approach must be adopted by both sides.
The developing countries must uphold these principles too, for otherwise our money – and it is taxpayers' money – will simply be wasted.
The Commission will work very closely with your House in this context, and we hope it will be possible to adopt the millennium package on 22 March.
The package comprises four communications: one cross-cutting, which describes our contribution to the UN Millennium Summit, and three others, each dealing with one aspect of our endeavours.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; Hunger and poverty are no longer only a humanitarian issue.
I urge the Council to take a collective decision on this issue so that every M.S presents a multiannual programme by which it commits itself to reach the 0.7% target and in the meantime the remaining to be complimented through the EU Budget. &#160;&#160; In September 2004, at the UN economic conference 110 countries signed the declaration which said that it is shameful that such levels of poverty exist while there are opportunities to eliminate it. ‘It is high time for action’, said President Chirac. ‘EU policy could provide a guarantee for a real breakthrough in the fight against poverty’.
One of the fundamental questions of the future is whether there are social interests and forces, in a world basically built on a market economy, which are able to mitigate poverty.
The EU – both within and without its borders – must conduct a policy which can contribute to economic development and at the same time create provision for social security, as well as setting an example and spreading it to other regions.
The French initiative – the imposition of a global tax – still has debatable elements, but we must move on this: it is unacceptable that more than a billion people in the world live on less than one dollar a day. ‘It is high time for action’ – I think so too. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on: – oral question (B6-0007/2005) by Luisa&#160;Morgantini, on behalf of the Committee on Development, Enrique&#160;Barón&#160;Crespo, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, and Giles&#160;Chichester, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, to the Council – oral question (B6-0008/2005) by Luisa&#160;Morgantini, on behalf of the Committee on Development, Enrique&#160;Barón&#160;Crespo, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, and Giles&#160;Chichester, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, to the Commission on: Expiry of the WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was present at the meeting with the representative of the United Nations.
With the entry into force of the agreement and the signing of the quota system, many developing countries which have turned textile and clothing manufacturing into one of their major economic resources, will have to contend with a social and economic disaster, a drastic restructuring which will also affect economically dominant countries such as ours.
According to some estimates, China will secure 50% of the United States’ clothing market and 29% of that of Europe, followed by India in second place.
Market liberalisation, however, directly favours the largest manufacturers and not developing countries.
Recent country reports on textile industry exports show a negative economic and social impact in these countries.
We have also asked, therefore, which instruments should be put into effect in order to prevent such contradictions from being so hard-hitting. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the Chairman of the Committee on Development and I, in my capacity as Chairman of the Committee on International Trade, have tabled the previous question on hunger and this one jointly.
The textile and clothing industry is constantly restructuring.
For decades now we have been noticing the extent to which the international division of labour has changed in the textiles sector in particular.
Indeed, you raise some important issues that affect not only Europe but also its partners, especially those on the southern shores of the Mediterranean, as demonstrated by this morning's debate on the constant development of production and the delocalisation of textiles manufacturing.
In addition, the Council has in recent years continuously monitored the situation in the European textiles and clothing industry as it has changed in response to the phasing out of quotas on imports of textiles and clothing from WTO Member States.
Two sets of Council conclusions, adopted in response to two communications from the Commission in 2003 and 2004, demonstrate this concern, amongst other things.
The implementation and expiry of the Agreement on Textile and Clothing form an integral part of the results of the Uruguay Round concluded in 1994.
Since then, it has been clear that as from 1&#160;January&#160;2005 the textiles and clothing sector would be fully integrated into the framework of Article 9 of GATT 1994.
As the Commissioner for Enterprise and Industry stated when this plan was adopted, whether at EU, national or regional level, we need to provide the sector with conditions that will enable it to improve its competitiveness and to remain a key industry for the EU, which is what you also called for, Mr&#160;Barón Crespo.
In its conclusions of 25 and 26 November&#160;2004, the Council stated that it supported the Commission's strategy for the textiles and clothing sector, which focuses on competitiveness linked to research and innovation, training and better skills, protection of intellectual property rights, access to third country markets and encouraging the development of strategies for the textiles industry in the Euro-Mediterranean zone.
As regards the High Level Group's recommendations on the growth of imports from China, which is indeed a top-priority concern, the Council recognises that the Commission has stated that it is prepared to use the trade defence instruments available to it, if the legal conditions are met and if such an approach is actually necessary.
We now need to ensure that they respect these rules, and also other less formal rules regarding, for example, social protection and social standards.
These legal conditions have very recently been changed in order to transpose the lifting of quotas into Community law.
The Council adopted a Regulation to this end on 13 December 2004.
This system will provide customs-based surveillance of imports of liberalised products of all origins and will include a requirement to issue an import surveillance document for imports of certain products from China.
This requirement will be lifted in 2005, once the customs-based surveillance system is fully operational.
With regard to the use of safeguard clauses, Parliament considered, in its resolution of January&#160;2004 on the future of the textile and clothing sector in the EU, that there was a need to set up a clear, rapid and transparent procedure concerning the WTO general safeguard clauses and the special clauses applying to China under the Protocol on China's accession to the WTO.
At the moment, it appears that the Commission is prepared to meet expectations in this respect, since it is going to draft guidelines governing the procedures regarding safeguard measures.
The realisation of the Doha Development Round and the way in which the Doha Development Agenda is developing are just one more example of this.
Let me also remind you, with regard more specifically to the expiry of the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, that the end of quotas and the integration of trade in textiles and clothing into the GATT were one of the main demands of the developing countries during the Uruguay Round.
It is true that, since it joined the WTO, China has seen a constant increase in its share in the international textile and clothing trade.
In this context, the situation resulting from the removal of textiles from the quota system will also be examined during the discussions on the new GSP scheme.
This issue has also repeatedly been brought up during the EU-China Textiles Dialogue, initiated on 6 May&#160;2004.
During the last meeting held as part of this dialogue, in December&#160;2004, we had the impression, for the first time, that the Chinese authorities had started to understand the problem and the European Union's message, because they announced measures favouring a number of developing countries.
With regard to measures favouring the European Union's textiles and clothing industry, the Council has been insistent in calling on the Commission to take a greater interest in the strategic sectors, namely innovation, including non-technological innovation, and the development of industrial cooperation with the Euro-Mediterranean partners.
Mr Schmit has already responded to Mr Barón Crespo by outlining the measures presented by the Commission and adopted by the Council.
Let me say again: it is extremely important to adopt measures to step up the fight against fakes and piracy, to enforce intellectual property rights, to establish an action plan in response to the existing trade barriers in third countries, to promote high-tech and ultra high-quality textiles and clothing, including via the EU's research and development programmes, and to guarantee lifelong learning and vocational training and development.
We must also consider how trade developments in this area will impact on the highly vulnerable textile and clothing sector.
For those countries affected by the liberalisation of textile quotas, the best option would be to adopt measures to improve the range of goods they offer.
For the ACP states, for example, a study is now being prepared which reviews the response strategy of those countries which are heavily dependent on exports of textiles and clothing.
Since it now transpires that, according to some estimates, hundreds of thousands of jobs, or at least thousands of jobs, are on the line, I can imagine that thought is being given to protective measures or the temporary reintroduction of part of the quota system in order to give the industry a little more time to adjust.
It is therefore entirely justifiable for the textile sector to receive special support from the Union’s institutions and also from the Member States and regional authorities.
It has to be said that the strategy proposed by the High Level Group on the textile sector provides for a most appropriate course of action.
I very much doubt, Commissioner, that the Commission’s action plan of 13 October 2004 will be enough to help the European textile industry in its fight for survival.
The plan provides for support measures, but does not contain any trade-related measures at all.
In short, Commissioner, what we expect from the Commission is a more trade-minded and more pro-active approach.
Therefore, for the sake of protecting the jobs of thousands or even millions of workers and the industry itself, the safeguard clause must be applied urgently, since it will only have a positive effect if it is used soon. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, now that the quantitative import controls for the textile and clothing industry have been abolished, there is great concern about the future of the textile and clothing industry in the EU.
Labour had moved to better paid jobs in the engineering industry, and what remained of the textile and clothing industry had moved on to more advanced products.
The whole episode stood out as a tale with a happy ending from both an economic and a social point of view.
For the EU to become a leading, dynamic, knowledge-based region, its socioeconomic system must succeed in compensating for a decline in the textile and clothing industry by means of a transition to more sophisticated textile and clothing products and strong growth in other sectors.
The High Level Group and the Commission have proposed seven actions to help the textile industry boost competitiveness in the sector: they are all important, but I would give particular emphasis to one of these.
Together with actions in the fight against counterfeiting, I would highlight the suggestion to take action to support traditional textiles with focused programmes, not least so that we can avoid further official approval of textile goods, which is certainly of little use in the context of celebrating regional identities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, our textile and clothing industry is in bad shape.
In my own region of Nord-Pas-de-Calais, historically an important textile-producing area, towns such as Elesmes, Roubaix and Tourcoing have witnessed the closure of their businesses.
The social situation is already serious and yet it is going to get worse in future.
Until now, quotas have made it possible to limit imports of textiles from third countries, but on 1&#160;January&#160;2005 the door was opened to imports on a massive scale from China.
Imports of trousers made in China between 1&#160;January&#160;2005 and 2&#160;February&#160;2005 increased by 792% compared to the same period in 2004.
Before it is too late, and regardless of the opinion of Guillaume Sarkozy, President of the French textile industry union and a fierce advocate for the delocalisation of businesses, we must not wait to see our internal market flooded before we demand a return to customs barriers and safeguard clauses.
These figures show how necessary it is to put in place a strategy that can help the textile and clothing industry to cope with changes connected with the disappearance of quotas.
According to declarations made by Chinese importers, imports of many categories of textile products into Europe have doubled, or even trebled, since quotas ended on 1&#160;January&#160;2005.
The EU respects its commitments within the WTO.
The textile and clothing market must remain open and competitive.
I am thinking of Bangladesh, Cambodia and our Mediterranean neighbours.
It was almost ten years ago that the European Union decided to enter into a partnership promoting development in the Euro-Mediterranean region.
The question of textiles therefore points more than ever to the need to establish a real free-trade area as soon as we can. &#160;&#160; – Although the textile and clothing industry has lost some ground across the European Union in general in recent years, it is still very important in some countries of the Union and, in fact, the economies of several regions are actually structured around it.
Since January, as has been mentioned here already, international trade quotas for these products have disappeared.
Ignoring social or environmental concerns, China allows its companies to sell at exceedingly low prices.
Despite the commitments made by the Chinese authorities in recent months to impose their own limits on exports from their country, the fact is that the indicators that we have are giving us great cause for concern.
The district of Castres-Mazamet acquired its industrial nature from the wool pulling and leather industry.
For many years now, the SMEs in this sector have been closing down one after another.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, do we not have a duty to protect the European textile and clothing industry?
It involves more than 2&#160;600 companies that employ over 72&#160;000 workers.
An active role by the EU is the best way to achieve social cohesion and the maintenance of the living standards we have come to expect in this part of the world. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the liberalisation of the markets for the profitability of big business and within the framework of the WTO included, among other things, the abolition of textile import quotas in Europe.
The textile sector is on its knees, with all the consequences that has for developing the economy and for our fellow citizens’ well-being.
Market reaction has been immediate in these first two months of 2005.
Even before that, however, we need to understand the Commission’s and the Member States’ philosophy.
The European quality mark, with the European nation of origin specifically mentioned on it, is thus in our view the primary objective to be achieved if we want to ensure, not protection of Europe as such, but rather respect for what Europe produces.
We look forward to a reassuring answer, Commissioner; otherwise, we shall be forced to think that, as Europe progresses, some manufacturing industries in Europe including Italy, – as it concerns me directly to a great extent – will be forced to shut up shop and wave goodbye to social cohesion and the European model. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank those who initiated today’s debate.
We are facing a serious problem that has affected many textile factories in my country, Poland, as well as in the EU as a whole.
If this were only a matter of a free market, cheaper products or a cheaper workforce, it would be hard for us to protest, given that the European Union itself promotes the principle of a free market.
In view of this, the European Union must join forces to defend Polish, French and German companies – indeed all companies throughout the European Union – from what must quite simply be called unfair competition. &#160;&#160; – The textile and clothing industry in Europe is facing a serious crisis.
The crisis is also concentrated in certain regions that are in themselves already disadvantaged and will now be much more vulnerable.
With the shake-up in the sector, we have seen massive relocation of production in recent years as well as mass redundancies, the vast majority of which involves poorly-skilled women.
The result is well known and leaves no room for doubt: a loss of 20 to 25% of factories and jobs over about ten years.
First, it should stringently monitor all imports into the single market, and not hesitate to act through the safeguard clauses.
Secondly, it is important to look into the relocation of textile companies, as well as cases of fraud and of companies that had been given support before closing down.
This development has already created the first adverse consequences in Greece, with uncontrolled imports of Chinese products, which hit not only the textile and clothing sector, but also consumer safety, with poor quality, cheap products.
The textile and clothing industry manufacturing base is shrinking.
Industries and handicrafts close daily in Greece, while others relocate to neighbouring Balkan countries.
In the face of this dramatic development and taking account of the data of the WTO, which forecasts that China will control 50% of the world textile market in the next two years, I fear that the European Commission is merely monitoring developments.
He recently said to the French newspaper , that ‘according to a study commissioned by the OECD, the omission of the textile quota will save each family EUR 270 annually’.
Unfortunately, Mr Mandelson ignored the thousands of families who, as a result of the abolition of the quota and of the resulting Chinese ‘tidal wave’, will lose their jobs, if they have not already done so.
Moreover, Mr&#160;Mandelson has drawn rather hasty conclusions, because he overlooks, whether consciously or not, the fact that the expected falls in price will affect only a very limited range of textile and clothing products, and will therefore have a very limited effect in general.
That can be done on the basis of the price of raw materials on the international markets.
Secondly, Commissioner, what safeguard measures – and this subject has already been expressly mentioned here – would you consider in order to prevent certain product categories in Europe from being wiped off the map as a result of unfair competition?
I hope that the Commissioner will not fob us off again with a bromide that our textile industry has had ten years to adjust, for that would be the height of oversimplification. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is not, of course, the case that the textiles industry has been dormant in recent years.
It is, of course, often pointed out that this industry has had ten years in which to adapt to the situation.
The fact is, though, that China now dominates 20% of the world market, and in three or four years' time, this share will have risen to 50%.
China has the lowest wages and its energy costs are also a third lower – and what was that about its human rights record?
Over the next three to four years, the number of jobs in Europe's textiles sector – currently standing at 2.7 million – will be cut by half.
I ask this in my capacity as Vice-President of the International Textile, Clothing and Leather Workers' Association.
We cannot simply leave these workers to fend for themselves. &#160;&#160; – Since 1&#160;January, the volume of licensed textile imports from China in several textile categories has been up to seven times higher than in the corresponding period in 2004.
For several items, import licences in the last two months have already exceeded the total imports of the same items for the whole of 2004.
Firstly, in April, we will have a further debate on the issue of textiles, and the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and the Committee on International Trade will also hold a joint hearing on this topic.
Secondly, it is now 2005, which means that at the end of the year, we will have the WTO negotiations in Hong Kong.
I think this is a good opportunity to send out the signal to China to which many of my fellow-Members have referred, and to exert gentle pressure by diplomatic means.
We must find out more about what is happening, for example, in Tunisia, Turkey or our traditional EU Member States, both in terms of what is going well and what is going wrong.
If, in conjunction with the relevant Commissioners, you could provide us with this before the end of your Presidency, it would be more than helpful. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the Textile High Level Group contains indications for seven different measures to bolster competitiveness in the sector.
The group also recommended that a system should be set up to monitor Chinese imports from 1&#160;January 2005.
Secondly, regarding labelling of origin, I would ask the Commission and then the Council whether they intend to adopt measures soon that will make it compulsory to label goods with their origin, and I would point out that such a measure is strongly demanded by textile manufacturers in Italy and elsewhere. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the upheaval experienced by the global textile and clothing industry has hit those regions in Europe where textile production is heavily concentrated particularly hard.
This is the case for my region in France, the Nord-Pas-de-Calais, which has already been affected, over recent years, by restructuring and delocalisation and where this sector is the second-largest industrial employer, still providing work for more than 30&#160;000&#160;employees.
In 2004, Parliament, in a resolution, and the High Level Group on textiles and clothing both called for a specific programme for this sector, in particular in regions in difficulty, which have a large number of SMEs and a high employment rate among women.
In these regions, European aid has made it possible in recent years to mitigate the socio-economic impact of sectoral crises, to avoid job losses and to cushion the effects of economic restructuring thanks, in particular, to innovation, integration, training and the development of a modern industry.
At a time when the European Union is drafting its new financial perspectives, these regions are concerned about the future of the structural funds, which have contributed to economic development.
Mr President, the textile industry is a very important economic factor for all of us in Europe and, therefore, internal and external measures must be taken.
The Commission has proposed several actions to enhance the competitiveness of the European textile industry in its second communication on the textile industries.
The actions proposed include measures such as strengthening the fight against counterfeiting and piracy; enforcing intellectual property rights; establishing an action plan to address existing trade barriers in third countries; fostering advance technology and textiles and clothing with high added value under the EU's Research and Development Programmes; and ensuring lifelong education and vocational training.
Second, the Commission has established a system for monitoring imports of textiles and clothing products from China.
Open international trade is also a key factor in the competitiveness of the economy as a whole.
Access to third-country markets allows for the creation of jobs in Europe, which is also a key priority of the Commission.
We are therefore determined to do all it takes to achieve the objective of equal market access so that EU firms in these sectors can exploit their hard-earned know-how and quality.
I would like to emphasise again that the Commission is monitoring closely China's compliance with the WTO accession commitments, most notably in the framework of the EU-China Textiles Trade Dialogue signed in May of last year by the Trade Commissioner and his Chinese counterpart.
Additionally, in the framework of other dialogues between the Commission and the Chinese authorities, the Commission has requested that the issue of the sustainable development of the textile sector, and in particular the question of corporate social responsibility, be put on the agenda.
We are also conducting a study, which will be finalised shortly, on working and other manufacturing conditions in the textile and clothing sector in China.
In line with the Council's Presidency Conclusions from 2003, the European Union is committed to promoting respect for core labour standards through trade relations with third countries.
The Commission wants to examine all sides of the issue thoroughly before taking a final decision.
The Commission would like these guidelines to introduce transparency in the handling of the requests for safeguards that may be made, but it would also like them to introduce greater predictability in trade, for instance by providing some safe zones, generously established and providing for very large expansion possibilities below which we would not consider safeguard action. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; – Product quality and safety, protection for the environment and for social rights, consumer protection, compliance with international trade rules, and technological development: these are all points on which the European Union has taken a stand and is basing most of its political strategies for the coming years.
We must therefore ensure that, rather than being penalised, our values and our efforts – and along with them thousands of enterprises, especially small ones, which underpin our social fabric – are instead valued and protected both internally and at an international level.
We also demand a firmer stance in bilateral relations, so as to stop or limit the devaluation of the yuan, the ridiculous bank rates and the massive investment in new machinery that are helping the Chinese market to such a great extent. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0009/2005).
It requested the Council to agree on that framework with a view to opening the accession negotiations on 17&#160;March&#160;2005, provided that Croatia cooperates fully with ICTY.
The Commission transmitted the framework for negotiations on 31&#160;January.
Technical discussions were opened within the Working Group on Enlargement on 1&#160;February, in order to adopt a common position with a view to opening the accession negotiations on 17&#160;March.
Let me remind you, in this context, that the conclusions of the European Council of 17&#160;December&#160;2004 very explicitly requested Croatia to demonstrate full cooperation with ICTY.
In addition, the Council, following consultation with the European Parliament, decided in December&#160;2004 to give Croatia access to the pre-accession financial instruments –&#160;PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD&#160;– from 2005 in order to help that country to prepare for accession.
At the same time, the continuity of activities promoting cooperation with the Western Balkans covered by the CARDS programme is ensured. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I wish to inform you that, next week, our EU-Croatia Joint Parliamentary Committee will be meeting in Zagreb.
If the Council takes the view that the opening of negotiations should be conditional upon General Gotovina being arrested, then its opinion conflicts with that of the European Parliament, which has never made this a condition.
I have the Brussels Presidency Conclusions here, and they – in paragraph 15 – clearly urge Croatia to take steps to cooperate, stating also that, once the indictee is located, he must be transferred to The Hague as soon as possible.
The Croatian Government has offered its unequivocal support.
It is on the basis of this cooperation that the assessments will be made. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the assurances provided by the President-in-Office of the Council are very gratifying and are welcomed by the House.
Under Article&#160;2 of the Association Agreement concluded between the European Union and Israel, which entered into force on 1&#160;June&#160;2000, these provisions constitute an essential element of the Agreement, which guides the domestic and international policies of the two parties.
I asked you if the Council intended to recommend to the Israeli Government that it restore Vanunu's democratic rights and you give me a surreal reply to the effect that Israel is a democratic country and, within the framework of the neighbourhood policy with the European Union, will continue to honour the commitments it has made.
Once again you have set the wrong example with this provocative attitude of yours.
This standing force will consist of 5 000 national experts preselected by the Member States who shall be placed under a central coordinating authority after undergoing training.
In the conclusions of the extraordinary summit of the General Affairs and External Relations Council of 7 January 2005, the Council calls upon the Commission and its own competent bodies to examine the potential for developing an EU rapid response capability and also calls upon the Commission to submit proposals for a strategy for strengthening prevention, early warning and preparation measures for dealing with disasters, which recent events have proved necessary.
In the action plan, the Council invited the Commission and the Secretary-General and High Representative to present appropriate proposals, within their own fields of competence, on the creation of a European Union rapid response capability enabling us to deal with future disasters.
The Secretary-General has agreed to present his proposals to the Council as soon as possible and by 31&#160;March&#160;2005 at the latest. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Commissioner for external relations who formulated this specific proposal was here five minutes ago, opposite you.
The Council has clearly stated that proposals on this subject must be put forward simultaneously both by the Commission and by the Secretariat General, or by the Secretary-General and High Representative.
I think the tsunami disaster showed us that Europe needed such an instrument.
We will then have proposals for such a system. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, civil protection, which concerns the prevention of and dealing with natural or man-made disasters, is an objective of the European Union.
That is why it is important to involve, firstly, the Commission and, secondly, the Secretary-General and High Representative.
We have here before us a proposal from the Commission which will, I believe, enable us to improve the implementation of the Lisbon strategy, define more clearly the priorities of that strategy and – let me place particular emphasis on this – organise the governance of the Lisbon strategy more effectively.
It is therefore up to the European Council, on the basis of what the Commission has presented to us and in the spirit of the three Lisbon pillars – economic growth and competitiveness, adherence to the social model, and sustainable development and environmental protection – to propose a more effectively structured and clearly discernible strategy, integrating the various processes that are already being pursued.
I refer here to the Cardiff processes, the processes relating to sustainable development, the guidelines on employment, the broad economic policy guidelines and the like.
This is one of the main missions of the Presidency as we endeavour to propose a draft that can be accepted at the March summit. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I submitted my question before the communication on the part of the President of the European Commission about the text for the new momentum for the Lisbon strategy.
However, as you know, the communication from the Commission and from Mr Barroso about the objectives for the mid-term review of the Lisbon strategy caused tremendous reaction and concern, because he told us that he has three sons and he will only look after the sick one, which is competitiveness.
The great challenge is to demonstrate that these three pillars are not mutually exclusive but form a truly unified entity.
The amount of this payment should guarantee that economic conditions in the regions where cotton can be grown are favourable enough to ensure that production continues and that cotton is not supplanted by other crops.
The establishment of ceilings for cotton production should also be seen in the context of the Doha round of WTO trade negotiations, during which the developing countries, and particularly the West African cotton-producing countries – which have featured prominently in this afternoon’s deliberations – expressed concerns about the cotton sector.
Since then, the Council’s competent preparatory bodies have drawn up an action plan to assist the tsunami victims in response to the conclusions of the European Council.
Among the proposed initiatives are measures that directly concern children, particularly in the fields of health and education, the aim being to get them back into the classroom as soon as possible.
For fuller information on the aid measures launched by the Union and its Member States, I refer the honourable Member to the Commission and to the Member States, as many programmes are also national programmes.
The Council condemns such acts and will support all efforts designed to combat the intolerable exploitation of the most powerless and vulnerable. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for your reply.
The message, then, seems to have been heard, and I think we shall try to work on a number of suggestions, targeting especially the problems to which the honourable Member refers. &#160;&#160; President-in-Office of the Council, it is a sad fact that many of those who will try to take advantage of the tragic situation in the tsunami countries will be European citizens.
This resolution focuses on fiscal measures which have, or may have, a significant impact on the location of economic activities within the Community, with potentially harmful measures being examined by the Code of Conduct Group on Business Taxation.
The group was to continue monitoring the standstill and rollback and report to the Council during this Presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office, I am referring to places such as the Isle of Man, the Channel Islands, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino and others – places that are hardly independent countries or, if they claim to be so, they still rely entirely on the goodwill of the European Union for their continued existence.
This directive also includes, in what one might call parallel provisions and through a number of agreements, the territories and countries he has mentioned.
These autonomous countries and territories are covered by the Directive on taxation of savings income or are at least required to apply its provisions. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my question to you has to do with tax competition, which, in my view, is now a given in Europe, and an integral element of the internal market.
It must be remembered that national governments are responsible for national fiscal legislation.
I also believe that there are lists which show whether countries, and territories too, adhere to the rules, particularly as regards money laundering.
The Council will come back to the implementation of commitments regularly’.
At its meeting on 31&#160;January, the Council went on to adopt a new series of measures in the form of an action plan designed to serve as a framework for all the initiatives that have been and will be taken by the Union and its Member States in response to the earthquake and tsunami in the Indian Ocean.
This operational action plan, which will be monitored by the competent Council bodies, also re-emphasises, in its introduction, the importance of ensuring that the resources committed in the wake of the recent earthquake do not prejudice any funds previously committed to development, particularly in Africa, in pursuit of the Millennium Goals.
I am sure you will agree with me that it would be tragic if Africa – which faces a tsunami week in, week out in a less visible way through the ravages of famine, its climate and diseases such as Aids - were to lose money as a result of our justified generosity towards the victims of the tsunami.
The Commission is required to render accounts, but the funds earmarked for Africa in the various frameworks, particularly that of the Cotonou Agreement, are reserved funds.
The issue has been raised previously and, each time, the Article 29 Group (the EU's data protection authority whose task is to ensure compliance with the rules on the protection of personal data) has delivered strongly critical opinions.
The declaration calls for the adoption of an instrument on the retention of data on communications traffic by June&#160;2005.
In April 2004, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Ireland and France presented a proposal for a framework decision on the subject.
The Council asked the European Parliament for an opinion on the proposal, which it has begun to examine.
More recently, the Commission has expressed the view that some aspects of the draft framework decision relating to the harmonisation of data categories and data retention periods fall within the competence of the Community, which should be reflected in a directive based on Article&#160;95 of the EC Treaty.
The Council awaits the presentation of a proposal from the Commission for its consideration. &#160;&#160; – First of all, I should like to thank the President-in-Office for his reply.
My question was aimed rather more at the fact of there being a fundamental conflict between, on the one hand, the international conventions we signed in the Council of Europe, which are intended to protect citizens’ private lives and also the right to private correspondence and, on the other hand, the directive that you are discussing, which proposes storing all correspondence sent using certain technologies.
Even though certain limits are imposed in this directive, the fundamental conflict remains.
We may therefore expect the Council to adopt a basic position on these problems without wrapping them up in waffle about matters being taken into consideration.
I believe there is a very real concern to safeguard privacy and to comply with Article&#160;8 of the Human Rights Convention, and full account will undoubtedly be taken of this concern when the provision is re-examined. &#160;&#160; Questions 10 to 40 will be answered in writing.(1) &#160;&#160; – The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A6-0027/2005) by Mrs Bresso, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market and amending Council Directive 84/450/EEC and European Parliament and Council Directives 97/7/EC, 98/27/EC and 2002/65/EC and European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 0000/2004 (‘Unfair Commercial Practices Directive’). &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Bresso, the shadow rapporteurs and the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection for their highly constructive approach at second reading.
All the proposed amendments to the committee recommendation are acceptable.
This directive provides consumer protection and, at the same time, it is good both for the internal market and for our competitiveness in general.
The original text of the directive was based on harmonisation of consumer protection at a sufficiently high level on the one hand and application of the country-of-origin principle and mutual recognition on the other.
The most important amendments adopted by Parliament at first reading covered a wide range of issues, particularly the insertion of a definition of vulnerable consumers and codes of conduct, consumer participation in the drawing-up of the codes of conduct, as well as other amendments.
The common position which the Council sent to us was, of course, examined by the committee, and we decided in the first place to base ourselves solely on Parliament's amendments at first reading, above all so as to avoid reopening the debate on points already settled in the earlier discussions, which would have prolonged the time required.
On the country-of-origin principle in particular, which was omitted from the proposal, we believe it is no longer necessary to call for it to be included, in view of the level of harmonisation of consumer protection now achieved.
In particular, the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection unanimously accepted amendments on the following points: taking social, cultural and linguistic factors into account in defining the average consumer for legal purposes; a ban on a trader claiming that a product has been approved by a public or private body when it has not; a ban on promoting sales by pretending to be just a consumer or a private vendor; and, lastly, it is considered unfair practice to create the false impression that the consumer has won something when the prize does not exist or is subject to the consumer paying money.
In conclusion, I consider that, subject to the slight changes proposed, this directive is worth adopting, since it will mark a step forward for both consumers and traders in the EU, in terms of a secure legal framework and the protection of the rights enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union.
We have all been working on unfair commercial practices for a while and as progress was made, starting with the Green Paper up to second reading now, we have become increasingly aware of the need to allow the internal market to be not only an area in which the free movement of goods and services simply occurs, but also to turn it into an area in which this free movement occurs in the knowledge that all is done in accordance with fair practices.
It is a very balanced document because it offers a high level of consumer protection, as the treaty expects from us, but it also provides maximum legal certainty for the trader, which means that we can strike a perfect balance.
Mrs Bresso, I would, of course, like to thank you, in particular, for your commitment.
Although this proposal only deals with ‘B to C’, that is, ‘business to consumer’ relations, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is nevertheless pleased with the fact that this legislative document explicitly mentions that when an entrepreneur establishes that a competitor contravenes this directive, that that can be used by that entrepreneur to turn it into a case of unfair commercial practices, a case of distortion of competition, albeit in accordance with the national law of the country in question.
We are also satisfied that we have, at long last, managed to establish among ourselves who the reference consumer is, that we take the average consumer as a point of reference but that we do this without losing sight of the weak consumer.
The fact is that she, along with everyone else concerned, has helped to make it possible for us, today – or, rather, at tomorrow’s vote – to draw a line under the legislation in this area.
It has been a wonderful example of all the institutions working together at the second reading to get a good result.
I hope, and it seems from what has been said here already tonight, that we will all be able to give this proposal a fair wind.
As others have said, there are still concerns about the definition of vulnerable consumers.
I believe that the Commission, during the transition period, should give some consideration to these concerns.
We will, at last, have the ammunition to deal with that when this legislation comes into force across the European Union.
Under its 'better regulation' proposals, the Commission has new mechanisms to coordinate and push through transposition as quickly as possible.
Everyone has to agree to a conclusion like this and any one person can wreck it.
All of those who have spoken in the debate today have been contributors, both by withholding the negative power to destroy and joining the other institutions; the Luxembourg presidency and the Commission, and indeed the staff of our own committee, the Internal Market Committee, a new committee, to whom I would pay particular tribute, so that we brought about the right result here.
If you sail under false colours this directive will sink you.
It is not a bad start for this new committee and for this new Parliament and Commission.
In the course of their daily lives, consumers constantly have to make decisions on the basis of the very conflicting information they receive.
For that reason, we need common legal instruments that will guarantee high levels of consumer protection everywhere in the countries of the EU.
Harmonisation must not lower standards of consumer protection, which in some EU countries are very high.
Consumer policy should be based on guaranteeing high levels of consumer protection.
Mr&#160;President, the country-of-origin principle is not being applied, and should not be applied, in this directive.
This, though, also means that it is important that Article 4 should provide that the Member States may not restrict the free movement of services and goods on the grounds of unfair trade practices.
I think this comment is an important point of reference for the courts who will have to interpret this in future.
I am keenly aware of the need to take account of vulnerable consumers, who, by reason of various factors such as age, physical or mental incapacity, limited literacy or disability, require extra protection.
The Socialist Group has always vigorously contested this principle and will continue to do so in the context of the Services Directive, because the application of this principle only generates social insecurity and legal uncertainty for the public.
The adoption of this directive and Mrs&#160;Bresso’s report tomorrow is therefore of the utmost importance in the effort to protect consumers.
In this respect it would be a splendid triumph. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too shall begin by congratulating both the rapporteur, Mrs Bresso, and the shadow rapporteur for our group, Mrs Thyssen, on the excellent work they have done and the sensitivity, astuteness and sense of balance with which they have done it.
This represents an important moment in the internal market and the first landmark in this area during this parliamentary term.
Parliament has here a very important contribution in terms of key points, and all those who often underestimate our legislative work will be proved wrong.
During the previous term, it was because of Parliament that the common position after first reading included the following points: the notions of vulnerable consumer and binding commitment; greater procedural rigour in drawing up codes of conduct, including the participation of consumer associations; a more precise and comprehensive listing of aggressive and, as such, banned practices; the derogation clause, now extended to six years, to permit the interim application of more stringent national legislation; and the obligation on the Commission to report regularly to Parliament on the implementation of the directive and to propose updates when necessary.
Returning to the astuteness of the rapporteur and those who conducted and closely followed the interinstitutional proceedings, the second reading will also enable us to go a little further with consumer guarantees and protection, particularly in the area of child protection, outlawing the unfair exploitation of children through a number of duly considered and polished amendments, for which the final agreement of the Council is already assured.
I also made a modest contribution to some of these amendments, especially Amendment 17, and I should like to thank my fellow Members for all their understanding in accepting it and following it through, because I am aware that I tabled it only just within the time limit allowed by the Rules of Procedure for second reading.
However, it is one more consumer guarantee that has been put in writing – in this particular case, in the area of insurance – and that is clearly a positive outcome.
I am also one of those who believe that we should be moving towards the harmonisation of legislation in these areas, and that is what has been achieved here, which is a good sign for the future.
The Swedish members of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament still hold this view.
This is currently governed by the Television without Frontiers Directive which, in turn, is in danger of being fully harmonised as a result of this proposal for a directive.
This law must protect the vulnerable consumer.
I believe it is a great model of how we can deliver on behalf of citizens and consumers in a relevant and practical way. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me in my turn to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Bresso, for the quality of the draft that will be put to the vote tomorrow and which will serve to protect European consumers, especially those who are most vulnerable, against the aggressive tactics of unscrupulous operators.
This second reading of the common position on unfair commercial practices has demonstrated that, given the necessary political will, it is possible to formulate a European law which harmonises the wide diversity of national legal positions instead of pitting them against each other.
We must indeed remember that the European Commission, in its initial draft, proposed the application of the country-of-origin principle, and it was the Council that opted for a strategy of closer harmonisation, which our Parliament firmly supported at first reading.
I agree with Mrs Wallis that this is a good example of how cooperation between the three institutions can produce positive results for European citizens.
Most of the concerns expressed today are met by the legislation.
The derogation period of six years for higher protection and standards will be very useful.
Finally, I wish once again to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Bresso, for her excellent work.
I am proud and very happy and take it as my duty to ensure that it will be transposed properly by the Member States. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
I should also like to thank all the other members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for the attention they have devoted to this problem and to the materials provided.
This is proof that they consider the problem of protection of health in the workplace to be an important component of European policy.
There are a total of around five million occupational accidents every year in the EU.
Around two thirds of these result in absences from work lasting longer than three days, and almost 14% of workers suffer more than one occupational injury each year.
I am sure we all agree, however, that at least those tools that are available to us must be used as effectively as possible in order to improve working conditions.
We have been able to clarify certain misunderstandings with regard to a number of matters; for example, that it is of course up to the Member States to adopt appropriate national legislation, to monitor the application of this legislation and to submit national reports on its implementation in a timely fashion.
As rapporteur, I have attempted to cooperate on equal terms with all the political groups within the committee, and our collaboration has resulted in many balanced compromises.
Allow me to make a few comments with regard to their content.
The draft amendment to paragraph 6 aims to delete a very important passage, which emphasises the positive role of the trade unions and employees’ organisations in the field of health and safety at work.
It must be emphasised that paragraph 6, as included in the report, is the result of a compromise between all the political groups represented in the committee, including the Group of the European People’s Party.
All the political groups voted for this draft in committee.
The draft amendments 2, 3 and 4 are submitted in the same wording that was discussed, and eventually rejected, during the vote in committee.
In conclusion, allow me to say a few words on the most important points contained in the text on which we are to vote tomorrow.
I greatly welcome this report.
It thus responds to the Commission’s wish that the communication should provoke genuine and broad public discussion as to how best to promote health and safety at work and how to strengthen the European framework in order to provide an environment ensuring equal opportunities for all businesses in the enlarged Europe.
Since 1989, Europe has adopted a number of important pieces of legislation setting out the responsibilities and obligations of employers and employees.
This development is part of a long-term trend, even though it is true that the number of occupational injuries is still too high, and therefore unacceptable.
The Commission and Parliament are agreed on the need to enhance and support awareness, education and active participation by employees and employers in defining the policies for prevention at company level, and to enforce the principles laid down in this area under European legislation.
The Commission also agrees with Parliament on the need to develop additional legislative instruments to facilitate implementation, as well as labour inspectorates armed with structures, resources and deterrent powers in order to help change attitudes, as such a change is necessary for the proper and equal enforcement of legislation in the Union.
The Commission’s evaluation of the implementation of the framework directive and the first five individual directives, which was based on a thorough examination carried out in the field and on the results of assessments carried out by Commission services, points to areas where the directives are not be implemented adequately, and identifies the main problems requiring attention.
The Commission is delighted that Parliament agrees with the analysis carried out by the Commission, and that its report makes proposals which should improve the practical application of the legislation.
The recommendations made in the report deserve full support and, together with the results of the assessment of Community strategy for the period from 2002 to 2006 and the reactions of Member States and the social partners, will form the basis for the next Community strategy, covering the period from 2007 to 2012.
Today’s adoption of this report, which includes specific recommendations for the various players, is an important step along the road to increased interest and awareness among all those involved.
The Commission is grateful to Parliament and wishes to assure it that this recommendation will be taken into account as soon as deliberations begin with respect to the next strategy in the field of health and safety at work.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your efforts. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of our debate this evening is very important to citizens' prosperity and lies at the heart of the European social model which we all want to protect and improve.
That is why I thank the rapporteur, Mr Maštálka, for his initiative in drafting this report and I also wish, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, to express our thanks and our satisfaction, because the Committee's main proposals are included in the motion.
Thus it is emphasised that, according to recent statistics, there has been an increase in accidents in sectors employing women.
We also stress that we need to combat the discrimination suffered by women in the workplace, discrimination relating to motherhood and sexual harassment, which cause working women psychological problems.
Almost all the Member States have had infringement proceedings brought against them on the grounds of their failure to properly transpose the EU’s rules and regulations on health and safety at work.
It is for that very reason that we must have as our main and initial objective compliance with, and monitoring of, the existing regulations even before the EU enacts new regulations and directives and imposes requirements.
As the Commissioner mentioned, responsibility for the enforcement of the health and safety at work regulations lies principally with the Member States, the regulatory bodies and the local social partners.
These must be reinforced, as is indeed demanded by paragraph 12 of the report’s motion for a resolution.
If uniform conditions for competition are to be created, support for the new Member States is particularly important, for they have enormous potential for development.
Nor is it tolerable that small and medium-sized enterprises should bear the brunt of this legislation.
I have, in my capacity as shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, tabled a number of amendments that improve the report, changing it in such a way that it achieves its actual objective, which is the uniform implementation and monitoring of existing provisions in all the Member States, whilst avoiding the creation of new bureaucracy.
Every year, 4.8&#160;million people are victims of accidents at work, 5&#160;200 people lose their lives in the workplace, and at least 158&#160;million working days are lost.
Businesses often complain that it is too expensive to introduce these health and safety measures, but then the cost is very great if workers die or become chronically ill as a result of accidents at work.
The EU has already presented a number of directives on health and safety at work, and this legislation is working.
According to one estimate, EU legislation has prevented the loss of 25&#160;million European working days per annum, and many lives have already been saved, as the Commissioner, too, mentioned.
The accession of ten new Member States to the EU presents us with a great challenge as regards the creation of a good, safe working environment in these new Member States.
In many countries, the workers are not so well organised, and safety in the workplace has not been a topic for discussion.
We need a greater focus on prevention and implementation, something that is also proposed in the report, and, in this connection, we need a detailed survey of the specific situation in the new Member States, too.
It would be useful if the Commission were to draw up a report on this.
It would also be a good idea for evaluation reports in future to focus more on evaluating the degree of practical compliance with legislation by the Member States.
We must pay special attention to the situation in small and medium-sized enterprises.
I should like to say in a personal capacity that it is wrong to include references to the working time and services directives in paragraphs 27 and 29, because it still has to go through the parliamentary process.
While I am pleased that the reference to women and domestic work in the home in paragraph 16 has been removed to get away from gender stereotypes, which I know the rapporteur did not intend, my group has asked for a separate vote as paragraph 16 no longer makes sense as it refers both to men and women.
I thank everybody for their support on that.
I should like to thank Commissioner Špidla very much for the constructive meeting we had this afternoon on this subject.
There is no point in bringing forward completely new health and safety legislation unless current legislation is equally implemented in all Member States.
If, for example, you want to exclude trade unions from sharing responsibility for safety at work, that is an expression of a lack of desire for improvements in this area.
The free market must take second place to the workers’ fundamental right to health, safety at work and tolerable working conditions.
It is disturbing, and indeed shocking, that a research report should be able to state that no preventive measures are in place yet for around half the workers in the EU.
The home is not even recognised as a workplace, and no account is taken of workers in family firms, who are often women.
More accidents, with all their consequences, cost far more than a great many preventive measures ever could.
The health and safety of workers is paramount.
The enhancement of workers' rights and entitlements can only lead to a better quality of life for workers and their families.
The report indicates that a number of groups within society are particularly at risk with regard to workplace health and safety.
The improvement of conditions requires the universal recognition of trade unions as workers' representatives.
Trade unions are an essential element in the delivery of healthy and safe workplaces and practices.
In my country, there has been a dramatic increase in the numbers of teenagers working.
I was not surprised to read scientific research later that there is a probable connection between Down's syndrome and other developmental disabilities from exposure to inks, glues, paints and other workplace-related chemicals, such as those used in a printing works.
Directive 89/391/EEC is not specific enough to protect healthcare workers.
I feel that it is vital in every discussion in the area of workers and workplace, especially in health and safety, to discuss those workers who are denied the status recognition, benefits and protection of employees.
In terms of health and safety, they may benefit from the measures that are taken for their spouse, but there are no appropriate measures taken for their own needs.
Their health and safety situation is critical.
Lastly, I agree with the rapporteur that it is essential to have the input on health and safety regulations from the workers themselves.
It could not be simpler: ask people what they need; they will tell you, and then the money spent on health and safety will be spent well. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, 4.8 million accidents a year resulting in 5&#160;200 deaths and leaving 13&#160;000 victims with permanent disabilities.
This is not a new epidemic occurring outside our borders, Mr&#160;President, but something that is actually happening within the European Union.
Accidents in the workplace are a real tragedy and have incalculable human and financial costs.
The figures are still worryingly high, however, and, incredible as it may seem, more than 50% of European workers still have no access to accident prevention mechanisms.
The rapporteur exposes, in no uncertain terms, the inadequate and unacceptable way in which the Commission has dealt with the issue of health and safety at work over the last few years.
He makes concrete and logical suggestions on how to remedy the situation.
The importance of having proper legislation in this field and its effective and speedy implementation is clear.
We also expect that the new Commissioner will do his utmost to put right the deficiencies of the past.
First, more attention should be paid not just to the health of workers in the workplace, but also to their families.
The Commission report mentions simplified and improved benchmarking and the importance of existing legislation being evenly applied in all Member States.
It also mentions the importance of developing non-legislative instruments for the protection of workers.
Rather mischievously, the rapporteur has also used the opportunity of this health and safety report to promote, on the apparent basis of health and safety, the Atypical Workers Directive concerned with temporary agency work.
I agree with some of his points, but I hope he will forgive me for saying, as respectfully as I can, that I prefer the original Commission document. &#160;&#160; () Good evening everyone!
It is also necessary to pay greater attention to health and safety education both at the primary level of education as well as vocational schools and colleges.
In Slovenia we have very strict regulations for safeguarding health in the workplace, and obligatory training is also regulated.
Furthermore, it is an unfortunate fact that for every death around two people are crippled, or in other words disabled for life.
I believe that it was also right to say that it is not entirely correct to use the concept of new and old Member States, because since 1 May neither Member States nor problems relating to health and safety at work have been bound by geographical borders, and there are many factors involved.
In this strategy, we shall have to react in a sophisticated manner and take account of new risks or newly understood risks.
I am certain that we will be able to cooperate with this House to find the best way forward, so that it will be possible to record improvements in the situation in the next report.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
It is true that companies in this sector are still adapting to economic competition and to global market conditions, however, and this is why restructuring has been carried out so regularly in this sector.
These capabilities have been demonstrated in the past, and I am sure they will be demonstrated again in the future.
It is essential that this sector, in common with all industrial sectors and services, adapts constantly, and these adaptations form the basis of future prosperity.
The company is also responsible for any social consequences that a partial stoppage of production may have.
It is likely that the workers affected will be redeployed to other activities within the plant, but in any case solutions other than redundancy should be found, in accordance with well established procedures.
If redundancies are essential, steps should be taken to help the affected workers to adapt to the new circumstances.
These principles for the management of restructuring were established three years ago by European social partners themselves, on the basis of a Commission request.
The Commission has recently proposed that the Lisbon strategy for growth and employment be renewed.
In order for us to achieve this ambitious goal in the context of the significant economic and social changes we are currently experiencing, we must successfully overcome the problems of restructuring.
The social agenda adopted by the Commission a fortnight ago also includes measures which will help our companies, our workers and all other parties involved in the process of change to put any advantages to the best possible use, and to resolve any problems.
In a few weeks’ time I intend to propose that the Commission should adopt a communication on the European Union’s general strategy for the management of restructuring and an ambitious programme to enhance the potential for economic renewal and make provision for related problems.
The key phrase in this strategy will be preparing for the future at all levels.
I propose that the Commission should use this communication to entrust European social partners with the task of implementing the second phase of consultation on two major themes, namely on the role of European works councils as mediators of change, and on the use of general principles laid down by social partners on the management of restructuring.
There is also a need to strengthen social dialogue at sector level, and this dialogue must supplement Community industrial policy.
Different forms of social dialogue need to be developed, with the main one with regard to preparation for and management of change and restructuring being collective bargaining.
The social agenda depends on the creation of a non-binding optional Community framework, which would facilitate the conclusion of supranational collective agreements and represent a specially adapted instrument for restructuring at European, and even global level.
These are a few elements of the strategy which we should like to develop in partnership with the other Community bodies, the social partners, public authorities at all levels and all those for whom the strategy is intended.
I am aware that this kind of political initiative does not provide a direct and immediate answer to those affected by the restructuring of the plant in Terni.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, today’s Europe, which has been built on the foundations of the European Coal and Steel Community, is in danger of seeing its own origins rejected at the heart of the steel industry in one of the founding countries.
The decision by ThyssenKrupp first to close the magnetic steel production line and then to lay off and release hundreds of workers at the Terni plant is not just a breach of all the agreements signed at the time of privatisation but also a decision that makes no economic sense.
The company has, in fact, been given special treatment by all the national and European institutions in a way that no other Italian company in the sector has.
The joint resolution on which we shall be voting tomorrow is not just a gesture of solidarity, but it seeks to represent Parliament’s commitment to mobilise the Commission and the Member States to intervene with initiatives to avert downsizing in the steel industry.
That is why all the institutions and all the political groups are being asked to draw up concrete proposals to protect the steel industry, jobs and also research, because research is conducted at the Terni plant as well.
That is why we appeal to the German Government again to intervene with ThyssenKrupp’s top management immediately, to make them realise the importance of the Terni plant and the mistake that they have just made. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how to regard the decision by ThyssenKrupp to make 630 workers redundant tomorrow morning – in addition to those already laid off in the magnetic steel sector.
Only a few days ago, the company sent a letter to Members of the European Parliament – I do not know how widely – in which it said it wanted to protect its position on magnetic steel and also to invest in stainless steel.
As if that were not enough, ThyssenKrupp no longer seems to show any interest in enjoying its infrastructure and energy-cost benefits, after repeatedly asking for them.
First of all, the company should be asked to accept its responsibilities with regard to the commitments it has made and the agreements it has signed.
We believe that dialogue between the parties is essential in order to find solutions to the current problems.
Lastly, I believe it is absolutely vital not only to provide answers on the state of restructuring processes across Europe but also to give some serious, in-depth consideration to the kind of industrial policy that Europe needs in order to deal with problems of competitiveness.
By discussing such important topics, Parliament can make a tremendous contribution to a positive solution for the Terni steelworks affair and can provide real prospects for the future of European industry. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has been called on to deal with a subject that is highly significant for the European Union’s economy: the future prospects of the steel sector.
It is doing so this evening after a long debate among the political groups in recent weeks, which has resulted in a broad compromise on the text of the resolution which is to be put to the vote tomorrow.
The topic in question should be seen in the context of achieving the Lisbon objectives as well as greater economic and social cohesion, since the sector employs a large number of workers in Europe, includes areas of excellence and produces technologically high-quality products.
These are genuine reference models for the whole world.
In its own investment plan, the company committed itself to making Terni the European centre of excellence for magnetic steel, based partly on the infrastructure and energy-cost benefits guaranteed by the Italian Government in June 2004.
That is what we have to resist – the flouting of Europe’s social benefits, which are essential to civilised life and work on this continent of ours, and also essential in terms of our own capacity for competition and innovation.
We in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will be voting in favour of the resolution. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, there are only a few of us here in the Chamber at the moment, although in fact a great many people are listening to us in a state of anxiety and distress.
Yesterday, a small delegation from that working community came to Strasbourg at their own expense.
Located in the region of Lake Trasimeno, with its little medieval towns and the mysticism of Saint Francis and the renaissance painters, Terni has, for 120 years, been a town of steel and steelworkers.
Its lifeblood is the steelworks and, through innovation, it has been able to protect and to improve its production for over a century, even during the war.
Only a few months ago, in June, the company signed an agreement with the social partners, witnessed by the Italian Government, to revitalise production at the Terni plant, and the European Parliament voted to support the agreement.
The situation is even more tragic and unacceptable when one thinks of the dignity of those European citizens and their families who have been protesting for more than a year, and of the rules for social dialogue in Europe, for which all the Community institutions have pleaded so hard, especially the Commission.
Furthermore, if all other approaches are constantly blocked, it would be appropriate to resort to public intervention to guarantee the future that would otherwise be denied. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we should like to make it clear yet again that the Acciai Speciali Terni affair must not be seen merely as a local affair and much less a national one, because it affects all European steelmaking, a vital sector of EU industry.
First, we need legislation on corporate social responsibility, combining competitiveness with respect for the rights of workers and regions.
Above all, however, we call on the Commission to stop dodging the main challenge facing Europe’s economy, on which the future of the European economic system depends: in other words, the ‘relocation’ crisis.
We therefore call on you to vote for our amendment. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party, the new PSI.
The hurried e-mail from ThyssenKrupp, full of promises, which was sent to Members of the European Parliament this afternoon in anticipation of this debate, is not at all convincing.
In 1950, Robert Schuman launched the High Authority for Coal and Steel, thus establishing the basis and the guidelines for an ambitious and comprehensive journey towards unification, and not just in the economic sphere.
The company must accept its own responsibilities and give up its confused and somewhat devious defensive tactics.
The appeal for intervention on the part of the German Government does not carry much weight.
Documents sent to me by Thyssen-Krupp state that the company invested EUR 700&#160;million in the last few years and received a total of EUR&#160;17 million in subsidies.
With a global steel market totalling one billion tonnes, it follows that domestic production of 1.2 million tonnes amounts to rather more than one-thousandth of global steel production, along with the 70&#160;000 tonnes of magnetic circuit band with which we are concerned, for it is here that there have been losses, the cause for which is to be found not only in Italy, but also in the laws enacted by the European Union, in the high cost of energy and in the legislation on the environment.
Over and above what is happening at Terni, it is for that reason that we demand, in paragraph 8 of the resolution, a communication, an inventory, and the setting-up of a high-level group, for we must, in the long term, safeguard steel as a raw material in the European Union, and hence its productive base and locations, albeit also independently of the latter.
This is an objective we all share, and so we support our Italian fellow Members in their initiative. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this House unanimously adopted a resolution on this very subject just over a year ago.
The outrage expressed from every quarter last year caused ThyssenKrupp to reconsider its decision to close its Terni plant.
It talks of the need to reinforce social dialogue, update legislation on collective redundancies and update and consolidate existing laws on information and consultation.
Finally, in the context of this debate, it underlines the need for improved corporate social responsibility.
Finally, Commissioner, you say that the Commission is powerless.
In short, we must keep forging if we are to keep our blacksmiths and steelworkers, and we must keep forging to acquire more know-how and invent the steels of tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the same ideas are being repeated in this Chamber about a situation which, alas, is emblematic – a case study – of so many other industrial situations typical of this continent.
Europe can and must provide a different response.
If we based our judgment solely on the harsh and unpalatable logic, which undoubtedly exists – the logic of numbers, which may appear solid but which are in fact intangible – we should neither understand the problem nor be able to analyse it, since the concepts invoked are delocation, globalisation and compatibility.
This is all part of the paradigm, not only of this particular multinational company, but also of so many other multinationals which, throughout their history, have often obtained large amounts of aid from national governments and significant incentives from the European Community, and then, with their traditional propensity to nationalise losses and privatise profits, carry on down this same path impervious to either guarantees or rights.
Frankly, I believe that greater weight must be given to this Parliament’s opposition and that the will of the people’s representatives must genuinely be made to count for something. &#160;&#160; Mr President, being myself a blacksmith and therefore wanting to express my concern about the steel sector, I too would very much like to thank Mr Tajani.
At the end of the day, this is also about how we guard the steel industry against the threat of the international hedge funds, with their speculation in steel, coke and coal meaning that responsible management is now no longer possible.
This is where the Lisbon process imposes on us the responsibility of focussing on Europe’s lawmaking and of standing up for our industrial firms in order to safeguard the jobs they provide.
Seeing as we do today that five million jobs have been lost in Germany, and that there are five million more unemployed, we really do have to give some thought to how we get Europe’s industrial policies to create new jobs rather than doing away with ones that already exist.
The steel industry is an important sector for us: it accounts for a fifth of all global manufacturing.
It should therefore cut its greenhouse gases either by investing in new technology or by purchasing emissions rights.
The steel industry in my country is indeed one of the cleanest in the world.
Europe needs its own steel sector: it lies at the heart of our basic manufacturing, and we have to remain self-sufficient.
At the same time, it is obviously essential that our trading partners, starting with the United States of America, should join the Kyoto Protocol. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it was announced this morning that a further 600 workers have been laid off by ThyssenKrupp.
The problem of Terni, Commissioner, is the problem of Italian and European industry as a whole.
Europe, within the Lisbon Strategy and the Stability Pact, must rethink a policy to stem the distorted effects of globalisation, which itself needs to be reconsidered.
Public action must provide the motive power for innovation, research and industrial renewal, based on a new competitiveness – not one which involves destroying the industrial fabric of both Italy and Europe.
As part of the current debate on the Financial Perspective, we need to ask ourselves what resources have to be committed to investment in order to relaunch economic development and create new jobs.
Firstly, exactly one year ago, on 10 February 2004, we were discussing here in Parliament the case of Terni, the steel industry and the wider crisis in European steel-making.
The exceptional mobilisation of the workers and citizens of Terni and Umbria, as previously referred to, played a leading part in that political process.
This must be the starting point for the renewal of a powerful unity which will again leave ThyssenKrupp in an isolated position.
A second comment also drawn from my union background: why has ThyssenKrupp chosen today to take two apparently contradictory initiatives?
It has sent us the letter describing the problems in detail, while simultaneously laying off, or threatening to lay off, a further 600 workers, for more or less plausible reasons.
The unanimous agreement on the resolution shows that the concern is neither isolated nor rhetorical, but is a general and international recognition of the gravity of the situation.
That, of course, does not convince us; on the contrary, it is even more worrying in the light of the 600 workers being laid off.
It is quite clear that the European steel industry is a very important component of our economy and, in its own way, of our European identity.
It is also quite clear that consideration is given in the Lisbon strategy to industrial policy.
One of the strategic decisions included in this document is to support European industry and to facilitate its stabilisation and development, since industry is a key part of our European civilisation.
It is of course clear that restructuring of this kind is always accompanied by social problems and difficulties, and this is why we need a public policy which enables these sectors, regions and workers to make the necessary adjustments, and which guarantees an appropriate level of protection.
I should like to reaffirm the importance of social dialogue when preparing for and managing restructuring.
The communication I mentioned will therefore represent a second phase of consultation with European social partners on issues relating to the restructuring of companies and on European works councils.
I firmly believe that the social partners will take up this challenge, and enter into negotiations aimed at introducing mechanisms for the implementation and monitoring of guidelines for restructuring, and that they will also exploit the capabilities of European works councils as mediators of change within companies.
With regard to the matter of whether Thyssen was granted any Community funding in Italy, the Commission has approached the competent Italian bodies for an answer to this question, and we are currently awaiting their response.
It is quite clear that what the steel industry needs is innovative measures, and that this industry is a source of outstanding innovations, since metallurgical processes always involve the use of high technology.
There is much debate over the REACH directive, and while I do not believe that anyone is in any doubt as to whether consideration should be given to this directive, it is clear that it must be balanced and that it must be focused on its goals.
The enforcement of the Kyoto Protocol can in any case be regarded as a success story for the European Union, and there can be no doubt that it is a major global success for the stability of our world as a whole.
Ladies and gentlemen, the steel industry is worthy of our attention, and restructuring, which is part of modern life, calls for a comprehensive European policy, the involvement of social partners and a desire to respond to these challenges.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
