Equal treatment between men and women engaged in a self-employed capacity - Pregnant workers (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Mrs Lulling, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity and repealing Directive 86/613/EEC - C6-0341/2008 -; the report by Mrs Estrela, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 92/85/EEC on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding - C6-0340/2008 -.
I call on the ALDE Group to withdraw these amendments.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality has unfortunately adopted another report containing 74 amendments, the majority of which have no direct link with the initial objective presented in the Commission's proposal, which was to strengthen the foundation of maternity protection by improving the health and safety of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding.
I should like to make it clear that this directive does not concern female self-employed workers, female assisting spouses or the partners of self-employed workers.
The proposals in my report are therefore the result of a highly participatory process and of many working meetings with all those interested in equipping the European Union with a directive on maternity leave appropriate to our times.
Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to start by thanking Mrs Estrela and Mrs Lulling for their report.
Seen in this context, I think it is necessary to improve legislation in the sphere of maternity and parental leave.
These include: Amendment 11 on demographic trends, Amendment 25 stressing the need for better harmonisation between working and family life, Amendment 50 on support for Member States in promoting part-time work, Amendment 35 on optional maternity leave before birth, Amendment 53 clarifying that women on maternity leave may have their salaries raised, and Amendment 56 on workers' retirement rights.
The Commission therefore rejects the amendments relating to paternity leave.
The idea is sound, but even in this case I believe that a revision of Directive 92/85/EEC is not the right way to go about it.
This applies, for instance, to Amendment 30 concerning the right to refuse night work.
I believe that pregnant or breast-feeding women should have the possibility any time of refusing night work without having to state their reasons for doing so.
Therefore, the Commission cannot accept Amendment 68.
That is why the Commission is in a position to accept (either in their entirety or in principle) a substantial majority of the amendments presented by the rapporteur: primarily Amendment 15 on maternity leave for women engaged in a self-employed capacity and Amendment 18, which is aimed at reintroducing Article 7 of Directive 86/613/EEC relating to recognition of the work of assisting spouses.
I would, nevertheless, like to point out that the Commission cannot accept Amendment 14 concerning social protection for assisting spouses.
The proposal of the Commission stipulates - and this is a statutory obligation laid down for the Member States - that assisting spouses should have, at their request, the same level of protection as that enjoyed by persons engaged in a self-employed capacity.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this adjustment in working hours after birth should not be the exclusive right of women, as the spouse, partner or parent should also be able to request this from their employer.
The subject is 'equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity'.
Mr President, the purpose of the Council directive from 1986 was to apply the principle of equal treatment of women and men engaged in a self-employed capacity, to give assisting spouses a clearly defined professional status and to establish their rights and minimum guarantees.
The proposal to ensure that women who are self-employed have the possibility of taking up to 14 weeks of maternity leave, including two weeks of mandatory leave, is deserving of support, as is the proposal to give them the right to benefit from social security cover for assisting spouses on the same basis as self-employed workers.
I was pleased to hear in this House Commissioner Špidla supporting the extension of the maternity period, as was approved by our Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality has provided a good contribution here towards ensuring a social Europe, and I would like to sincerely thank both of the rapporteurs, Mrs Estrela and Mrs Lulling.
On the one hand, it is necessary to include fathers in the framework strategy to improve the balance between professional and family life.
This is important in the case of the directive on assisting spouses and the assisting member of unmarried couples.
Before the European elections, we want to send people, especially fathers and mothers, a clear and definite signal that, in times of crisis, the concept of a social Europe will not be abandoned, and clearly state that we aim to invest in people, in future generations and in demographic change.
I would also like to ask Commissioner Špidla, in connection with the inclusion of fathers in the legislation, to think again and, together with us, to fight in the Council for progress with regard to maternity leave and ensuring a better balance between work and family life.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate and thank Mrs Estrela for her report and the quality of it.
Women and mothers who are in families where there are many children suffer discrimination both in the job market and from the pension system.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL group. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lulling has undertaken a difficult but necessary task.
In most EU Member States, carers and helpers, especially wives or husbands, have no legal status and their work is not recognised, in spite of the fact that their activities account for more than 11% of self-employed work in the European Union.
That is why I am endorsing the proposal to make social insurance in the countries of the European Union mandatory.
These situations often arise particularly in the new Member States, where the business activities of self-employed people still lack proper planning. (HU) The family is the fundamental value of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
It is not a good idea to extend the occupational safety regulations which apply exclusively to pregnant women and nursing mothers to fathers as their occupational safety arrangements do not require any change as a result of them becoming fathers.
If we agree to extend the regulation's legal basis to cover Article 137 of the EC Treaty and we extend the scope of the regulation to cover parental leave, two regulations would apply concerning parental leave, including paternity leave as well.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to us that paternity leave and co-maternity leave be regulated here, as this directive also concerns equal treatment between women and men.
Motherhood and fatherhood are fundamental rights that are very important to ensure balance in society.
It is also very important that both parents participate in a child's life from the very first months.
Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Estrela for the work she has done with such enthusiasm. (EL) Mr President, the report by Mrs Lulling on self-employed workers is a full report and she personally has worked so much on this issue that I do not think that we need say any more about her.
We have a directive which relates solely to women, because only they give birth, only they get pregnant and only they can nurse.
We therefore want in this directive to set out rights for men, while there is the other social partners' directive on parental leave which can cover men in the manner decided by the social partners.
As this is the final plenary debate of this parliamentary term on this subject, we must acknowledge that Parliament has definitely been the European institution which has taken most seriously the rights and socio-economic status of women, including pregnant and self-employed women.
Delays and inadequate enforcement are common in Member States.
After all, this directive concerns health and safety and not parental leave.
My third point concerns maternity and childbirth leave for self-employed women and assisting spouses.
It is particularly important that fathers are included in bringing up children.
It is unacceptable to refuse to appoint a woman to a job who is pregnant and is due to go on maternity leave.
The dual combination of the right and the freedom of choice, as well as family obligations and a career is a good practice which may be recommended to all Member States.
In fact, this is part of the integrated policy on equal treatment for women and men. (DE) Mr President, the Member States are clearly responsible for legislation in the field of healthcare.
We have varied legislation in the Member States, which cannot be compared.
In all cases, however, the mother is assured protection in case of illness, even after the maternity leave has ended.
Savings made at the expense of children are the worst kind of investment in the future.
Combining family and professional life should be our foremost priority in resolving Europe's demographic problems. (PT) Mr President, I want to talk about Mrs Estrela's report on improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers.
Despite the fact that the Estrela report brings some very positive amendments to the draft directive, there are also some contentious points which in my opinion do not belong in this report and which must be removed, as Commissioner Špidla has already mentioned.
Thus I believe that it should be made compulsory for assisting spouses to join the social protection system, and a framework of minimal guarantees should be established.
The first was the issue of paternity leave.
I would like to state clearly that, even though I am in favour of paternity leave, I am still convinced that a directive that is designed to protect the health of mothers is not a suitable instrument for the introduction of this particular principle.
In my opening speech I stated that the social partners had reached an agreement over parental leave, and it would be logical to include the possibility of paternity leave in this agreement.
Of course, social protection costs money, for self-employed workers as well as for employed workers.
Madam President, Commissioner, I am shocked at the European Commission's position on my proposal for paternity leave.
Commissioner, I have not talked about parental leave, but about paternity leave.
It is here in this directive that paternity leave and maternity leave must be brought together.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 6 May at 12 noon.
Self-employment is of great importance for women because it could be of great help in avoiding unemployment or in better reconciling professional and family life.
As a Social Democrat and mother, I support this directive as it concerns the following issues: the health and safety of pregnant workers, of women who have recently given birth or are nursing their child, equal treatment issues, as well as the right to return to the same or an equivalent job, the right to a career, regulations on leave and labour contract rights or granting more generous financial support during maternity leave.
