The European Ombudsman's activities (2008) (debate) The next item is the report by Chrysoula Paliadeli, on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, on the annual report on the European Ombudman's activities in 2008.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, on 21 April 2009, the European Ombudsman submitted his annual report on his activities in 2008 to the outgoing President of the European Parliament, Hans-Gert Poettering.
An unprecedented number of inquiries was completed in 2008.
The Ombudsman's website was updated regularly throughout 2008 in order to transform it into a modern, dynamic and interactive service.
However, it is not enough for EU institutions and bodies merely to follow the law.
One example from 2008 was the refusal of the Commission to change its stance in an age discrimination case.
I was gratified that Parliament dealt with this report expeditiously and that Mr Martínez Martínez's report, adopted by plenary in May 2009 without a single vote against, reflected entirely the concerns I had raised.
This network now consists of roughly 95 offices in 32 countries and includes the Committee on Petitions.
It also means that complaints are resolved more promptly and effectively, thus ensuring that citizens can fully enjoy their rights under EU law.
This body may be my own department, the Committee on Petitions, the national ombudsman's department in the complainant's Member State of origin, or the cross-border online network, SOLVIT.
So far this year, over 23 000 people have used the guide to obtain advice.
An accountable and transparent EU administration is, and must remain, key to building citizens' trust in the EU.
Of particular importance regarding transparency in 2008 was the Commission's proposal to reform Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 on public access to documents.
Its entry into force will provide a good opportunity for the Commission to submit a new proposal that would reflect this new reality and would strengthen the fundamental right of access to documents of the EU's institutions and bodies.
Maximising transparency and accountability, and promoting and helping entrench a culture of service to citizens, are key factors in the fulfilment of this task.
As the Ombudsman pointed out when he presented his annual report back in April this year, the crucial work is about building citizens' trust in the EU.
Regarding complaints to the Ombudsman, we saw a 6% increase compared with 2007.
The Commission has been working hard on this issue and we will soon be able to submit a proposal to the Ombudsman.
In 2008, 36% of all investigations were either settled by the institution complained against or resulted in a friendly solution.
As you know, the Commission has its own code, and that is broadly in line with the requirements of the Ombudsman.
So, all in all, in 2008 we saw both progress and possibilities for further improvements by our institutions.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Diamandouros, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), to congratulate the rapporteur most sincerely on the work she has done and on the spirit of cooperation she has shown throughout the process of drafting this report.
We are giving our verdict today on the annual report on the European Ombudsman's activities, which was presented on 21 April.
Appointed by the European Parliament, the Ombudsman gives us a formal account, via this report, of all the results of his inquiries into complaints concerning cases of maladministration within our European institutions and agencies.
Indeed, in this report we note the increasing number of complaints lodged with the Ombudsman.
The majority concern the European Commission, the institution that, admittedly, comprises the largest number of officials, but essentially, they are cases of an alleged lack of transparency.
In particular, he has always been able to maintain good relations with and between the institutions, which has helped the institutions and agencies in question to accept an amicable solution or to settle certain disputes, with a few exceptions.
The report that we have adopted in committee underlines and points out the importance of the adoption of a code of good administrative behaviour by all of the European institutions and agencies, a code that was already approved by the European Parliament eight years ago.
This repeated call by our committee must not remain unanswered.
The right to good administration by the institutions and bodies of the European Union is a fundamental right laid down in Article 41 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union included in Part II of the Treaty of Lisbon, which is no longer a fantasy but a reality.
First of all, I would like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Paliadeli, for her excellent report.
Secondly, in my role as coordinator for the Committee on Petitions and as a member of the Committee of several years standing, I would like to welcome and mention the excellent cooperation and collaboration we have continually had with the European Ombudsman, Nikiforos Diamandouros.
As the coordinator of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament for the Committee on Petitions, I must express concern about the large number of cases where alleged maladministration was caused by a lack of transparency on the part of the European institutions.
I must stress that it is the duty of both the European Parliament and the Committee to resolve this problem.
It is our duty to restore European citizens' confidence in the European institutions.
Finally, I wish to support the European Ombudsman's initiative in strengthening cooperation with national ombudsmen and similar institutions in a joint effort to reinforce the trust of European citizens.
It is one of the most important jobs and functions in the European Union: attending to the rights of citizens.
Mr President, my thanks to Mrs Paliadeli for a splendid report.
This will bring about a tangible strengthening of the Ombudsman's position and therefore also of the legal status of the citizens.
I think you should give attention to working with ombudsmen from different countries, not just from EU Member States, but also from the Member States of the Council of Europe, because they sometimes do more to represent the state to the citizens than the citizens to the state.
Under Plan D (democracy, dialogue, debate), we need to show the citizens that the European Union and its institutions are transparent and are serving the citizens.
Many thanks, Mr Diamandouros, for your work with our fellow citizens.
Congratulations Mr Diamandouros. (DE) Mr President, young students have asked me to report on current events and goings on in Austria and also in parts of Germany here in the plenary session of the European Parliament.
For that reason, we should, in fact, support it - it is democracy in action. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Chairman of the Committee on Petitions and on behalf of all of the committee's members, I wish to thank the Ombudsman for the work he has done and for the precise report he has produced.
Studying the 2008 report of the European Ombudsman, we see that, unfortunately, the objective of applying the principle enshrined in Article 41 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights is still far from being met.
The right to report cases of maladministration to the Ombudsman, exercised by 3 406 European citizens in 2008, demonstrates an increasing level of dissatisfaction, given that in 2007, the figure was 3 211.
Moreover, it is some consolation to learn that only part of these complaints were considered to come under the remit of the European Ombudsman, because a large proportion of the complaints not taken up by the European Ombudsman were transferred to other bodies, including the Committee on Petitions, which I chair.
I believe that we must improve, though not change, the functions of these bodies; we have a duty to improve the effectiveness and the productivity of the instruments that we have given to the citizens, if we really want to help build a Europe of the peoples. (HU) As a member of the Committee on Petitions, I too would like to say a few words.
I am merely saying it will happen, and it would be better that Parliament facilitate it rather than be pushed to do so. (ES) Mr President, as a member of the Committee on Petitions, I would like to add a couple of observations on the amendment tabled by our group in relation to the Paliadeli report on the annual report on the European Ombudsman's activities.
The situation is no different for other Member States.
The European Parliament is therefore proposing an extensive information campaign.
Last year, my fellow countrymen made 66 complaints to the European public defender of rights out of almost 800 cases from the EU as a whole that fell within the remit of the European ombudsman.
These problems were handled by 70 officials, costing the taxpayer EUR 9 million.
To close, I feel that an effort must be made to give European citizens more information about the role and powers of the European Ombudsman, so that they take fast recourse to him when their basic rights are infringed. (ES) Mr President, I would like my first words to be words of congratulation, as is only right, to Mrs Paliadeli, on the report she has presented, first of all before the Committee on Petitions and now here in plenary.
However, it is extremely important that we build our European institutions on the visions and ideas of those selfsame citizens and on what they believe democracy should be.
We all want to make our work more transparent, which includes Parliament's work as well. (PL) Mr President, Mr Diamandouros, as in previous years, the Ombudsman has presented a very objective report of his activities, from which can be established how important his mission is for the citizens of the European Union.
Once again, I congratulate you on your report. (HU) The European Ombudsman has done an outstanding job.
This sentiment has also been echoed by the Committee on Petitions, and I support his re-election.
At last, there is a mention of minorities in the Treaty of Lisbon, the 100 000 page acquis communautaire.
This requires clarification because 15% of Europe's citizens are indigenous or immigration minorities, which also includes 12 million Roma.
This is an extremely important and serious problem in Europe.
It would be ideal if the Ombudsman, as part of his work in the future - and I do hope he continues this job - could focus a great deal of attention on this issue. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have four comments to make on this report.
The first is that the Ombudsman is an indispensable part of a democratic European Union and, most importantly, one that is close to the citizens.
My second point is that, after initial teething troubles, the collaboration between the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman has been excellent.
The second challenge will be to continue promoting transparency within the European institutions.
Ombudsman, in any case, I wish you even greater success in the future. (EL) Mr President, my thanks to Mrs Paliadeli for her report.
The role of European Ombudsman is indeed a critical role, especially in these times when, with the Treaty of Lisbon, we are trying to create a more citizen-friendly Europe.
In general, this approach demonstrates an overall spirit of service towards citizens by the European institutions and, of course, the citizen - via this process as a whole and with the efforts which we must continue to make - feels greater confidence in all of us, in all the institutions of the European Union.
As such, and this brings me to the end, I consider that Mr Diamandouros was successful in his work and I think that today's debate and the report submitted give us very good reason to elect a new European Ombudsman for the next term of office.
European Ombudsman. - Mr President, let me begin by thanking very warmly all the Members of Parliament who have made very constructive and very positive remarks about the work of the Ombudsman.
If you bear in mind that we need to work in 23 languages, which requires a great deal of translation, I think this is not an excessive time.
We handle more than 11 000 requests for information in addition to complaints each year.
During my mandate, I have made more than 350 trips throughout the Union, and also have reached out to all sorts of constituencies and spoken in large numbers of areas.
With his impartial and objective stance towards strong institutions and bureaucratic attitudes, the European Ombudsman strengthened his standing, not only because he helped European citizens on matters of administrative negligence or inefficiency, but mainly because he strengthened their confidence in the European Union and its institutions.
We trust that proper administration of the obligations and rights of this institution by the European Ombudsman over coming years will promote sound administration in the institutions of the European Union even more effectively and will foster an even more citizen-friendly attitude on the part of its institutions.
We feel that this will vindicate not only the institution of the European Ombudsman and, indirectly, the institution of the ombudsmen in the Member States, but also a stronger role for the European Parliament, which controls and elects him.
Written statements (Rule 149) The report submitted by the European Ombudsman for 2008 is extremely balanced and comprehensive.
We note, first of all, an increase in the number of complaints registered by the Ombudsman during 2008 - 3 406 complaints, compared to 3 211 in 2007.
The main forms of alleged maladministration featuring in the inquiries opened in 2008 were the lack of transparency, including the refusal to supply information, and the abuse of power.
I find it alarming that 36% of inquiries are based on a complaint relating to a lack of transparency shown by European institutions, as European administration is a key element in building citizens' trust as part of the European project.
The EU is a jungle - not only in terms of its subsidies, but also in relation to its competences, its decision-making processes and even its Internet presence.
For example, random, intimidating house searches have been carried out by large numbers of masked commandos, without any authorised person of trust or other guarantee.
Article 41 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights states that 'every person has the right to have his or her affairs handled impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time by the institutions and bodies of the Union'.
Being familiar with the European Ombudsman's performance report for 2008, today we must unfortunately still acknowledge the fact that the most frequent type of maladministration in the EU institutions that is cited in complaints is a lack of transparency (36% of all inquiries).
For me, it is indeed worrying that, although the European Parliament approved the Ombudsman's Code of Good Administrative Behaviour in 2001 with its own resolution, the other institutions of the Union have not fully followed the requests made by Parliament.
I also personally appeal to the EU institutions and the future Ombudsman to increase the transparency of the EU's assessment processes and administrative structures, drawing up a code which will function effectively, in order to reduce maladministration in the EU.
