Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I take great pleasure in conveying a message of thanks to you this morning.
Mr Pilip was detained for 26 days in a Cuban jail for having established links with dissidents.
Thank you, Mr Wuermeling.
On Friday 16 February, as we all know, American and British warplanes attacked military targets outside Baghdad.
Although they could have done it straight away, back in 1991, the Iraqi Government did not take steps to set up an arrangement with the UN before 1995, when Iraq agreed to the 'oil for food' facility as set out in the UN Security Council resolution that year.
The UN Security Council adopted Resolution No 1284 in December 1999 which allowed for a suspension of the sanctions against Iraq following arms monitoring.
We have now reached an important point in our dealings with Iraq.
The sanctions which have been in place for 10 years have clearly not achieved their desired objectives.
The new US Secretary of State, Colin Powell, has said as much.
We must make sure that we will never again give Saddam Hussein the means to pursue aggression against his neighbours, or indeed against his own people.
The suffering of the Iraqi people is very much a concern of the European Union.
Since the Gulf War in 1991, Europe has been the major donor of humanitarian aid to Iraq with over EUR 250 million.
For the last two years, the European Union has provided assistance of between EUR 8 and 10 million on an annual basis.
The Commission welcomes the resumption on February 26 and 27 in New York of the dialogue between the United Nations and Iraq.
Signals should be sent to the Iraqi Government of the importance of continuing the talks and of reaching an agreement with the United Nations that allows the improvement of the economic and humanitarian situation in Iraq, while at the same time respecting the various UN resolutions on Iraq, particularly on the question of weapons of mass destruction.
I believe it has been wisely said that no-one has caused more suffering to the Iraqi people and Iraqi society than the country' s present regime, and I believe it would be correct to recognise too that no-one has derived as much personal profit from this suffering as the Iraqi regime itself.
From this perspective, I should like to address a number of questions to the Commission and the Council.
I believe that - as Mr Patten has just explained - the Commission and the European Union as a whole can have a very clear conscience in the sense that we are the major donor of humanitarian aid to Iraq, but I believe that we should carry out a serious analysis and ponder the results of the 'oil for food' programme, given that many Arab countries believe that the Iraqi authorities are committing fraud to the tune of more than USD 1 000 million per year.
I share the view expressed by the Presidency that the easiest solution of all would be for Saddam Hussein' s regime to apply United Nations Resolution No 1284 which, subject to cooperation with the United Nations, would in fact enable the trade embargo to be suspended for a period of 120 days, subsequently extendable for further periods.
I also drew this conclusion from a recent hearing on Iraq before our Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Security and Defence Policy.
He concluded that, to put it briefly, the sanctions are catastrophic from a humanitarian point of view.
I can only hope that this respected Caritas representative will not be let down by the Members of the Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats in the European Parliament and that the Council of the European Union will, at its level, draw the necessary conclusions from this speech.
Mr President, I visited Kuwait recently where I met a man whose childhood friend has been killed during the assault by Iraq upon Kuwait.
When we talk about the Iraqi people let us not forget the 750 or so Kuwaiti prisoners of war still inside Iraqi prisons.
The no-fly zones have been effective in protecting the lives of at least some of those people but we should do more; we must do more.
When we talk of a policy on Iraq, Commissioner Patten spoke about the recklessness of the Iraq regime.
This man is indeed a modern Hitler. (Applause from the centre and the right) Mr President, according to my group, the bombings which we are debating here are the wrong response to a real problem.
I am pleased that Commissioner Patten has already mentioned that he is in favour of changing the current regime.
The embargo on weapons and strategic goods must remain in place and might even have to be tightened, whilst the current regime must be replaced by what are known as smart sanctions.
The international community must have access to Iraq and be able to control arms development in that country.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I was one of the Members who had requested that a debate on the bombings of Baghdad by the United States and Britain be included on the agenda of this sitting.
These air raids on Baghdad are, in essence, totally illegal, deeply counter-productive and ethically unacceptable, as were the previous raids that have taken place since Operation Desert Fox in 1998, which is recalled with some horror.
I believe that these sanctions can be effective, as General Powell himself acknowledged.
If we wish this discussion to be in any way constructive, I believe that all these issues must be laid out before us.
After ten years, we have some experience of the sanctions imposed in 1991.
I believe that we must consider a new form of sanctions, but it will be difficult to remove the military element from them, and we will certainly even have to step up the military pressure, as we will certainly have to consider increasing the size of the no-fly zone over Kurdistan.
I believe it is extremely important that we should have a common view of the purpose behind the international community' s action against Iraq.
I believe it is important that the European Union should actively participate in that discussion.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that the bombing of military targets in Iraq has once again shown the continued extent to which the European Union and in particular, the Council of Ministers have no voice in the matter of foreign and security policy.
We all agree that Saddam Hussein is a mass-murderer who is carrying out a renewed rearmament programme in nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, that it is in the interests of the safety of the European Union and the world to prevent this, that this also lies within the framework of the UN resolutions and that, at the same time, the protection of minorities in southern or northern Iraq also falls within the remit of these resolutions.
However, a great debate is raging in the region which may ultimately culminate in the elevation of Saddam Hussein, a prolific violator of human rights in this region, to hero status in the Arab world.
For this reason, that is for humanitarian reasons, we should attempt to adjust our actions, but at the same time to use these as an instrument to conduct the PR battle currently underway in this area and designed to promote our interests in enforcing international law, democracy and human rights in this region.
I believe that we must put this policy into action in such a way so as to enable Iraqi people to move away from the threat of Saddam Hussein' s regime and into the free world and also in such a way as to prevent Saddam Hussein from becoming a hero of the Arab world.
Yet, everyone in Europe is united in condemning Saddam Hussein' s regime.
Mr President, actions such as we are debating today must be underpinned by democratic legitimacy.
Two or three weeks ago there was a Conference in Stockholm of the chairmen of the defence committees of the fifteen national parliaments and the European Parliament to debate exactly this question - how to exercise democratic control over European policies and foreign affairs and defence.
Mr President, after listening to this debate this morning, it seems to me that there is one thing that can be said that we all more or less agree on in this House, and it is this: the system of sanctions in its current form is not working; it is leaking like a sieve - the Americans themselves have said it is as full of holes as a Swiss cheese - and so it needs changing because it has not achieved the objectives for which it was set up.
Frankly, I believe that, with the increasing bombing of Iraq, comes the further radicalisation of what is already radicalised public opinion in both the Arab states and Palestine.
This may lead to Arab public opinion' s being characterised by a growing sense that Arabs are enduring a war on two fronts: on the one hand, the United States against Iraq and, on the other hand, Israel against Palestine.
Mr President, can I first of all say that I am rather surprised that this debate is entitled air attacks against Iraq.
Saddam is not just a threat to his own people but to a wider area, including our friends and allies in the Middle East, and potentially our own citizens.
There is then a real and current threat over which some degree of international control is exercised, really by two means: the economic sanctions and the maintenance by Britain and America on behalf of the international community of the no-fly zone covering about a third of the territory of Iraq.
The sanctions are controversial in that Saddam has been able to persuade some significant elements of international opinion that it is sanctions that are the cause of the distress of the Iraqi people rather than his own actions.
The main purpose of the no-fly zone is twofold: to prevent Saddam using his helicopter gunships and other aircraft against the Kurds in the north and the Shia marsh Arabs in the south, and to carry out reconnaissance, bearing in mind that there are no UN inspection teams operating in Iraq at the moment.
If EU Member States really have aspirations to play a greater role in security policy, then let them contribute to enforcement of the no-fly zone, and ensure that whatever sanctions regime is imposed is rigorously enforced.
So the no-fly zones are vital in avoiding humanitarian disaster.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to its own process of consolidation, the European Union has an ever more important role and ever greater influence on the global stage.
This process began in 1995 and was made concrete in the Declaration from the First Summit between the Heads of State and Government of Latin America and the Caribbean and the European Union, held in Río de Janeiro from 25 to 29 June 1999.
The commitment signified by these agreements with Mercosur and Chile is therefore unique.
It is also necessary to increase and improve the specific participation of civil society, as well as to examine the conditionality whereby it is assumed that this Agreement has to be subordinate to the World Trade Organisation despite the fact that both the European Union and Mercosur have enough of a solid reputation to reach practical agreements.
This condition has not been imposed on any other country or bloc of countries and we in Parliament therefore feel, Commissioner, that this obstacle must be overcome.
I should like to hear the Commission' s opinion on this matter, specifically on the connection between the conclusion of these agreements and the completion of the new round of negotiations at the World Trade Organisation.
The European Parliament feels, and has expressed this view on numerous occasions, that the commitments given at the Madrid Summit and these agreements are an urgent imperative and a mark of the European Union' s renewed belief in Latin America.
Mr President, in Parliament, one of the two branches of budgetary authority, we too are fully aware of the difficulties involved in this exercise, but although in recent budgetary debates we have been able to show that the European Parliament remains supportive of Latin America, it is my view, and I repeat, that significant progress must be made on these agreements.
The association agreements with Chile and also of course with Mercosur are valued highly by the European Union.
I would also like to say, as regards our policy on Latin America in general, that I urge the Commission, the Council and also us here in Parliament, to give Latin America a higher profile in our external relations and in our debates.
In this respect, I would ask the Commission, together with Parliament, to look for a solution to enable a sensible replacement regulation to be found and to enable us to have at our disposal an instrument that can give these historic and important relations with Latin America the profile they deserve.
Mr President, I should first like to point out a minor error in the text on the opinion of the Industry Committee, for which I was rapporteur.
The subsequent phrase appeared in the draft statement but was deleted in the rush to prepare the final version, which I had to complete in just 24 hours.
Moving on to the text before us, I would like to refer to the commercial aspects of the association agreement between the European Union and Mercosur.
In conclusion, I should like to express my support for this interregional association agreement, which could be a milestone in the history of world trade.
He is well aware of the importance of the nature of the parliamentary cooperation to be set up between Chile, Mercosur and the European Parliament for the institutional development of the agreements.
The extent of the economic relations between the European Union and these countries, the need to strengthen the political role of the European Union as an autonomous and influential actor on the world stage to counter the preponderant influence of the United States, the concrete support given by the Union to all initiatives aiming at strengthening democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights in South America means that we cannot go back on this move towards a new phase with regard to the transitional framework agreement that came into force in 1995 for Mercosur and 1999 for Chile.
I wish to point out that the agreement with Mercosur may constitute the first agreement in the world between two customs unions.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on these interesting and important reports and to pledge our support, particularly as regards the demand that the European Parliament become more directly involved in the negotiations.
These agreements pave the way for ever closer political cooperation between Europe and Latin America.
Mr President, I think we are on the way to fleshing out a key chapter of what the European Union' s common foreign and cooperation policy ought to be.
Mr President, Commissioner, Representative of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the situation that is being negotiated with Mercosur and Chile lends itself to some dangerous suggestions that we should avoid, but it also offers some opportunities that this Union take and some responsibilities that it can assume.
We believe it is a fundamental agreement not only for attributing competence, autonomy and responsibility to the European Union' s foreign policy, but especially for managing, at last, to make up our great disadvantage in initiative towards Latin America compared with the United States, for asserting our capacity for political initiative and our competence in our foreign policy towards Latin America.
We are clearly entering a crucial moment in the negotiations for association agreements with Chile and Mercosur.
As Parliament knows, no sector is excluded from the negotiations.
It is no secret that while Chile fully shares this comprehensive approach, Mercosur has a rather more limited objective, aiming primarily for greater market access in agriculture.
The two reports that we are discussing are both comprehensive and extremely useful.
They make a number of sound recommendations - most of these are based on the possibility of modifying the current negotiating mandate provided by the Council.
We need to wait for the final result, as we have done in other similar negotiations, before we look at our own legal base.
These issues have already been discussed during the third round in Brasilia and Santiago and we have reached consensus with Mercosur and Chile on them.
I am personally committed to ensuring that these essential elements underpin our future association agreements with Mercosur and Chile.
So we support an approach in the association agreement which assures labour rights through cooperation and promotion of the relevant ILO Conventions.
This was already established during the third round in Brasilia and Santiago.
Civil society was mentioned in the reports and by a number of speakers.
The House will know as well as I do that this approach was the result of a compromise solution between Ministers during the General Affairs Council of June 1999 in Luxembourg.
The debate is closed.
At the last plenary session I tabled a question to the Council, in time and in full accordance with the Rules, yet the Presidency refused to answer the question because they had not received all language translations.
I think the problem with the Ecuadorial Indian is that security forces were suddenly faced with this man with a spear and had not be given any warning in advance.
Haug report (A5-0064/2001) Mr President, I requested the floor in order to speak about the amendment to the budget appropriations solely to express my disagreement with the idea that the much-needed supplementary budget for addressing the problems of BSE must be achieved without adjusting the limits set by Agenda 2000.
We differ only in our view of what can be achieved by voting against this practical report.
The Fianna Fail MEPs reluctantly voted in favour of this proposal.
Furthermore, according to the Treaties, any revision of the CAP will not take place before 2003 - 2004.
Paasilinna report (A5-0053/2001) Mr President, I also voted for the Paasilinna report on a common regulatory framework for communications networks and services.
Hic manebimus optime, I am very happy here in the European Parliament and I got here thanks to television.
I would reiterate that the proposed directive, due to come into force on 1 January 2003, seeks to take account of the development of the former Telecom Package 1998, on the one hand, and of technological evolution in this market, on the other.
These regulations must provide consistency throughout the Community.
The difficulty in this constantly changing sector is to find a fair balance between specific rules and Community legislation in the area of competition.
The NRAs will therefore have a large part to play in achieving this.
In our debates, the concept of a 'Significant Market Player' emerged as the focus for discussion.
The Commission' s position, which this report generally supports, is in line with the framework of liberalising the sector, like others in the field of electronic communications although, in some cases, it establishes regulations designed to safeguard the rights of users and of creators themselves and even fundamental freedoms such as the pluralism of information and cultural and linguistic diversity, which, it is acknowledged, may be endangered by this whole process.
It should be pointed out that this process is in line with the objectives of the Lisbon Summit, specifically in speeding up liberalisation in these sectors and with the Spring Summit, which is intended to assess this situation that is broadly characterised by the dismantling of the public sector and by the erosion of services of general interest.
Niebler report (A5-0062/2001) Mr President, this is the third report we have voted on concerning the opening-up and regulation of European television.
I therefore voted against Amendment 21.
Varela Suanzes-Carpegna reports (A5-0047 and 0046/2001) Mr President, I am glad to have the opportunity to speak on both the report on control measures and the one on management measures applicable to fish stocks in our fishing industry.
So, in practice, this document that regulates access for our fishing boats to Equatorial Guinea recognises that there is no control on how this kind of fishing should be carried out.
Instead, the EU should help Equatorial Guinea to be in position to exploit its fishing resources itself.
Avilés Perea report (A5-0058/2001) Mr President, I too voted against this report and I am pleased that Parliament has voted against it - I would have been very upset if the opposite had happened - because, under the pretext of protective women immigrants, in fact, the report was trying to put through a principle favouring uncontrolled immigration, unregulated immigration.
Mr President, I too voted against the Avilés Perea report for reasons that can also in part be linked to those just expressed by Mr Speroni.
The Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs will be investigating these issues in the near future on the basis of a Commission communication on immigration in the European Union.
Gemelli report (A5-0059/2001) Mr President, how could anyone vote against a Commission communication that invites us to develop aid and cooperation with developing countries?
Yet, the European Union which, however, continually declares its solidarity with the poorest countries in the world and spends billions on helping them, has a severe lack of long-term vision for these countries.
It is these ideas which provided inspiration for the Committee on Development and Cooperation, and that is why I voted in favour of the report by Mr Gemelli.
I have therefore voted for the motion, in the hope, however, that, in this cooperation agreement, some attention may be given to trade in the merchandise known as "pensions" .
This new treaty of association has been delayed due to endless partial negotiations held up in turn by our insistence on prior agreement within the WTO framework.
On the other hand, there are those who wish the new agreement to be merely an instrument allowing free exchange between both groups of states.
Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra report (A5-0050/2001) Mr President, this is a cooperation agreement between the European Union and Chile.
So why should we not do here what they have done in Chile?
