Consequences of the recent gas crisis - Second Strategic Energy Review - Challenge of energy efficiency through information and communication technologies (debate) - The next item is the joint debate on: the Commission statement on the consequences of the recent gas crisis; the report by Mrs Laperrouze, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the Second Strategic Energy Review; the oral question to the Commission (B6-0003/2009) by Mr Remek, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the challenge of energy efficiency through information and communication technologies.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to start by congratulating the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and the rapporteur Mrs Laperrouze.
They worked very hard to prepare this report on security of supply as early as this February plenary in 2009.
It is true that in this difficult situation EU countries worked with one voice through the Presidency and support from the Commission.
We have seen much evidence of solidarity when member countries helped other member countries.
We have also seen other cases where there was not sufficient transparency, and we definitely need a stronger coordination mechanism to address the crisis.
I believe that one important point where the Commission will make a lot of further effort is on the call in this report for the consolidation of activities in different areas, because we have really developed a lot of activities on the energy and climate change package implementation, on the technology, on external relations, on the internal market.
I shall end with one particular proposal that the Commission elaborated, very much related to this issue, but also to the general economic crisis that we face.
Then there are two issues that are sometimes seen as a luxury, but in my opinion they are extremely important issues: offshore wind - it is crucial that we have public support for the projects that are ongoing - and carbon capture and storage.
The volume of funds is not huge, but I believe they are going in the right direction and the public should be involved to strengthen security of supply in the European Union.
rapporteur. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our debates on this Second Strategic Energy Review have of course been marked by this new gas-supply crisis between Russia and Ukraine.
However, I must say - and our Commissioner has just pointed this out - that we are now seeing progress and more cooperation and solidarity among Member States, and thus hopes of a solution with which to manage these crises.
This is a joint action at several levels - global, European, national and local - which means that the main priorities that we have indicated are of course energy saving, energy efficiency and the development of renewable energies, since the European Union's potential in this area is great.
In particular, the objective of 20% energy efficiency will have to be made binding.
Secondly, the European Union's security of supply will have to be improved through investment in the networks and, in particular, in the interconnections.
Thirdly, having an internal market is a crucial factor in terms of the security of supply.
How, though, can a Member State be supplied via another Member State if the interconnections are weak or non-existent?
Our committee is proposing a reduction of 60-80%, but perhaps in future of at least 80%, in CO2 emissions, a 35% increase in energy efficiency and a 60% share of renewable energies, to be achieved by 2050.
Our Parliament is calling for this road map to envisage developing the share of the different energy sources so that investments can be planned in means of production, interconnections, and research and development.
In the energy mix for 2050 the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy has confirmed the share of nuclear energy alongside the other energy sources, such as renewable energies, as well as the desire to develop means of energy storage and to use solar energy, which is an infinite resource.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you already have the text of the question put to the Commission on the solution of energy efficiency problems through the use of information and communication technologies (ICT), so please allow me to add a couple of remarks.
A compromise solution was eventually found for almost 90 proposed amendments and the document was unanimously adopted by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
Both the financial crisis and the interruption in the supply of gas to some EU Member States, as already mentioned, have established the need to take all available steps in order to meet the energy challenges as quickly as possible.
It is more than obvious that, without the sensible and, I should like to emphasise, considered and most wide-ranging application of these technologies, we shall succeed neither in reducing energy consumption nor in limiting the adverse effects of climate change.
In short, it is hard to find a sector in which energy efficiency cannot be improved with the aid of ICT developments.
I was the shadow rapporteur for the document on the second strategic review of this policy and I should like to thank Mrs Laperrouze for her excellent work in eventually achieving a compromise solution for her report.
Opponents of nuclear energy are again attempting to exclude this emission-free source, which is vitally important for Europe, from the overall energy mix.
Finally, it is important, in my view, to attempt a better integration of energy grids, for example with the Baltic States.
This strategy will be accompanied by a recommendation in which we set the tasks, the targets and the timeline for actions in the ICT sector, actions by stakeholders and by Member States.
That is also why we established cross-sectoral research projects and worked very closely together with the industry to reduce the time between research and development and innovation.
Reducing the footprint of ICT products also forms part of this research.
As regards funding, we have so far invested more than EUR 4 000 million in this initiative.
Firstly, there should be a common European foreign policy on energy, with the emphasis on security of energy sources and energy routes.
At a time when battles are centred on energy sources, we all understand the importance of this proposal.
Secondly, we must deepen our relations with other countries, primarily with countries which produce energy, but also with countries via which energy routes run, in other words transit countries.
Thirdly, we need a new generation of binding energy interdependence clauses.
These clauses are extremely important, especially in the negotiations which we conduct with other countries and in particular, for example, as this is a topical issue, in the negotiations which we are conducting with Russia on a new agreement to replace the 1997 agreement.
We referred to the fight over energy sources, an important issue which led us to differentiate between energy sources and the routes via which energy reaches us.
There are many important projects at the moment.
I have here a map of the Caspian Sea and I believe that, when we look at the Caspian Sea, we must look at all sides, including the Azerbaijani side and the Turkmenistan side; we shall be debating this issue in the European Parliament tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but I would remind you of the importance of Turkmenistan and, lastly of course, Iran.
However, mankind ceased some time ago to be satisfied with merely basic living conditions; we have also been striving to attain the kind of social development which makes our lives easier.
Our political group promotes all three of these objectives as the cornerstone of the common European energy policy and, in that respect, we welcome the Laperrouze report.
Climate change and the problems we experienced in January with the transmission of Russian gas to Europe testify to the importance of diversity when it comes to the common energy policy.
The implementation of the Nabucco project is exceptionally important in this regard.
In addition, we need to enrich our energy mix.
Essentially, it needs to include a higher proportion of energy sources that do not result in greenhouse gas emissions, hence both renewable energy sources and nuclear energy.
However, numerous studies have shown that we need to invest our financial, intellectual and creative powers in generation and transmission capacities.
In order to minimise the problems involved in energy importation, we need to formulate an effective foreign energy policy.
However, our expectations of a common foreign energy policy will be more realistic if we take concrete action in the fields that we have already defined as part of the common energy policy.
In conclusion, let me present my opinion on the amendments tabled.
Security of supply and solidarity among the Member States must be at the heart of the European energy policy.
Moreover, before the end of this year the Commission must also present a proposal for the revision of the Gas Directive of 2004 in order to incorporate a requirement for binding and effective national and EU emergency plans.
However, as members of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, we attach fundamental importance to the duty of EU Member States to keep a special eye, even in normal times, on the most vulnerable consumers in society, namely those who are victims of fuel poverty.
That is why my group has tabled an additional amendment calling on Member States to make real efforts to address this problem.
The report emphasises the particular importance of energy saving and energy efficiency.
I am pleased to see that we are moving in this direction, for example by calling for the target of a 60% share of renewables in our energy mix by 2050.
The bottom line, however, is that our objectives will be difficult to achieve without investments in the infrastructure of energy networks and further liberalisation of the internal market.
The coming weeks will be crucial in this respect.
What we need are the creation and development of a smart electricity network comprising ICT-based combined power stations and decentralised energy production.
That is the only way in which energy resources can be efficiently channelled into the areas where they are really needed.
For this reason my group has tabled an amendment that clearly underlines our common interest in nuclear safety while emphasising that whether Member States invest in nuclear energy must remain their own sovereign decision.
The issues raised are highly complex, but we can boil them down to this: Europe needs an energy policy that gives us sustainable, affordable and secure resources of energy.
That is why this week a small group of us, including Mr Hammerstein, who will speak later, will launch a cross-party pamphlet, Making the Green Energy Switch at a Time of Crisis.
I am grateful to all Members who contributed their ideas, and I am startled by the degree of consensus that exists.
The French Presidency cited it as a possible operation project for our new European Union for the Mediterranean.
The German Aerospace Centre estimates it would cost EUR 45 billion to build, but it also says that it would save consumers many times that amount in reduced energy bills over the next 35 years, and the investment would create thousands of jobs.
Access to other countries will occur in the second phase, therefore making the market more complicated in political, regulatory and infrastructure terms.
The Commission's proposal for a Caspian Development Cooperation can overcome these problems, if it will be tasked with, among other things, facilitating the development of missing infrastructure.
The penultimate aspect is that solidarity mechanisms are undoubtedly fundamental for the Union's energy policies, as well as in relation to the Treaty of Lisbon.
I do wonder, Commissioner Piebalgs, what has happened to the proposals you presented to us at the start of this legislative term, when you told us that the great risks associated with nuclear energy had to be brought under control, that the problem of nuclear waste, the funding of decommissioning and all these issues had to be resolved before the Commission made any positive moves towards the development of nuclear energy.
Not one of these issues has been resolved, and yet the Commission is now launching this pro-nuclear offensive.
The fact that one of the greatest debacles in the history of the Western European nuclear industry is taking place right now in Finland, that the amount in dispute between the Finnish electricity company and Areva has now reached EUR 2.4 billion, because so many extra costs have arisen at the Olkiluoto site, does not seem to worry you in the least.
In my view, this mix of coal and nuclear power is precisely the strategy that has driven the energy policy of the European Union up a blind alley.
We expect a realistic proposal for the development of the 'supergrid', in other words a network that must be able to incorporate really large capacities for the generation of energy from renewable sources by the North Sea, in other coastal areas or in southern desert regions.
I must announce on behalf of my group that we shall be supporting neither the Laperrouze report nor the Strategic Energy Review and that we shall also endeavour in the context of the Recovery Plan to argue the case for sustainability and common sense.
In practice it will not be done with reference to the lowest prices, but some average prices.
Furthermore, our group would like to remind everyone, as Mrs Harms has, of the problems that are known to be associated with the use of nuclear power.
The Laperrouze report has addressed the important issues relating to energy supplies that are currently facing the European Union.
I am in favour of pursuing greater diversity in the energy sources and partner countries from which the EU imports energy, in other words diversifying the energy supply.
The gas conflict between Russia and Ukraine has underlined the urgency of this issue once again and I sincerely hope that the Nabucco project - to give one example - will come to fruition in the near future.
The creation of new connections between the energy networks of the Member States will also allow the internal market to operate more effectively.
Meanwhile, several Member States have been looking at restarting nuclear power stations closed under agreements with the European Union.
However, the Member States have differing opinions on the question of whether nuclear energy has a role to play in reducing CO2 emissions.
It is to be hoped that this will be rectified through the amendment process. (BG) Ladies and gentlemen, so far I have noticed how very putatively and abstractly what is best for Europe is decided in this Chamber, but it was the Bulgarian voters who sent me here and therefore I am more interested in what is best for my motherland Bulgaria.
During the 'talks', which we call 'EU dictates', we were required to close down reactors 1, 2, 3 and 4 at the Kozloduy nuclear power station.
I want to remind you - and if you do not know, then you can keep this in mind - that these units had fully passed all checks and were declared to be totally safe.
Under Article 36 of our Accession Treaty we have the right to start reactivating this nuclear power station.
That is our right, and because of that my colleagues in the Bulgarian Parliament introduced a bill for the reactivation of units 1 to 4 of the Kozloduy nuclear power station, which are currently closed.
With my colleagues in the European Parliament, Dimitar Stoyanov and Slavi Binev, I have submitted written declaration 0005/2009 asking for these reactors to be reactivated, with the aim of gaining Bulgaria's energy independence.
In conclusion, I want to say to you that Europe will be strong when every separate Member State is strong and has its own energy independence.
This means that we need to do more about cross-border connections and have a better grid, binding Member States together and thereby binding the market together.
Sometimes I feel it is the elephant in the room, because it is one of the greatest potential contributors to the European Union's ability to reduce carbon dioxide emissions today and in the future.
If we try to bring all these elements together, we will have the opportunity not only for a stronger energy policy, but also for a stronger security policy. (RO) Energy policy is and will continue to be a priority for the EU.
The gas crisis this winter, when extremely low temperatures were recorded, has highlighted again the dependency of the European Union and its Member States on its traditional gas suppliers.
The development of the Nabucco project and construction of an LPG terminal in Constanţa, a major Black Sea port, along with the interconnection of national electrical energy infrastructures are all measures which can help increase the security of the energy supply and enhance the EU's ability to offer solidarity to Member States affected by an energy crisis.
I call on the Commission and Member States to invest in modernising the European energy network, boosting energy efficiency and generating power from renewable sources.
The current crisis situation is making Member States focus greater attention on setting their priorities and strategic guidelines for development.
With regard to energy efficiency, the EU can achieve rapid results at an affordable cost in the battle against climate change.
Boosting existing buildings' energy performance and promoting passive buildings, as well as using information and communication technologies to reduce energy consumption and increasing energy efficiency through the large-scale implementation of intelligent meters and automated systems are strategic guidelines for development in which Europe must invest.
The current economic crisis is making Member States focus greater attention on setting their priorities and strategic guidelines for development.
By 2020, the EU must increase its energy efficiency by 35% and reduce its consumption of primary energy by 20%.
I call on the Commission and Member States to promote and finance research projects aimed at improving energy efficiency.
Commissioner, I urge the European Commission, the European Investment Bank and Member States to set up a European fund for energy efficiency and renewable energies to ensure that the necessary public and private capital is raised to implement the energy efficiency projects currently being worked on across the European Union.
I think that we now need to adopt at European level some highly ambitious medium- and even long-term objectives by 2020 concerning the energy efficiency of vehicles.
We also have close neighbours and conflicts concerning energy issues that are extremely worrying.
The regulations tabled by the Commission, including the financing package, are very good, but our citizens are still waiting for the governments to dare to take a decision on energy solidarity and on breaking up the large state monopolies.
These monopolies are not only concerned with the production of energy, but also the distribution of energy, and citizens and undertakings, both small businesses and large industries, are therefore locked into an unacceptable situation.
I also think that the Commission's proposal in these areas is very good and I hope that we can reach a decision on this matter as quickly as possible.
Thank you. (LT) The main lesson of the gas crisis is the great vulnerability of Europe's energy system and the very significant risk to supply delivery.
This risk remains as the agreement between Ukraine and Russia is a one-time agreement and the situation will undoubtedly be repeated.
Bilateral energy questions remain fundamentally unresolved, not just between Russia and Ukraine, but between Ukraine and the European Union and between the European Union and Russia, all the more so because there is no common EU-Ukraine-Russia energy operating system.
We have a very clear long-term energy strategy for the whole of the European Union.
In addition, faced with the conditions of a long-term and undefined economic crisis, this would allow resources to be used more efficiently and would greatly reduce the burden of the crisis on our residents and the business sector. (DE) Mr President, on the subject of the energy security strategy and Mrs Laperrouze's report, one thing that I believe the Commission's proposal and the Laperrouze report have in common is that they do not set any priorities.
When we say that 60% of the whole energy mix should come from renewable sources by 2050, this means at least 90% of our electricity being generated from renewables.
This figure of 90% electricity generation from renewable energy sources will surely be reached long before 2050, because we have already adopted a directive that sets a target of 35% for 2020.
If we can achieve 35% green electricity by 2020 from today's starting point of 15%, we shall be able to reach 60% or more as early as 2030.
In other words, we are devising an Economic Recovery Plan in which we give three and a half billion to the oligarchy of energy giants and not a single euro to the partners whose help we need to enlist for the change to green energy. (CS) Thank you, I shall be brief.
I should like to look at two aspects which I believe have not yet been discussed, namely the fact that we need an integrated energy system in Europe, which will interconnect the different types of energy and which will interconnect the different grids in such a way that it would be possible to make up for any outages.
The recent gas crisis has shown that this is an extremely important task.
I should like to say that the position of networks in the future structures of Europe is very important and that these networks are far more important for a cohesive Europe than the ever-growing bureaucracy both in Brussels and in the Member States.
I believe that the European Union will in the future become a kind of necklace threaded on these networks. (SK) The current financial crisis is being projected into an economic crisis.
In order to maintain at least the current level of energy production, there will be a need by 2030 for worldwide investment of about USD 26 billion in reconstruction and the development of new oil and gas fields and also in the production and distribution of all types of energy.
This system must help to overcome consequences of local political disputes and also consequences of any natural disasters and to provide for a functioning energy supply in a Europe-wide context.
The Slovak Republic itself has had the opportunity in recent weeks to experience the complexity of such a situation when, as a result of the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, not a single cubic metre of gas reached Slovakia for several days.
The experience of Slovakia and also of other European countries has shown that vigorous support is needed for the European Union's priority of interconnecting and integrating the separate energy markets in Europe.
However, I must mention that the enforced and premature decommissioning of two reactors at the Jaslovské Bohunice nuclear power plant has been found to be an imprudent mistake in the current situation.
This decision undoubtedly weakened the energy self-sufficiency not only of Slovakia, but also of the European Union. (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the battle against climate change and the need for energy security and to strengthen the competitiveness of our economy are taking us down the road of the third industrial revolution, towards an era in which we wean ourselves off mineral fuels.
It is a real revolution which will bring about huge structural changes to the model of production and consumption and, ultimately, to our very way of life.
In order for that to happen, we shall need to make every possible effort to limit the energy intensity of the economy in all sectors.
Considerable incentives are needed in order for us to make use of these technologies, so that we increase the energy efficiency of the European Union by 20% by 2020, within the framework of the 20-20-20 target.
The motion which we are being called on to adopt in a couple of days' time and which relates to the strengthening of energy efficiency through ICT places particular emphasis on research and development of pioneering technologies, such as nano-technologies and photonic technology, which have high potential to improve energy efficiency, and on designing policies to strengthen the take-up of these technologies.
It is clear from what I have said that, although it is not legislative, this motion which we shall vote on in a couple of days' time is highly important, because it essentially makes ICT one of the main indicators of sustainable development in the European Union.
I therefore call on you to support it in the vote in a couple of days' time. (DE) Mr President, we are, I hope, all clear on what the priorities are here: energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable energy.
In my view - and I am sorry to have to say this, Commissioner - it seems to me that we will be no better, or at least not much better, prepared the next time this happens.
If, then, we want our gas to be just as insecure, but more expensive, we should make a bilateral agreement but, if we want to find a real solution, we need to make a trilateral agreement encompassing Russia as the supplier, Ukraine as the transit country and ourselves, and come to an agreement in this connection, particularly with regard to transit and infrastructure.
With regard to investments in infrastructure, if we look to the east, there are basically three pipelines up for discussion: Nord Stream, South Stream and Nabucco.
Nord Stream is a supply pipeline in the north; it solves the transit problem, but will not reduce our dependency on Russia.
On top of that, if one looks at the costs involved, South Stream is actually somewhat more expensive than Nabucco, at least according to a number of studies, which suggests that we need to invest massively in Nabucco.
When I consider - and I have mentioned this on a few previous occasions as well, Commissioner - how quickly the United States constructed the PTCP oil pipeline and how long we are taking over the Nabucco gas pipeline, I really do think it is scandalous how little Europe has achieved: it is a sign of our weakness.
We need to act quickly, not just with regard to Azerbaijan or Turkmenistan - which we will be discussing shortly - but also in relation to Iraq.
The fact that gas there is simply being released into the air as exhaust, with no consideration being given to how it could be transported to the Nabucco pipeline, really is a big mistake.
Unfortunately, I too cannot vote in favour of the Laperrouze report, for example because it is too one-sided in this respect.
We will need to apply a lot more energy and brainpower to solving the problem of waste and disposal. (PL) Mr President, the energy crisis has revealed a weakness in the European Union.
A glaring illustration of this mistake is the proposal of Angela Merkel who, after a third energy crisis, is proposing to us today still stronger ties with Russian energy resources by building the northern and southern gas pipelines.
The crisis shows that we should strike the northern gas pipeline off the list of European Commission priorities in order to avoid a Russian monopoly in Europe.
My first point: in our report, which calls on the Member States to speak with a single European voice on energy issues, we have explicitly stated what all Europeans have seen in the past weeks to be the reality, namely that damaging energy supply in the Member States afflicts the European Union as a whole.
This is the basis of European solidarity and a basis for developing emergency response measures.
By developing CCS, Europe can become a world leader in advanced technologies, which will contribute to our global competitiveness and strengthen our economies.
The same is true for coal gasification technology, which is very important as an additional source of gas supply - it means diversification of gas supply.
My third point is that this strategic document specifically underlines the need for investment in the energy supply infrastructure.
Infrastructure projects that receive support at EU level should first and foremost contribute to the real diversification of sources and routes of supplies to the Member States and to the EU as a whole.
The reason for such a step on our part is very simple.
It is very important for us. (FI) Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, we have history behind us.
Now they have improved and have been patched up here and there, but this has caused us a problem that we will have to return to again later on.
As the need for energy has grown dramatically while the economy has developed at a huge rate, so the price, supply and environmental problems have also changed.
It is therefore important that we involve the United States and the developing countries in a common energy process.
We will show the way, but the United States has to follow Europe's example and must work alongside us.
We talk about energy efficiency in the context of climate change and of fuel poverty, but energy efficiency is also of huge strategic importance.
Controlling demand takes pressure off the supply side and is crucial to reaching energy independence in Europe.
I want to make two specific points in the context of the oral question on the use of information and communication technologies.
In some countries, digital displays are available to show consumers how much energy they are using - which is helpful - but a proper smart meter does much more than that.
There is a lot more to energy-efficient lighting than compact fluorescents, and it is time for the public sector - and that includes the European institutions - to take the lead on using ICT for energy efficiency. (LV) Madam President, Commissioners, I would firstly like to thank Mrs Laperrouze for her extremely comprehensive report.
Crises always provide the opportunity to take important decisions that may crucially change our values and policies.
Not only the recovery plan and the Second Strategic Energy Review prepared by the Commission but also this report all give us hope that there will be a unified European energy policy, and that includes the hope that the isolated energy islands of Europe will at last be eliminated, including that of the Baltic States.
These could indeed become an alternative to supplies of Russian gas in many locations, but only on condition that national governments are able to withstand the pressure, and not create them as extra capacity for the export of Russian gas, but solely as import terminals.
Thank you. (DE) Madam President, Mr Piebalgs, Mrs Reding, ladies and gentlemen, we need investment now.
We need to make an effort to invest as quickly and as well as possible, and therefore we cannot but say 'yes' to the construction not only of pipelines but also of LNG ships.
This is an important issue for the future.
Above all, we need to invest in energy efficiency, not via state funding, but rather by means of tax breaks.
The people of Europe have a right to safety in this field, so that we can go forward into a future in which energy generation does not put us in danger and we can sleep soundly.
The Commission's proposals are heading in this direction, but in the interests of greater efficacy these proposals should also include, and I was glad to hear the Commissioner mention it today, the potential in the south of our continent and in particular in my country, Spain.
For this reason, my country is an excellent supply platform for the European Union.
Medgas, Mr Piebalgs, must be a priority for the European Union, as must the specific problems of our island territories.
Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her work. (SV) Madam President, Commissioner, the EU has had to learn the hard way what it means to be far too dependent on a single energy supplier.
The citizens of several Member States have been affected by Russia's capriciousness in a totally unacceptable way.
I am pleased to see that the report maintains that nuclear energy needs to be an important part of Europe's future energy mix.
It is good that we are able to discuss this in the European Parliament over the next few days. (PL) Madam President, Commissioners, it is time to speak plainly.
Secondly, the EU has succumbed to collective manipulation in the form of intimidation with global climate warming due to CO2 emissions.
Secondly, I am also grateful that the proposed position is so nuanced.
Mr Turmes, it is wrong to believe that there is a simple answer, a single answer to this enormous, complicated problem.
It is part of the solution: not the whole solution, of course, but it should be realised that it has a contribution to make.
We also need a nuanced response to the issue of the various routes and paths.
Nobody today can predict with certainty what will happen in 10, 20 or 30 years' time.
The answer is technology.
I want to especially concentrate on the proposals included in the report which have been made with the aim of reflecting the problems faced by those countries which are most deeply affected by external energy source suppliers, in particular gas.
First of all, the importance of the European Parliament actively participating in allocating projects for new energy links, in particular between Member States' gas and energy supply networks, has been noted.
However, it is with regret that I point out that only EUR 20 million has been set aside for the Commission's project for the Republic of Bulgaria and its links with Greece, despite Bulgaria being one of the most seriously affected countries.
The gas field in Chiren, for example, which will solve the problems of the crisis with minimum supplies, has not been mentioned at all.
As rapporteur on the regulations and conditions for access to gas supply networks, I want to once again underline the significance of the Third Energy Package for the formation of a single European energy market and to urge its quickest possible implementation.
The excruciating and disastrous experience of our countries in the South in January, like the forecasts that threaten us with a significant energy shortage over the next two decades, all point towards the need for energy policy to be a key part of our foreign policy.
In this way the Union is probably going to lose the unique opportunity of diversity and greater security ... (The President cut off the speaker) (HU) Madam President, the Second Strategic Energy Review could not be more timely.
According to calculations, Europe uses 500 billion m³ of gas per year, and this demand may grow, according to certain analyses, by as much as 30% in the next 20 years.
The European green 'New Deal', should it receive the green light, will have a fundamental effect on Europe's future energy policy.
Thank you very much. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union at present imports 50% of the energy it consumes and this proportion is constantly growing.
The Union's dependence on imports of conventional sources of energy and on a limited number of suppliers represents a serious threat to our security, stability and prosperity.
This strategic review of the European Union's energy policy has therefore, in my opinion, come at the right time.
I am of the view that the 'three times 20' objective for 2020 is correct from the security, economic and ecological standpoints.
The creation of a common energy policy requires the completion of ratification of the Lisbon Treaty and the submission of a proposal for such a common energy policy.
In the internal market there is a need for a clear and stable legal framework and, above all, a need to complete the integration of our energy systems throughout the territory of the European Union.
There is also a need to strengthen the use of all domestic energy sources, from conservation by increasing the proportion of renewable sources to greater use of safe nuclear energy.
The dialogue should also include the candidate country Turkey and, in my view, it is also essential to look for a far more effective approach to countries like Iran.
In conclusion I should like to congratulate our rapporteur Mrs Laperrouze on, I believe, a first-rate and balanced report. (LT) Although we started talking about the need for a common energy policy as far back as 2006, each individual EU State is responsible for ensuring a secure energy supply.
However, solidarity among the Member States is essential for the survival of the EU itself.
Not only did the last gas conflict between Russia and Ukraine cause huge economic losses in many EU countries, but with a kind of permission from the EU it once again pushed Ukraine into a clear economic dependence on Russia.
Thirdly and finally, the European Union, by using its own financial means and also the European Investment Bank, should support first and foremost gas investments which really diversify the supply of gas to the EU, and so which create a real capability to import gas from countries other than Russia, such as the Nabucco gas pipeline.
Madam President, we will never achieve either energy security or the 80% reduction in our carbon dioxide emissions by 2050 if we continue to effectively ignore both the issue of energy security and the critical importance of pan-European high-voltage direct current (HVDC) interconnection.
That includes an HVDC line to North Africa: smart electrical networks over Europe and North Africa.
We can no longer allow our citizens to be hostage to either energy politics or volatile oil prices.
I want to draw attention to two issues.
We can now say that noticeable action is being taken by the Commission in this direction.
Madam President, I am touched by the words 'smart' and 'intelligent', which are very much part of this debate, because the solutions we try and use in our house to reduce energy consumption are certainly not working and they are neither smart nor very intelligent.
So we do need all of the things that others have spoken about: sensors and other technological advancements that will make everybody's life easier in terms of achieving our energy efficiency objectives.
We need to reduce that dependency, we need to develop our indigenous resources and, as I have already mentioned, improve our efficiency.
Ireland's dependency is extremely high: 91% of our needs are imported.
That is quite a staggering percentage, and while we have not experienced the gas problems that other colleagues have spoken about, or the cold and the horror that caused for other Member States, we did learn, from watching that, how critical it is that we do something about our energy mix and our energy insecurity.
So, all of the issues that are part of this report and the oral question are extremely important for us.
In particular the issue of land use needs to be addressed.
The link between energy and territorial cohesion is indisputable in that it affects possible long-term solutions for all the regions of the European Union, including the most isolated and outermost regions. (BG) Mrs Laperrouze, I would like to congratulate you in particular for the good work you have done with your topical and timely report.
The direct losses to the Bulgarian economy alone, which was most severely affected by the dispute between Ukraine and Russia, amount to over EUR 230 million, without any compensation.
Unfortunately, the big issue of energy dependence comes to a head whenever a political crisis and political antagonism between Russia and Ukraine occur.
As a member of the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection, I have worked a great deal on protecting energy supplies for consumers, but please understand, it is more important to secure the energy in the first place. (RO) I want to stress the European Union's need for an external energy policy so that the 27 Member States can speak with a single voice during negotiations with major producers.
Diversification of energy supply sources must be one of the European Union's major goals.
However, I wish to draw your attention to the fact that the Russian gas pipeline project, South Stream, is not making any contribution at all to this diversification as the supply source remains exactly the same, Russia.
In Ireland we have 12 days of gas supply at any one time.
On 28 January last, the Commission published a proposal to accelerate work on addressing deficits in the EU energy infrastructure while contributing to economic recovery as part of a EUR 5 billion package.
However, the recommendation to fully open the Nabucco project to Russia is questionable since everyone knows that Nabucco was conceived as an alternative to Russian gas and that, consequently, Russia is already doing everything possible to kill it. (SK) Ladies and gentlemen, the recent gas crisis has shown the importance of a common EU energy policy.
I appreciate that solidarity plays a leading role in relations between EU Member States.
In Europe we are not in a bad situation as far as location is concerned.
Secondly, in the revised Gas Directive, would you consider a mandatory 90 days of reserves for gas storage for all the Member States?
This crisis has highlighted once again that the European Union is dependent to a large extent on a single gas supply source.
In the same train of thought, I believe that the two projects, Nabucco and South Stream, must be taken into consideration, along with other solutions.
Transit routes through neighbouring countries must be encouraged by completing the projects which involve connecting the network in Romania with those in Hungary and Bulgaria.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, this has been a really fascinating debate and has reflected all the diversity of views on energy and the importance that this issue deserves.
Again I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for really going through the process of ensuring that all opinions are reflected in the report, while at the same time clearly supporting the Commission's second strategic energy review.
The recovery plan can lead to a vicious circle where we say: 'Well, we need this, we need that, but it should be done by industry'.
Yes, we do also encourage industry with different types of incentives, but if the public funds and European funds will not follow in accordance with our political priorities, then the plan will not be successful.
Well, I could point out that my country is not specifically covered by this recovery plan, so it is good that there were a lot of questions on this.
That should give enough legal and regulatory clarity for investing in the Nabucco pipeline.
As for gas storage, we are considering this, but 90 days should not be necessary for everyone, because it very much depends on imports.
If a country produces gas it does not need the same level of storage, so there should be a more fine-tuned proportion that gives enough security of supply and is realistic enough in case of crisis.
European research has brought about results and it is now both national and regional policy to put these results into practice.
Well, if I am reading this plan correctly, I see that EUR 1 billion is allocated to energy efficiency in buildings.
EUR 5 billion goes to clean cars, so that cars will no longer be dependent on petrol as they are today, and there is EUR 1 billion for smart manufacturing in order to use less time and less energy in our industries.
We are on the right path and I think that, with the help of Parliament and with a lot of pushing in the national Member States, we will manage not only to secure these means but also to apply them in practice.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Mrs Reding, Mr Piebalgs, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your exceptionally valuable contributions; they show how vast this energy field is and that energy really is a basic need.
In conclusion, improving energy efficiency, developing renewable energies, diversifying our sources and lines of supply, consolidating the dialogue with producer countries, but also ensuring that the 27 Member States speak with one voice and, above all, that we effect a change in our lives is the consensus that we have achieved.
It is quite clear that a large share has been allocated to all renewable energy sources.
In terms of nuclear energy, it is acknowledged in this report that it is part of the energy mix.
In this regard, I should like to conclude by simply reminding you of the objectives: a CO2 concentration of 450 ppm, which has been set in order to guarantee this limit of a 2°C rise.
I should like to remind you that, in these efforts that have been announced, we are talking about a 9% share of nuclear energy, 54% energy efficiency, 35% renewables and 14% geological carbon capture and storage.
The vote on Mrs Laperrouze's report will take place tomorrow.
The vote will take place on Wednesday.
Written statements (Rule 142) Solidarity between the European Union's Member States in the energy sector must become a primary objective at European, regional and bilateral level.
Indeed, the strategies adopted by each Member State at national level must not affect the energy interests of other Member States and must be in the European Union's general interest in terms of energy security.
It is essential to encourage the efforts aimed at increasing EU investments with regard to diversification of cross-border structures, incentives for generating alternative, non-conventional forms of energy at local level and improvements in the infrastructure's ability to facilitate connection to new energy sources.
The European Union must also seriously factor in the need to stimulate the private energy sector in Member States, which is already feeling the consequences of the global economic crisis.
It is therefore all the more surprising, in the face of another gas conflict whose victims were citizens of European Union countries, that Chancellor Angela Merkel is still pushing the proposal of building the Nord Stream gas pipeline with Community funds.
Investment should be made in building new transmission networks which would bypass unreliable exporters of energy resources such as the Russian Federation.
The gas crisis which the EU was confronted with in January is not the first in the history of the EU.
The EU must take additional steps so that the crisis is not repeated.
Europe, for its part, must diversify energy sources and improve supply security.
Europe must act decisively, as the solution of this energy crisis over the supply of gas from Russia is only temporary.
I would like to thank Mrs Laperrouze for this report and say that I support the majority of its conclusions.
In addition, the criteria established in Barcelona for interconnection must be met by all Member States.
It is also necessary to improve energy efficiency, especially in the new Member States.
I support the report's conclusion, including the point about signing an agreement between the EU, Russia and Ukraine.
This is why I am suggesting that in the future we need to pay more attention to the position given to this project in the various EP documents.
We can see in this report key elements of the energy policy which we want to implement across the European Union, such as national emergency action plans, the energy security clause, the diversification of supply sources and keeping nuclear power in the energy mix.
Furthermore, diversification of energy supply sources by establishing interconnections between Member States, implementing new supply routes like Nabucco and constructing LNG terminals must become current projects financed by the Commission.
The disruptions in gas supply in recent weeks have made certain points of the proposal particularly timely.
In addition to imposing obligatory minimum stocks, it is important, in our view, to strengthen the mechanisms of solidarity with Community regulations, in harmony with the Lisbon Treaty.
It is commendable that the energy review carried out by the Commission names the infrastructures whose creation would be in the common interest of all Member States.
The unpleasant experience of the Russo-Ukrainian gas conflict in January 2009 was necessary for the question of energy security to become a matter of primary importance for the entire European Community.
All that is needed is the political will, supported by a cold analysis of the last crisis, in order to describe future scenarios and to deliver the European Union from problems similar to those which were caused by the gas supply blockade via Ukraine.
Both the Commission communication and the Laperrouze report draw attention to ways of coping with emergency situations, such as increasing reserves and creating a transmission network which will ensure technical availability.
To guarantee energy security in Europe, the Union needs to invest in the establishment of a common main grid and a common energy market, and better coordination.
A competitive Europe built on sustainable use must aim to increase the renewable energy share to 80% by the year 2050.
We must take measures to diversify our energy sources and supply routes.
We need to support investments in infrastructure and in new technologies with reduced energy consumption, so that we can successfully achieve the '20-20-20' objectives.
Now more than ever, Member States must demonstrate their solidarity and cooperate in order to ensure the security of their energy reserves.
At the same time, this new strategy needs to lay the foundations for economic growth in the EU.
