Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting The Minutes of yesterday' s sitting have been distributed.
I think it is worrying that Parliament should express an opinion without first having drawn up a report on such an important subject.
We are therefore against this shortening of deadlines, because it simply does not allow us to present a reasoned report on such an important subject.
Watson (ELDR), chairman of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
My committee met this morning and agreed to propose to the plenary that we agree to urgency for these texts as submitted without report.
Thank you, Mr Watson.
This is, however, incredible since we are going to vote on the European arrest warrant, which will enter into force in 2004, namely in two years' time, and today they are telling us that there will be a Laeken European Council.
No one will have seen the text before arriving in Brussels on Monday afternoon.
Madam President, much less vehemently but, I believe, just as justifiably, I would like to ask this Parliament to vote in favour of this urgent motion.
I believe that we are all responsible adults and Members of Parliament, we know the background to the texts, we understand their political importance and we can make an effort to accept the inconveniences of doing a little work over these days, so that on Monday, before the Laeken Summit, in a perfectly correct manner in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may give its opinion for the second time. (Applause) We heard the chairman of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms, one speaker in favour and one speaker against.
And in stating this fact, I must acknowledge the efficient way in which you have always conducted this rather complex type of voting, and I would like to say that, with you in charge, even voting for the budget can be a pleasant activity.
The coordinators of the different political groups also deserve a mention: in addition to their activity in the committee, they serve as the link between it and the political groups and therefore make it possible for all the Members to be involved in this procedure.
Firstly, at first reading, Parliament adopted Amendment No 885 regarding line B5-502 , Amendment No 886 regarding line B7-665 and Amendment No 177 regarding line B7-42.
These amendments should be considered as being incorporated in the voting list you have in front of you.
The first two amendments were published in a corrigenda to the minutes of 25 October 2001.
Unfortunately, these amendments were not recorded as having been adopted in the word processed version and consequently do not appear in documents 10 and 12.
As for Amendment No 177, it so happens that, by accident, it appears in document 11 (Amendments rejected by the Committee on Budgets) and not in document 12 (Amendments adopted by the Committee on Budgets).
Secondly, in Amendment No 328, regarding line A-1100, the final numbers should be EUR 989 119 000, both for authorisations and for payments, and with regard to line A-950N, EUR 3.5 million should appear for authorisations and for payments.
Once again, thank you all very much.
Thank you very much, Madam President. (Applause) Thank you, Mr Costa Neves.
Thank you, we shall take note of this. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you have concluded the second reading of the draft budget.
I have seen the agreement reached between our two institutions at our consultative meeting on 21 November assume concrete form in your vote today.
Therefore, I would like to propose that we replace the last phrase of paragraph 4 with the phrase 'extradition cannot take place where the defendant could be sentenced to capital punishment'.
Thank you, Mrs Muscardini.
As you know, the draft agenda has been adopted by this House.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE Costa Neves and Buitenweg report (A5-0400/2001) Madam President, the Costa Neves/Buitenweg report deals with the general budget of the European Union.
You can see, Madam President, that right now at least half of the members of the public who are watching Members leave the House when Mr Fatuzzo starts his explanations of vote are elderly and pensioners - but that is just a coincidence.
This is in spite of the fact that in many cases there is clearly no proof that these 22 border regions (from Finland to Greece via Bavaria) are in need of this new money, and that they already receive significant financial support and will be the first to benefit from enlargement.
In the two previous budgetary years, we rather forced the interpretation of that mechanism, since it was applied by us in order to meet the needs of Kosovo and Serbia, with regard to the fact that the Council refused to keep its word and agree to the revision of the Financial Perspectives which it promised in its Declaration of 6 May 1999.
It was a question of providing EUR 197 million of the EUR 281 million it will cost to convert the fleet which previously fished in Moroccan waters, a fleet and an industry which provides employment in the least-favoured regions of the current EU: Galicia, Andalusia and the Algarve.
Demagoguery is contagious and others followed his example and the conversion programme was taken hostage, despite the fact that there were already appropriations for cross-border cooperation, at least in B5-3003, B5-0510, B2-0141, B3-1010, B3-1021 or B3-0306.
The answer is simple: the final phase of introducing the single currency - which is to say the physical changeover of notes and coins as of 1 January 2002 - is based on two enormous deceptions.
The second deception is that public opinion has never been properly enlightened and has even been manipulated.
Today the harsh reality has dawned: 52% of French people think that the single currency offers more disadvantages than advantages while 33% think the opposite (Le Figaro, 11 December) and 62% would like to continue using the franc compared with 32% who are of the opposite opinion (Wall Street Journal, 11 December).
The deception is so huge that next year, when people's eyes are opened, we will not only have to rethink the euro, but also consider thoroughgoing reforms of the European institutions to prevent public opinion from being manipulated in this way again.
I am stunned that nearly 320 Members voted against Amendment No 6 which proposed something that seems perfectly obvious, in other words, that the support we are giving to the Palestinian Authority and its institutions must be coupled with a firm condemnation of the violence inflicted by the same Authority and the implementation of effective measures that will put an end to the terrorist attacks.
I really hope that my vote in favour will be useful so that we can take a real interest in living conditions on board ship, but for all seamen and not just some. - Madam President, I warmly welcome this report by my Socialist colleague Mark Watts, which will enable EU Member States to enforce international standards for ship safety, pollution, prevention and onboard living and working conditions.
This report has the potential positively to affect a broad number of issues: it could enhance the lives of people working on board ships and, moreover, it is in line with the EU's attempts to take a pioneering role in protecting the environment.
In order to avoid undermining the Erika 1 package and to retain the gain for Parliament brought by the Watts report (voyage data recorders on ships), at third reading, the Liberals accepted with reservations the proposal that Member States should be free in their negotiations with classification bureaux to agree higher, unlimited liability.
The bureau must now be completely independent, which stands to reason.
Pérez Royo report (A5-0417/2001) The report by my colleague, Fernando Pérez Royo, on financial collateral arrangements is an important step towards standardising the legal regime governing financial instruments in Europe.
Article 6 provides for the use by the collateral taker of the financial instruments' collateral held under the security financial collateral arrangement; these provisions give rise to difficulties related to ownership rights and traceability of securities and thus threaten the transparency of European financial markets.
Motion for a resolution (B5-0821/2001) The large groups in this House have just tabled and passed a resolution deploring the Commission's failure to submit its legislative programme for 2002, which they criticise for being insufficiently detailed, in good time, a surprising move coming from them.
Of course, we could not but endorse this initiative, but neither can we avoid asking ourselves what has prompted this almost universal attitude of spite towards Romano Prodi.
Instead, we, like the citizens, notice that Europe is getting more and more out of touch with people' s concerns and seems more and more distant.
Perhaps the introduction of the euro, once the initial difficulties of understanding its value in terms of the old currencies have been overcome, may help more people to see Europe as a common reality, although the feeling is likely to remain, especially among the older generations, that they have been tricked out of their old currency, which will have vanished without anyone having asked them for their views.
In current circumstances this court is needed more than ever.
I voted for this document, Madam President, but I am convinced that we will be able to avoid these conflicts - 99% of which just happen to involve poor, or rather very poor, countries in the world - if we can make these countries a little less poor.
I therefore think it is appropriate that the European Union should continue its actions of supporting the economies of Third World countries and poor countries, because I am convinced that only by improving the living standards of the citizens of our world who live in poverty - or rather in extreme poverty, not just in poverty, but in the most wretched poverty there could be - will we succeed in preventing conflicts of any kind.
I shall therefore ask that these talks should continue and that we should have an exchange of members of Parliament between Iran and the European Union, and most of all I propose that you, Madam President, should invite President Khatami to address this House here in Strasbourg.
In particular, I would draw Parliament's attention to the case of Ron Arad, an Israeli air force officer who, in 1986, was captured by a Shi'ite militia group in Lebanon.
Van den Burg report (A5-0388/2001) Madam President, the van den Burg report deals with the Commission report on the regulation of taxation of second-pillar pensions, that is, occupational pensions.
Instead of starting a process of consultation to identify which of the tax models currently in force in the Member States avoids double taxation of contributions and benefits with the greatest efficiency and the least bureaucracy, the report already comes down in favour of the EET regime, when it is obvious that the TEE tax system - which consists of taxing contributions to the plan and exempting pensions drawn from it - would guarantee uniform fiscal treatment, regardless of the country of residence of the member or retired person, that it would allow the country granting tax concessions for setting up occupational pension plans to safeguard its tax base, and that it would make the issue of sharing tax yields superfluous. (Intervention shortened pursuant to Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure) Rights of homosexuals in EU institutions The next item is the oral question (B5-0533/01), presented by 33 Members to the Commission, on the rights of homosexuals in EU Institutions.
In 1989, my own country, Denmark, was the first country in the world to introduce legislation on registered partnerships for homosexuals, corresponding to marriage, and a number of other countries followed suit.
On the legal basis of Article 13 of the Treaty, discrimination in the labour market on the grounds of sexual orientation has now been tackled in practical terms.
The House will know that the Kingdom of the Netherlands is at present the only European Union Member State where marriage between two people of the same gender is legally provided for.
Fourthly, that the couple must not have access to legal marriage in a Member State.
The system envisaged for the staff of the European Union institutions largely replicates the system currently employed in the OECD.
To obtain access to certain basic social rights under the Staff Regulations, non-married heterosexual partners must, as indicated, have documentary proof that their partnership is recognised in a Member State, they must not be married or in a non-marital partnership with another person and they must have no blood relationship with their partner.
In addition to these two categories of partnerships, where the partners have chosen to be officially registered, there are also a limited number of cohabiting partnerships that are not recognised by any Member State since the people involved have chosen not to seek the legal recognition open to them.
In its reform package of 30 October, the Commission approved the principles outlined above.
We also decided to intensify discussions with other EU institutions and with other international public sector organisations in order to develop these proposals further.
Finally, we reserved the right to make supplementary proposals after the outcome of the interinstitutional discussions which will commence formally in the early months of next year.
The issue of recognised partnerships will be discussed at the next meeting of the heads of administration of all EU institutions.
A working group will then further develop the Commission proposal, taking into account the additional information on the situation in other international organisations which is currently being collected.
As for the Council, there is nothing to suggest that Member States will raise problems with this approach, particularly since it gives full recognition to the competence of Member States to regulate of marital law.
I hope that this House will continue to support these reasonable social innovations and I look forward to further constructive discussions.
Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioner Kinnock for his characteristically full discourse and discussion on this subject, and also for the very comprehensive material he makes available to us on the staff reform issues.
It is very important that we see this in the broad framework of recognising stable partnerships as he described it in the November 2000 discussion paper.
I hope that these will have the full support of this House and that we will begin to end the 'ping pong' game that we play with the human rights and civil liberties of ordinary men and women.
They are ordinary men and women made extraordinary by society's preoccupation with their sex lives.
Finally, I should like to raise one very important issue, namely recognition by an EU Member State of a legal document.
Mr Kinnock, I really did try to keep up with what was going on here.
Mr President, I should like to thank Commissioner Kinnock for his very clear reply to the oral question.
The only light at the end of the tunnel as regards my own country, Ireland, is that our Law Reform Commission announced yesterday - and I suspect it is because they saw something coming down the line from the Commissioner - that they were going to make that part of their research programme for the next year.
Hopefully that will result in the justice that is clearly the right of stable couples, whether they be homosexual or heterosexual.
Things are starting to move, but everyone here is impatient for that movement to be much more positive and much more rapid.
Nor are we in the category of a Member State which has passed a law which is positive about the treatment of stable homosexual relationships.
Once a partnership is recognised under a Member State's recognition of partnership arrangements, we will give equal rights to everybody regardless of the benefit level applied under national legislation in the national context.
Flags of convenience in fisheries The next item is the report (A5-0405/2001) by Mrs McKenna, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the role of flags of convenience in the fisheries sector [2000/2302(INI)].
This report deals with a serious issue and that is fishing under flags of convenience.
In recent times, as fleets continue to increase and resource abundance plummets, flags of convenience are increasingly used as a means of avoiding measures taken by countries or regional fisheries organisations to manage fisheries and conserve stocks.
The environmental impact of pirate fishing vessels is virtually impossible to evaluate as by definition data on catches are non-existent or, at the very best, unreliable.
Markets are also global.
As the EU has both one of the largest fishing fleets and one of the largest markets for fish, it can play a particularly important role in regard to flags of convenience fishing.
At least 62 Japanese-built flags-of-convenience longliners will be scrapped by the end of 2002.
The campaign that must be waged against pirate fishing is a global and multifaceted one.
I therefore congratulate the Committee on Fisheries and our rapporteur.
We in the Committee on Fisheries are going to closely monitor the objectives and proposals in this report, aimed at dealing with the serious problem of illegal fishing.
The marketing of these fish and landings in European Union ports - as has been said here - are key issues in this process, as is the definition of flags of convenience and clearly identifying the countries which permit them and tolerate them.
All of these issues are in the report.
The Socialist Group is in total agreement with the conclusions of this report, above all with those which demonstrate the bad treatment received by the workers on these types of ships, in terms of working conditions, wages, safety and hygiene on board.
We believe that it is necessary to encourage the governments which have not yet done so to sign up to the United Nations agreement on fish stocks, which is directly aimed at combating this kind of fishing.
Unfortunately, this type of fishing does exist in the shape of fishing vessels sailing under flags of convenience.
Should these countries comply only by striking ships off their registers without tightening controls, we must consider economic sanctions against them.
The fishing agreements that the European Union enters into with third countries could also play a part.
On the contrary, all we have here is a destructive fisheries practice and flags of convenience.
The Commission has not been sitting on its hands.
Parts of No 17 are already included in the control regulation.
Mr President, the fisheries protocol with the Republic of Mauritania is of vital importance for EU fisheries.
This new protocol was initialled by both parties on 31 July 2001, fixing for five years the technical and financial conditions governing the fishing activities of Community vessels in the waters of Mauritania during the period 1 August 2001 to the end of July 2006.
The provisional application of this protocol will depend on the first payment being made before 31 December this year.
It is interesting to note that in 1995, following the unilateral termination by Morocco of the fisheries agreement concluded in May 1992 for a period of four years and in view of the likely problems of negotiating a new agreement with Morocco, the Commission initiated negotiations with third countries so that vessels prevented from fishing as a result of any loss of fishing opportunities off Morocco could, if necessary, be moved elsewhere.
This new protocol with Mauritania is now the Union's most important protocol with a third country.
There will be a 17% increase in the number of tuna vessels, from 57 to 67.
However, it is important to note that there has been a reduction in the number of pelagic vessels permitted from 22 to 15.
The total Community financial contribution will be EUR 430 million, broken down into EUR 86 million per year for the period of the application of the protocol.
The EUR 86 million for the year comprises EUR 82 million in financial compensation and EUR 4 million for the financial contributions to fund the various types of fisheries-related assistance set out in Article 5 of the protocol.
The first one relates to the economic and social importance of these agreements for the European Union.
Lastly, I would like to refer to the Gallagher report, since the agreement with Mauritania is the most important one concluded with third countries to date.
In the light of the non-renewal of the agreement with Morocco, this agreement with Mauritania, as the rapporteur stated, is now of special importance for Portugal and Spain, but also for Italy and France, which are countries that also fish in these waters.
As always, I would like to stress to the Members of this House - and not only those of the Committee on Fisheries - the importance of fisheries agreements with third countries, the importance of continuing to sign up to them and to sign up to new ones.
The Commission states that there was a more recent assessment by Spanish scientists.
Parliament, which is the budgetary authority, is being frustrated in its attempts to obtain the relevant scientific information on this major third country agreement.
I cannot understand how the Commission can go for a study by anonymous authors and ignore information provided by its own main committee.
Parliament has a right to know.
The bribe of EUR 86 million per annum is taken from many pensioners and many of the lower-paid.
Very little money filters down to the ordinary people who are amongst the poorest in the world in one of the poorest regions of the world.
Worst of all, however, hundreds of local fishermen are being killed each year and, if the excellent Channel 4 documentary on the Mauritanian agreement is any guide, some are being deliberately run down by trawlers engaged in illegal fishing permitted by a deliberately lax, ill-equipped monitoring and enforcement regime.
If, as we say, we care about the poor and oppressed, if we believe in the right to life, then this House should support me in attempting to shine a light on this disgraceful situation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, what we have just heard is absolutely a minority opinion in this House, and I think we are all delighted about that.
A part of that fleet can now be included in the agreement with Mauritania, which will help to relieve the difficult situation which had been created.
The European Parliament is thereby giving its opinion on the Gallagher report on this agreement, which is essential to the European Union, in record time.
Commissioner, I hope that this intolerable practice by Morocco will not be repeated in the future, since it would jeopardise the achievements of the fisheries agreement with Mauritania.
I would ask you to take good note of this, in order to prevent any repetition of these practices, since vessels obviously have to pass through Morocco' s economic zone in order to reach Mauritania.
As you know, we have a history of good fisheries relations with Mauritania.
In addition, more Mauritanian seamen will be taken on board EU ships in future.
Catch monitoring and controls have been strengthened and we have also increased the amount for so-called targeted actions significantly, by a total of EUR 20 million for the term of the agreement.
Production and marketing of honey The next item is the report (A5-0381/2001) by Mrs Lulling, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the Commission report on the implementation of Council Regulation (EC) No 1221/97 laying down general rules for the application of measures to improve the production and marketing of honey [COM(2001) 70 - C5-0398/2001 - 2001/2156(COS)].
It is incomprehensible, nay irritating in the extreme, that the Commission persists in doing nothing, despite its report on the unsatisfactory implementation of the inadequate measures based on the half-hearted 1997 regulation and despite its acknowledgement that European beekeeping has to contend with increasing difficulties.
We need both the immediate measures called for in the report and medium-term direct aid pending the mid-term view of Agenda 2000, especially premiums to compensate for loss of income because there is no Community preference in this sector.
First, we are aware of the need for quality following the BSE crisis and, secondly, we are aware of the need to be able to obtain healthy food from our own soil following the crisis on 11 September.
They are all the more deserving of our attention.
That is why I welcome the work done by our excellent rapporteur, Mrs Lulling, and by all of the Members of the Committee on Agriculture who unanimously adopted the amendments which we tabled together.
And to safeguard the future of this industry in the long term, it is essential that, in the future, procedures for the approval of plant protection products take account of their effects on bees in terms of death or alteration in behaviour; this is our Paragraph 17.
Programmes to improve the conditions under which honey is produced and marketed are regularly submitted by all Member States for approval and, with only 80% of available funds being taken up, the satisfactory application of Regulation 1221/97 would clearly appear to be guaranteed.
The Commission would therefore be delighted if the Member States and the enterprises in question were to take up all these funds in order to implement as many measures as possible within the current legal framework, in order to help the sector and allow it to develop in line with the rapporteur's considerations.
When the report on the first three years' application of this regulation was submitted to the Council, the representatives of the Member States raised no objections whatsoever and approved the Commission's conclusions unanimously.
The economy in the honey sector is stable, production and imports have remained steady and the self-supply rate has fluctuated between 48 and 50% for several years and is therefore nothing new.
I should therefore like this not only noted in the minutes but also brought to your attention, Mr President, so that, since we shall be making a formal protest, the Bureau is kept informed of the fact that committees are meeting after being convened with only 33 minutes' notice - something I find rather odd, not to say strange, not to say inappropriate.
For example, journalists must now apply for a work permit before they are allowed to write.
The situation is alarming.
Mr President, this is the second urgent resolution on Zimbabwe that we have put forward in just over three months.
We are calling for smart sanctions that would directly hit Mugabe, his family and his cronies.
Our resolve should be made absolutely clear in the meeting scheduled to take place next week between the European Union and Zimbabwean representatives under the terms of Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement.
Our resolution today sets out clearly what has to be done.
We have the Council to thank for finally getting Article 96 of the Cotonou agreement moving since the last resolution.
Despite massive attempts to intimidate the electors - and we shall no doubt see an action replay of that now - and despite massive support for the opposition candidates, which has ended in death in a multitude of cases, the MDC achieved a remarkable result, clearly signalling to Mugabe that political change was on the horizon.
Now, with presidential elections imminent, Mugabe is again tightening the screw of force and terror.
When Mr Mugabe became the first President of Zimbabwe some 40 years ago, that land-locked country in Africa was a rich nation that could feed its population and export food to neighbouring countries.
After independence in Zimbabwe, the Lancaster House Agreement between Britain, as the colonial power, and Zimbabwe allowed for land redistribution to black families and appropriate compensation to white farmers without any loss of production.
Mugabe has failed in implementing these reforms.
Since independence, Mugabe has had much time to establish real democracy, rule of law and prosperity for all.
Mugabe should not fear.
If he is still a Catholic, then he should listen to Archbishop Ncube of Zimbabwe who has also condemned him regularly without fear.
Mr President, Article 96 consultations will not be easy but we should give them a chance.
Zimbabwe confirmed its participation, but the original date of 19 December for the start of these consultations was yesterday postponed.
I would like to reassure Parliament that these consultations cover practically the totality of the issues raised in their draft resolutions.
Finally, not pre-judging the outcome of the consultations and handling them in the spirit of the Cotonou agreement is not only necessary to address the situation with Zimbabwe, it is also necessary to maintain mutual trust and confidence between the EU and ACP countries.
But respecting the rules and the spirit of these consultations is not the same as carrying them out in a vague and weak manner.
A key requirement will be that no international observation mission - whether multilateral or bilateral - is manipulated by Mugabe into sending short-term observers only for polling day.
In parallel, the SADC Electoral Forum and the Electoral Commissions Forum of SADC countries are being encouraged to open a dialogue with the Zimbabwe authorities and the political parties, on the preparations for the presidential election.
But this is the preferred option, and Zimbabwe should welcome the EU observers.
The Commission has also participated in the UNDP land mission.
To sign or not to sign is a very important question in many cases and here it is quite clear that we want the consultations concluded before we move on.
But not to prepare would also imply lack of respect of the whole process of planning in the Cotonou framework.
The regional dimension is important.
It is, in fact, the first time ever that the opening of these consultations has included a reference to the use of our partners in the region.
The Commission and presidency have proceeded with a series of informal exchanges with SADC and Nigeria against this background.
We note that these African partners are already exerting effective peer pressure on Mugabe so that a solution to the crisis may be found.
The vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
Cluster bombs The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B5-0765/2001 by Sakellariou, Wiersma and van den Berg, on behalf of the PSE Group, B5-0775/2001 by Brie, Frahm, Eriksson, Korakas, Figueiredo, Marset Campos, Papayannakis, Boudjenah and Seppänen, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, B5-0782/2001 by McKenna, Maes, Schroedter, Lucas and Isler Béguin, on behalf of the Greens/European Free Alliance Group, B5-0789/2001 by van den Bos, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on cluster bombs.
Mr President, I wanted to begin my speech by expressing my horror at this war in Afghanistan and any other war.
We have always spoken out very clearly against the Taliban government and the measures it took against its own population, against women' s rights in particular.
A weapon which, together with anti-personnel mines, makes enormous areas of our planet uninhabitable.
I believe that nobody in this House has expressed the horror of any war better than our recent winner of the Sakharov Prize, the Israeli Nurit Peled-Elhanan, who spoke here yesterday.
Refugees cannot return, because the area is no longer inhabitable.
This bombardment will set the peace process and economic development in Afghanistan back years.
Otherwise I can see Mugabe will just keep on deferring it until nothing happens at all.
Turning to the cluster bomb issue, I have to say that I have been one of the foremost activists in support of the campaign to ban antipersonnel landmines because our armed forces recognise that their limited military utility is outweighed by the danger that they so often pose to civilians, often many years after a conflict is over.
I have to say that cluster bombs are not antipersonnel landmines and it is bogus to try and confuse these two issues.
There are some elements in the resolution that I can support, but I am suspicious of some of its driving elements.
We are fighting a terrorist regime but we run the risk of not preparing for peace and of becoming embroiled in this conflict with no clear peace programme or prospects.
The Commission shares Parliament' s concern about the humanitarian, economic and social problems caused by a variety of unexploded ordnance such as cluster bombs and the particular difficulties of clearing contaminated areas.
At the review conference, which is being held in Geneva from 11 to 21 December 2001, the EU will present a common position on the issue of the unexploded remnants of war, requesting concrete steps to address this issue under the CCW framework.
We are already engaged in such broader clearance activities in countries such as Laos and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Kosovo, where the anti-personnel landmine problem is very clearly connected to unexploded ordnance pollution.
We walked on marked paths in areas where I counted 30 to 40 recent non-exploded cluster bombs.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
Human rights The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Women in Afghanistan - B5-0763/2001 by Crowley, on behalf of the UEN Group, B5-0766/2001 by Gröner, Theorin, van den Berg and Izquierdo Rojo, on behalf of the PSE Group, B5-0776/2001 by Fraisse, Eriksson, Morgantini, González Álvarez, Ainardi, Figueiredo and Uca, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, B5-0784/2001 by Jillian Evans, Hautala, Sörensen, Breyer, Isler Béguin, Buitenweg, Auroi and Schroedter, on behalf of the Greens/European Free Alliance Group, B5-0790/2001 by Dybkjær, Malmström and van den Bos, on behalf of the ELDR Group, B5-0802/2001 by Thomas Mann, Banotti, Maij-Weggen, De Sarnez, Avilés Perea, Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou and Tannock, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Indonesia- B5-0762/2001 by Belder, on behalf of the EDD Group, B5-0767/2001 by van den Berg, on behalf of the PSE Group, B5-0783/2001 by McKenna and Lagendijk, on behalf of the Greens/European Free Alliance Group, B5-0791/2001 by Maaten, on behalf of the ELDR Group, B5-0798/2001 by Muscardini, on behalf of the UEN Group, B5-0803/2001 by Maij-Weggen, Deva and Posselt, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Immigration in Ireland- B5-0777/2001 by Boudjenah, Morgantini, Frahm, Korakas, Herman Schmid, Miranda and Papayannakis, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, B5-0796/2001 by Andrews, on behalf of the UEN Group, B5-0800/2001 by Terrón i Cusí, De Rossa and Karamanou, on behalf of the PSE Group, B5-0805/2001 by Doyle, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Togo- B5-0760/2001 by Pasqua, on behalf of the UEN Group, B5-0768/2001 by Carlotti and van den Berg, on behalf of the PSE Group, B5-0778/2001 by Morgantini, Sylla, Cossutta, Marset Campos and Sjöstedt, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, B5-0786/2001 by Rod and Maes, on behalf of the Greens/European Free Alliance Group, B5-0793/2001 by van den Bos and Dybkjær, on behalf of the ELDR Group, B5-0804/2001 by Schwaiger, Maij-Weggen, Johan Van Hecke, van Velzen and Posselt, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Aung San Suu Kyi and Leyla Zana- B5-0769/2001 by van den Berg and Swoboda, on behalf of the PSE Group, B5-0779/2001 by Vinci, Uca, Ainardi, Figueiredo, Eriksson, Frahm and Seppänen, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, B5-0792/2001 by Malmström, on behalf of the ELDR Group, B5-0797/2001 by Muscardini, on behalf of the UEN Group, B5-0806/2001 by Maij-Weggen, Lamassoure and Van Orden, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, B5-0809/2001 by Cohn-Bendit, Maes, Wuori and Frassoni, on behalf of the Greens/European Free Alliance Group.
Around 50 leading representatives from every social group in the country attended the conference, in a bid to make the voice of Afghan women heard in the current international political debate.
The women and girls of Afghanistan have had to withstand 20 years of war and constant infringement of their human rights.
But we need staying power and committed women to ensure that women get peace, freedom and equality in Afghanistan.
We must not let up until women's rights are fully respected as human rights under the future constitution.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we live in the same world as the women of Afghanistan.
I should like to recall their Declaration of the Essential Rights of Afghan Women, which they adopted in Dushanbe on 28 June 2000.
Paragraph 5 of the resolution calls for the UN to focus particularly on establishing equality between men and women in Afghanistan, because these women have really been the symbols of many things.
Six months ago, when we were debating the situation in Afghanistan, they were the symbols of the destruction of the Bamiyan Buddha statues, and even of their own oppression.
It is important that women and children should survive the winter.
I should also like to draw Mr Nielson' s attention to the special report prepared by my predecessor, Mrs Rehn, on the UN' s peacekeeping activities and ask him to note that there is a lot to do when it comes to the treatment of women by the peacekeeping forces.
With the end of the Taliban's reign of terror and its mediaeval regime in sight, the brutal suppression of women's rights will also come to an end.
On behalf of the PPE and as a member of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, I support the proposal to make the 8 March next year Afghan Women's Day.
This was well before they, and their tragic country, became the focus of the world on 11 September, as the Taliban's link with the perpetrators of the attack on the USA became clear to everybody.
However, after my meeting I decided that, in Afghanistan, my western views on social and political rights for women would no doubt, in the eyes of the old mujaheddin guard, such as President Rabbani, classify me, too, as a revolutionary.
I welcome the participation of two women in the interim government and I am hopeful that the new generation of younger, progressive and modern political leaders will see the way to establish a new order based on equality of the sexes and on full political and social rights enshrined in their international treaty obligations, and cease to regard women and their role as a purely economic one and a procreative one and banish them to invisibility in their burkas.
Women were once, in the 1960s and 1970s, welcomed by the government of King Mohammed Zahir Shah as full participating members of society in their professions, in higher education and in politics.
Mr President, given Saudi Arabia' s anti-women pedigree, is it coherent that at the meeting in Washington on 20 November, that country should be named as part of the group that will lead the reconstruction of Afghanistan?
We need a plan containing urgent measures in order that Afghanistan may embark on reconstruction and the road to peace and progress.
A few women have removed or raised their burka, some men have had a shave, music has started to be played again, but there is fear of punishment and vendettas.
For years, Afghan and also European women have been denouncing the oppression and violence of the Taliban regime to deaf ears in the West.
The mines that maim were produced in western factories; the cluster bombs, dropped in their thousands in recent days and lying unexploded, are products of our factories; ours are the perverse patents allowing mines to be designed in the shape of butterflies or dolls; ours are the pretty yellow cluster bombs, the same colour as the packets of food dropped from aircraft.
The Common Position is renewed annually and clearly sets out among its objectives the promotion of respect for international law and human rights, including the rights of women and children.
As a result, the Commission, through its ECHO-financed programmes and through its budget for aid to uprooted people, continued, even during the Taliban period, to finance actions which provided health care and education for women and girls and provided employment opportunities and training for women.
Many of them work in projects that we are funding, did so during the Taliban regime and have continued doing so since September 11.
Changes are now possible and we hope that what was achieved in Bonn on December 5 will pave the way for a big improvement in the situation of women and girls in the country.
The Provisional Agreement makes a number of specific references to the guaranteed participation of women in the next phases of the political process - the Loya Jirga and the Transitional Administration.
All of this will be overseen by the UN which has a constitutional role, recognised in the Provisional Agreement, to monitor the conduct of the Interim Authority and the emergency Loya Jirga, as well as providing for the development and implementation of a programme of human rights education to promote respect for and understanding of human rights in Afghanistan.
The Commission is currently processing new, additional aid programmes worth EUR 28.5 million, which will start being implemented in the coming weeks, for emergency aid and aid to uprooted people.
Gender will, of course, be either a specific or horizontal issue in all of these programmes.
ECHO is already present in Kabul and we will formally inaugurate the ECHO office there in the middle of January.
Commission officials plan to start being there permanently from 1 February 2002.
Using the Islamic terror group Laskar Jihad as a front, thousands of these fighters, some of them foreign, recently arrived on the island of Sulawesi.
The thirty-nine-year-old Ya'far Umar Thalib from Yogyakarta, Pakistan-trained leader of this terrorist organisation set up in the late 1990s, denies the presence of Bin Laden' s followers.
Since the conflict first erupted on Amboina on 19 January 1999, one day before the Islamic festival of Idul Fitr, Laskar Jihad has murdered at least 10 000 Christians and has put many times that number to flight in terror of their lives.
The boy was sitting on the bus with his mother.
I ask both the Council and the Commission to do their utmost to contribute to the combating of terrorism in Indonesia, to explore in what way they could support a process of conciliation on the ground, and to examine what measures they can take to promote economic development in this region.
Since 1999 there has been some democratisation, but that is proceeding terribly slowly: on the one hand attempts are being made to strengthen democracy, on the other hand fierce ethnic conflicts are raging in many areas.
Let us therefore distance ourselves completely from the terrorists, the Jihad, and at the same time support the Indonesian authorities.
Ordinary citizens, whether Christian or Muslim, are not interested in the Jihad.
It is essential that those responsible are brought to justice.
We also believe that the Indonesian Government should call a halt to the army's commercial activities in Papua.
Thousands have died on Sulawesi alone, where there has been two years of fighting.
The Indonesian Government needs to make an effort to ensure coexistence between the Muslim and the Christian populations, which had been possible for many years.
Mr President, since November, after a relatively peaceful period in Indonesia, we have again been alarmed by serious outbreaks of violence in, for example, Sulawesi and Celebes and by the murder of Theys Hiyo Eluay, the leader of the Papuas in Irian Jaya.
I should like first to say a few words about the murder of Theys Hiyo Eluay, which took place on 10 November after he had had discussions on behalf of the Papuan community with the senior command of the Indonesian military forces in West Papua.
Theys Hiyo Eluay was not only a charismatic leader of the Papuas, but was also a moderate man, who did not seek complete independence for his province, but whose aim was autonomy within the Indonesian state and who had succeeded in achieving this autonomy via the Indonesian parliament.
In October autonomy was ratified in the Indonesian parliament and after a dinner with the regional military staff he was murdered on the evening of 10 November.
The Commission also shares the deep concern of honourable Members concerning the recent deterioration of the situation in Sulawesi.
While reports from the area are sometimes unclear, the situation is certainly serious.
A report by a local humanitarian fact-finding mission, which visited the area (including Poso and Tentena) last week, suggests that the situation is now relatively calm, but that it remains very tense.
The Commission' s Delegation in Jakarta, together with the diplomatic missions of the EU Member States, will continue to make every effort to monitor developments in these areas and to draw our concerns to the attention of the Indonesian authorities in EU démarches and other contacts.
A year ago, it was 58 foreigners who were found dead in Dover; the year before, Yaguine and Fodé, two young Guineans, were found dead in the undercarriage of a Sabena plane.
It would appear, Mr President, that there are two ways of tackling immigration issues today.
On the other hand - and we have seen illustrations of this throughout the afternoon - if we do not take into consideration the fact that today three quarters of the earth's population is living in the most absolute poverty; if today we do not cancel the debt of developing countries and if we do not discipline ourselves to invest in health, education and infrastructure, I am convinced that, once again, we will have failed to learn the lessons of history, as recent as it is.
Today, these destitute men and women, who are totally neglected, form a breeding ground for terrorism, a place where terrorism thrives.
Mr President, I have been so bold as to intervene without taking notes because I really do not think that we can continue to treat these people with such great inhumanity.
The discovery of eight bodies, plus the five people who are seriously ill, in a container in Wexford in Ireland was an appalling tragedy which has shocked people, not just in Ireland, but all across Europe.
The very thought of little children being put through that kind of terror is inconceivable.
The tragedy demonstrates once again the desperate lengths to which people are prepared to go to try to improve circumstances for themselves and their families.
We hear much about the privileged treatment given to asylum seekers and I hope we will hear no more of this.
The reality of the terrible experience facing many immigration and asylum seekers is revealed in eight people dead and others who are seriously ill.
Ireland and Europe have to adopt immigration policies based on full respect for human rights as set out in international conventions, such as the Geneva Convention.
Our policies have to address in a much more forceful way the political, economic and social reasons why people are fleeing their homelands.
I would like to thank you, Mr President and colleagues, for the moment's silence for the awful tragedy which took place only this week in my own home county of Wexford in Ireland.
The tragic death of these eight people, including four children, found in the freight container just highlights the daily plight of many asylum-seekers and refugees throughout the European Union.
I would like to join personally with colleagues in this House in expressing my condolences to all those associated with this tragedy.
The scale and European-wide nature of this problem have been tragically highlighted by these episodes and it is up to us as a European Community to respond far better than we have done heretofore.
If the EU Council Summit at Laeken this weekend only addresses the issue of the strengthening of borders as a response to this modern day slave trade, it will have failed not only to respect these values but also to fulfil its leadership role.
The single market has brought many benefits to our citizens, but it has also provided the criminals with just that - a single market for their activities.
In conclusion, the historical legacy of Irish economic migration throughout the world in the past two centuries, particularly during and after our Irish potato famine of 1845-1849 is one which we as Irish Europeans should not ignore.
If the deaths of migrants in freight containers, on the undercarriages of trains or in ship holds in recent months demonstrates anything, it is that responses to economic migration based solely on the monitoring of the illegal movement of people will not prevent people from resorting to desperate measures to travel to Europe.
We are trying to prevent people from coming in and we need to implement measures which will prevent asylum-seekers resorting to traffickers in their effort to reach a country where they can seek asylum, as they are entitled to do under the Geneva Convention.
There is quite a lot of hypocrisy concerning this issue, and I would like to refer to my own Minister for Justice in Ireland, John O'Donoghue.
To highlight this minister's hypocrisy further: yesterday, for the first time in the history of the Geneva Convention, there was a meeting of the 141 countries that signed that Convention in 1951.
Everyone has in mind the tragic deaths of 58 Chinese stowaways in Dover last year, but unfortunate people die almost every week trying to reach what they consider to be a unique area of peace and prosperity.
This is why the Commission put forward in November a communication on a common policy on illegal immigration, aiming at creating synergy of national efforts by adding a European dimension.
It is crucial in building up support for a common asylum regime based on the highest humanitarian standards, as well as genuine immigration policy in line with our tradition of hospitality and solidarity.
More efficient controls at the external borders, improved consular cooperation and reinforced police and judicial cooperation, are key elements.
The framework decision on combating trafficking in human beings, the directive on carriers' liability and the directive and the framework decision on the liability of smugglers, already approved by the Council, are only first steps.
In a broader framework, it is crucial to ensure a swift ratification and a coordinated implementation of the UN Palermo Convention against transnational organised crime and its two protocols on trafficking and smuggling, which now form the basis for a global recognition of the problem and a stronger approach to tackle it.
A major political effort to fill these gaps as soon as possible would be our best tribute to the memory of the victims of Wexford.
Togo Mr President, Togo is still in a state of political paralysis.
The leader of the students' union, Hounjo Mawudzuro, has been imprisoned.
Last August, the chairman of the main opposition party, Yawovi Agboyibo, was sentenced to six months in prison on fallacious grounds.
In fact only someone who is guilty can apply for a pardon and Yawovi Agboyibo is not guilty.
He should be released unconditionally and be able to stand as a candidate in the parliamentary elections which are to be held next March.
These are dependent on what happens upstream, and in particular on the rules stating who can vote and who can stand as a candidate, just as we saw in the past in Côte d'Ivoire and as we see today in Congo-Brazzaville.
Only if human rights are respected and the rule of law upheld will it be possible for normal cooperation relations between Togo and the European Union to be resumed.
If everything goes according to plan, we shall be able to talk and hold discussions with parliamentarians from the new West African regional assembly of the regional parliament at next year's ACP assembly.
The Commission has taken note of the government's decision to schedule parliamentary elections for 10 and 24 March next year.
The Commission has earmarked about EUR 1.56 million to help prepare the elections.
The Commission continues to monitor political developments and respect for human rights closely, especially in view of the early parliamentary elections.
The main objective of such assistance is to help the government establish the conditions for transparent, free and democratic elections that would enable the European Union to resume cooperation with Togo.
We hope change is possible, but this is a very difficult case.
Winners of the Sakharov Prize: Aung San Suu Kyi and Leyla Zana Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Aung San Suu Kyi and Leyla Zana are two Sakharov prize-winners who have never been able to come and receive their awards.
They are also both female politicians.
I wish - if you do not mind - to stress first of all the word female, because these two women are politicians in countries where it is very difficult to attain this rank and to break into this field.
If I say two female politicians, however, then I must also say that these are two women who have been elected.
They have therefore been elected democratically and are the representatives of a nation, of a section of a nation, of a political movement in one case and a Kurdish minority in the other.
In both cases, these are, at any rate, women who represent people other than themselves.
I have to say that this is already a considerable achievement: they are women, they are politicians and they are elected.
I must also add that these are two women who are courageous.
That is not so in the cases of two former recipients of the prize: Aung San Suu Kyi, who received the prize in 1990, and Leyla Zana, who received it in 1995.
Aung San Suu Kyi has been kept in solitary confinement and under house arrest for an unimaginably long time.
Together with the other political prisoners in the country, Aung San Suu Kyi must be released immediately.
I hope that Turkey will be able to play its part in this House one day.
Leyla Zana and all the other political prisoners in Turkey must also be released.
In this House, there is firm cross-party resolve to keep on reminding the world, including Burma and Turkey, of the fate of these two women and of the struggle for human rights, democracy and freedom of expression that they represent.
Mr President, it is over ten years since Aung San Suu Kyi, the President of Burma elected by 80% of the population, received both the Nobel Prize and the Sakharov Prize for her peaceful protest against the military coup and the military dictatorship in her country.
Over half the members of parliament have fled, are in prison, have been driven into exile or have been killed, and several million Burmese have fled to India, Bangladesh, Thailand, Malaysia, the United States and Europe.
Our question is again: European Commission, institute an investment embargo or an economic boycott against this country, as the United States has now done.
Let Turkey show that it wishes to be a country governed by the rule of law and that it wants to grant Leyla Zana as soon as possible a full place in its society and in the parliament to which she has been elected.
I would add that the activities of Parliament on matters such as this are important in themselves and also important to the way in which Europe is perceived both by Europeans and globally.
The General Affairs Council, in the conclusions of its October meeting, called for the release of all remaining political prisoners in Burma including Aung San Suu Kyi.
It is a measure of both her courage and her commitment to non-violent action that Aung San Suu Kyi has decided to remain in her country under detention and to engage in discussions with the authorities responsible for that detention in order to pursue her goal of establishing democracy in her country.
Her persistence, her passion and her wisdom have been instrumental in the positive developments that have occurred in Burma over the last year, even though it must be recalled that these developments are only the beginning of a process which needs to be further deepened and to evolve into a constructive and more concrete dialogue based on respect for internationally accepted standards of human rights.
Therefore, while we salute Aung San Suu Kyi and assure her of our continued admiration and support, we also encourage the government to pursue this groundbreaking dialogue actively.
The vote will be taken today at 6.30 p.m.
Nepal is one of the poorest countries in the world, with only USD 220 in GDP per person per year.
The escalation in violence has claimed over 2 500 lives in less than six months.
King Gyanendra deserves our full support.
But we call on the government and the parties to get on with economic and structural reform at long last and to fight corruption consistently.
The people deserve proper measures to fight poverty.
Child soldiers are being recruited, and I wonder whether this will provide a solution in a country that wishes to avoid civil war but where 12% of the population owns 95% of the property and holds 70% of the power and where, furthermore, corruption reigns supreme.
The Maoists have meanwhile occupied part of the country.
The Commission agrees that there is a risk that the country is drifting towards civil war.
The Commission is currently preparing its cooperation strategy for the next five years.
The EU-Nepal political dialogue should be continued and further strengthened while cooperation targets should include promotion of development initiatives in the most deprived areas of the country, to counteract the frustrations and resentment of local people.
The vote will be taken at 6.30 p.m.
The Congo The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: (B5-0773/2001) by van den Berg and Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, on behalf of the PSE Group; (B5-0781/2001) by Sylla and Miranda, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group; (B5-0785/2001) by Maes and Rod, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group; (B5-0795/2001) by van den Bos and Dybkjær, on behalf of the ELDR Group; (B5-0808/2001) by Johan Van Hecke and Posselt, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group; on the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Over 2 million people have been killed and 1 million people live in fear in refugee camps.
The UN passed resolution 1376 on 7 November 2001.
The EUR 10 million are going to basic healthcare in the government-controlled part and the EUR 35 million to the eastern part where no-one else is doing anything like this.
Actually disbursing EUR 45 million for these purposes in the circumstances there is quite an achievement, and I am very proud of it on behalf of the many people working there, many of them still in very dangerous circumstances.
We support it not only politically - the Commission has already funded the Lusaka negotiations by a grant of EUR 2.65 million from the SADC regional programme.
Nevertheless the Commission is concerned about the lack of concrete results following the talks in the framework of the Inter-Congolese Dialogue that took place in Addis Ababa on 15-19 October.
So all these things have to be addressed in some sort of balanced overall approach.
I would like to stress that the Commission' s action in the Great Lakes is only part of a wide and sustained effort to enhance the EU's overall political presence as a partner in Africa.
With the Cotonou Agreement, the Union has confirmed that it had no intention of reducing our long-standing cooperation in Africa and the EUR 15 billion envelope that we have outlined and will commit over the next five years clearly demonstrates this determination.
The vote will be taken at 6.30 p.m.
New European Labour Markets, Open to All, with Access for All The next item is the report (A5-0375/2001) by Mauro Nobilia, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the Commission communication on New European Labour Markets, Open to All, with Access for All (COM(2001) 116 - C5-0188/2001 - 2001/2084(COS).
We hope that the relevant proposals and an efficient action plan will be submitted to us at the spring summit.
The new labour market should not be open just to small, special groups; it must be open to every employee in Europe.
We also need a detailed investigation of possible malfunctions on the labour market in border regions or in specific sectors, such as the building and transport industries.
It is a very useful input to the preparation of the action plan on skills and mobility announced in that communication.
The High-Level Task Force on Skills and Mobility, which was set up on a proposal from the Commission following the Stockholm European Council, will soon recommend a set of additional policy initiatives at EU and national levels to open the new European labour markets to all by 2005.
Its report will be submitted to the Commission in December this year, on the basis of which the Commission will present an action plan to the Barcelona Council in spring 2002.
The rapporteur met the chairman and members of the task force at their most recent meeting, when Parliament's draft opinion had already been forwarded to the task force.
The action plan will propose a set of policy initiatives, taking the form of a framework for action, to be transposed into more concrete legal texts, programmes or initiatives, in which not only the Member States, but also the social partners, regional and local authorities and other relevant organisations will be involved.
But we also have to bear in mind that the dynamics of the labour market should not reduce access to these for people who have until now been excluded from these new developments.
I share the objective of involving social partners more in the national action plans.
There are still important differences in the tax treatment of individuals and enterprises between the Member States, but it would go beyond the scope of the Commission's action plan to present specific proposals in this area.
Fourthly, he recommends better access by local and regional bodies to research opportunities in the Sixth Framework Programme.
To conclude, l should like to thank Parliament once again for this report, for its input into the Commission's Action Plan, and for its support for further opening up of the European labour markets.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 6.30 p.m.
Language diversity The next item is the joint debate on the following oral questions to the Commission: (B5-0537/01) by Eluned Morgan and Barbara O'Toole, on behalf of the PSE Group, on minority languages. (B5-0753/01) by Eurig Wyn and others, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group on language diversity.
The fact that we have not discussed this reflects the problems that are faced by lesser-used language communities in terms of their relationship with the EU.
We also want to see culture on a majority voting basis within the Council so that the Commission can present a programme specifically on lesser-used languages which I know the Commission has already.
But I hope this will be a first step and we will see an own-initiative report on this in future.
Languages are an integral part of Europe's linguistic and cultural diversity.
They lie at the heart of the fundamental rights of its citizens and are a key factor in the creation of a peaceful and democratic Europe.
The recent Council decision emphasises that, 'all European languages are equal in value and dignity from the cultural point of view'.
This is why I particularly support the amendments referring to the mainstreaming of programmes and I am calling for support for a multiannual programme by 2003.
We must ensure that Article 22 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights is on the agenda of the next Intergovernmental Conference and that we also push for qualified majority voting in Council.
Let us work together to ensure that regional and lesser-used languages are here to stay and remain part of the culturally diverse Europe of the future.
I am not speaking Danish here today - that is not an option really.
I could, but honestly, in my personal opinion, if we are serious about European integration, we have to be prepared to swallow our pride occasionally in order to do things in an effective manner.
Here, the Year of Languages is drawing to a close, but it is not quite over yet and many activities are still in progress.
Of the 200-odd projects that are co-financed by the Commission, most are still running and many events will take place throughout Europe in the remaining weeks of the year.
The Commission considers that the end of 2001 should not be the end of the European Year of Languages initiative.
A report will be presented to the other European Institutions by 31 December 2002 at the latest, in accordance with the provisions of Article 11 of Decision No 1934/2000/EC establishing the European Year of Languages 2001.
Furthermore, on 29 November of this year, the Council adopted an important resolution on the promotion of linguistic diversity and language learning.
Regional and minority languages will therefore be taken into account both in the report that the Commission will present to the other institutions in the course of 2002 and in the proposals for actions to be presented in 2003.
As stated in Article 22 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Union respects cultural, religious and linguistic diversity in its various programmes and activities.
We support these efforts which have to have a very broad aim in order to have the effect we intended.
I think that Article 3 is better than Amendment No 4.
On another question, all of us here in the House - including me personally - are in favour of qualified majority voting on cultural affairs.
Finally, I should like to say that we in the European People's Party are ready to suggest an own initiative report on lesser-used languages at the next meeting of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport.
It is the seventh language when compared to the eleven official languages and the ninth when compared to the 22 languages following enlargement.
This hope is better expressed by my friend, the poet Jordi Gabarró.
Our former fellow member Siegbert Alber once said that in Europe we are all minorities.
During the vote on Amendment No 2 to the joint resolution on Immigration in Ireland: Mr President, I want to remove the second part of the amendment because apparently a lot of people would support the first part, but not the second part.
In any case, I should like to thank you for your proposal.
Regional and lesser-used languages of the European Union.
Mr Esteven, we do have the word "regional" right at the beginning.
However, we have voted against paragraph 15 of the Nobilia report, as the idea of setting up a European framework of incomes policy and social security cuts directly into Member States' competences.
How, then, could anyone vote against this document, which seeks to improve the production of honey in Europe and help beekeepers produce larger and more profitable quantities of this nectar of the gods?
Resolution on linguistic diversity Mr President, I just wanted to say that, like my fellow Member Bernd Posselt, I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution out of conviction.
Nonetheless, it is a step in the right direction and we hope that the plenary sittings and the committee responsible will not just discuss the issue of lesser-used languages, regional languages and minority languages in the Year of Languages, but will take a specific, targeted and positive approach to this problem in general, so that the problems which have arisen in the past from majorities or minorities remain a thing of the past and positive solutions to these problems can be found.
