The role of volunteering in contributing to economic and social cohesion (debate) The next item is the report by Marian Harkin on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development on the role of volunteering in contributing to economic and social cohesion.
Over 100 million Europeans volunteer - that is an incredible figure!
The Commission has a role to play in ensuring that Member States adhere to the partnership principle enshrined in the Community strategic guidelines on cohesion and to ensure that we do not continue with the illusion of inclusion of NGOs, voluntary groups etc., as is the current situation in many Member States.
We can do this by supporting volunteers and voluntary activity in a tangible way. (Applause) Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I wish to thank Ms Harkin very much indeed for her report.
We will meet here again in May to discuss the report of Ms de Brún, in which, I am convinced, examples of local empowerment, in particular through the voluntary sector and non-governmental organisations, will be strongly present.
With regard to your recommendation on in-kind contribution, let me say that, while Article 56 of the general Regulation on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund already allows for in-kind contribution to EU co-financed projects, the real challenge is the use of this provision.
But of course, as you know, we have a great variety of approaches towards partnership and volunteering in our Member States.
The White Paper on sport also stresses that voluntary activities in the sport sector strengthen social cohesion and inclusion and promote local democracy and active citizenship.
Let me also assure you that all other requests that are addressed more specifically to the Commission will be examined, in particular by Commissioners Figeľ and Špidla.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, I would like first of all to congratulate Ms Harkin on an excellent and timely report.
I would like to express my thanks once more for this excellent cooperation.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I welcome Marian Harkin's report on volunteering and congratulate her on her collaboration with colleagues in its drafting.
Over a hundred million EU citizens volunteer, and every one euro spent in supporting them generates a return of between three and eight euros.
In an ageing society, in a society where there is an increasing number of young retirees, we also need this individual work-life balance that is achieved through volunteering.
Therefore, for economic reasons, but also with a view to the fulfilment of the human values shared by Europe's citizens - more than 100 million of them - let us make efforts to promote voluntary work in our societies and hope that, in the years to come, there will be well in excess of 100 million European citizens engaged in voluntary activity.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of the UEN Group I wish to express our huge appreciation to Marian Harkin for tackling this subject.
I also wish to highlight the very fine idea of declaring 2011 European year of volunteering.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I too would like to thank Marian Harkin very much indeed for her balanced and comprehensive report.
There are countless voluntary initiatives currently in place in the Member States which make important contributions, not only economically but also socially and in terms of integration.
Their efforts give social cohesion a very personal face.
The new Paragraph 17 deals with whether or not volunteer work should be rewarded with tax incentives.
Yet this activity is underestimated, in my opinion and too unfamiliar to the public.
Therefore I hope that Parliament's adoption of this report will ensure that the importance of volunteering is acknowledged and that the Commission and Member States will do all in their power to facilitate and encourage this practice. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report by our fellow Member Mrs Harkin on volunteering is a way for the European Parliament to demonstrate its social aspect to European citizens.
In my country, Greece, for example, the 2004 Olympic volunteers won us our most significant medal.
In this context I would draw your attention to Paragraph 15 of the report.
By acquiring experience in volunteer organisations at an early stage, they would perceive participation in volunteer work as a routine contribution to the life of their local communities and to European society. (PL) Mr President, today we are debating Mrs Harkin's report on volunteering in the European Union.
I also want to take this opportunity to call for 2011 to be designated the European Year of Volunteering and ask for the support of Parliament in signing the written declaration which has been proposed by Members from the five largest political groups.
If the Commission were to designate 2011 the European Year of Volunteers, this would allow the EU institutions, in collaboration with voluntary organisations, to work towards common objectives, as I said earlier, to add value at European level.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 22 April 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) , in writing. - (HU) In Europe more than a hundred million people work as civilian volunteers for the public good and for others.
To give support to voluntary work and enhance social recognition, it is important that a community of purpose is created, with transfer of best practice and experience by the active players - government, business, trade unions and voluntary organisations - working together in dialogue and in partnership.
in writing. - (SK) I would like to speak on a very personal note.
This is an almost existential principle of creating the human capital that is so in demand for the future of social cohesion in the regions.
