Renewable energy is, of course, central to efforts to reduce our dependency on fossil fuels, but sometimes, as we have discovered, solutions can lead to other problems, and that has certainly been the case in relation to the debate about food versus fuel production.
I would like us to look in the widest possible context at an effective land-use policy.
It is very important, here in the European Union, that we marry agriculture and energy with concerns about climate change, but also we need to do this, equally, at global level.
Thus, development of the third generation of energy from biomass and biogas has my full support. - (CS) The climate package is a realistic compromise which accords both with my vision of sustainable management for the resources of this planet and with my support for European industrial competitiveness and employment.
It is through this report that the Europe of today, despite the incipient economic crisis, votes again to take responsibility for what sort of Earth we will bestow to future generations.
In this way, it was possible to reach a compromise which retains the original ambitious goals for protecting the environment while setting out conditions which will not restrict the activities of industry and which are not hostile to industry. (HU) The reason I voted for the compromise version of the Doyle report is that it incorporates important amending letters into the directive.
We need a very strong voice at European level so that global deforestation is tackled.
I have been to Brazil; I know what is happening there and in other countries, and if we do not address this, all our efforts here at EU level will be in vain. (PL) Mr President, the document on the system for trading greenhouse gas emissions provides support for the necessary technical measures which, ultimately, aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
The proposed trading system might encourage speculation, which could have a negative impact on resources earmarked for technical activities.
I do not support the Directive in its present form. - (CS) I support the gradual elimination of cost-free permits to emit greenhouse gases for a broad spectrum of industries.
I appreciate that the French Presidency has managed to bring about an agreement between the old and the new Member States and has made concessions in the reference year or up to 2007.
This money, rather than being spent in a stupid, even idiotic manner, could be used as part of the real fight to achieve a clean, decent environment and clean, dust-free air, as well as getting rid of poisonous gases and ensuring clean water supplies, something that Europe lacks and which will become increasingly scarce in the future.
It is an utterly ridiculous scheme, of which Parliament should be ashamed. (PL) Mr President, the emissions trading system will play a key role in reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
It remains a particularly controversial subject in the new Member States, including Poland, which believe that the basis used to calculate the achieved result is incorrect.
In the package, this year is set at 2005, but the countries who oppose this choice argue that that correct reference year would be 1990.
Carbon dioxide emissions have already been considerably reduced in these countries following the economic changes they have implemented.
Thus, the proposed package of solutions is still considered as lacking objectivity, and that it fails to take into account the cuts that have been made up to this point and the economic potential of individual countries, while promoting certain of the old EU Member States. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to give the following explanation of vote on behalf of the Land group of Christian Democratic Union of Germany (CDU) MEPs from Baden-Württemberg, Germany.
Legislating in a great hurry - for that is exactly the point - is unacceptable and undemocratic, and the extremely fast legislative procedure and the fact that the Council documents were presented only a few days ago meant that, in our opinion, a professional examination and a study of the documents, and thus proper legislation, was impossible.
This is all the more unacceptable considering that this legislation imposes a particularly high financial burden on the European public.
According to several studies, the climate action and renewable energy package costs the European economy and the European public approximately EUR 70 to 100 billion, and there is the threat of whole industries moving to other parts of the world through carbon leakage.
Legislative proposals as important as this must evolve in the course of a well-ordered procedure with several readings. (HU) I voted in support of the climate package, although it is difficult to see it as being completely positive.
At the same time, the objectives set out in it do not reflect the goals that our scientists have set out in order to put a halt to climate change, which is the greatest challenge facing humanity.
Europe's task is to construct a social and economic model that produces low carbon dioxide emissions, as Europe is among those with the greatest potential to develop the necessary technologies.
All in all, it can be said that given our awareness of our responsibility and our understanding of the magnitude of the tasks before us, we are moving in the right direction, but not at a sufficient pace, and so my vote was in acknowledgment of us moving in the right direction and not of the speed of our progress towards our goal. (HU) The basic problem with this legislation is that certain Central and Eastern European states already significantly reduced their greenhouse gas emissions at the end of the 1980s.
We did get something, but it should be realised that the European Union's climate balance would be far worse without the efforts of the new Member States.
It would be important, therefore, for the old Member States to take part in the allowance trading scheme.
First of all, they should transfer part of their industry to the EU's less developed countries or buy up allowances from them.
I supported this particular report because other sectors need to get involved and share the efforts.
I want to focus in particular, though, on agriculture, which has several problems, but I think we need to remember that agriculture is about food production and we need to take that into account in what we are asking this sector to do.
Not only does that cost the taxpayers of Europe EUR 200 million a year, but it also emits 192 000 tonnes of CO2 - equivalent to 49 000 hot-air balloons.
It is a temporary measure, although there is no other option than development of storage of CO2 because we are going to be producing CO2 into the future.
At the moment, while companies are experiencing great difficulties as a result of the economic crisis, it seems that all our resources should be focused on saving energy and the modernisation and construction of clean power stations which, instead of storing carbon, will dramatically reduce CO2 emissions without incurring additional costs.
Our only opportunity to be heard in this House was to remain here and make an explanation of vote, so I beg your indulgence on that basis.
These measures are already in place in some Member States.
That is, perhaps, the route to success. (PL) Mr President, Mrs Corbey's report on the introduction of a mechanism to monitor and reduce greenhouse gas emissions is important in developing a policy for reducing the greenhouse effect.
These gases cause most harm in large urban areas, where 80% of the population live.
The automobile sector, which is currently going through a difficult period, should receive support to start mass production of these kinds of vehicles.
I want to repeat my point and stress that, while overall, we have supported this energy and climate change package, I think its adoption in a single reading should be regarded as a one-off.
Let us hope it works. - (CS) I have supported the regulation on vehicle CO2 emissions in the version which has resulted from the complex trialogue negotiations.
Through improvements in production technology for engines and also by using more environmentally-friendly tyres, lights and designs, a gradual reduction in emissions will be achieved from today's level of 160 g to 130 g of CO2 per kilometre.
The regulation allows minor variations for small vehicle producers within the framework of the set aims.
It is a pity that Member States are refusing to bring to a permanent end the superfluous and therefore environmentally-unfriendly migrations of the European Parliament twelve times a year from Brussels to Strasbourg. (DE) Mr President, I too support the production of cars that run on less and less fuel.
We should be taking the right course, therefore, and that is why I abstained. (DE) Mr President, I find it particularly regrettable that, despite broad support by Members, my own-initiative motion on keeping Sunday as the non-working day has not been included in the vote in this House.
Secondly, I wish to say that I rejected the Council's positions on the Working Time Directive as working hours would have been extended and on-call time discounted as working time, and also the European rules would have been undermined by a whole host of opt-outs.
I am pleased that Parliament has managed to secure negotiations with the Council. (BG) I would like to express my satisfaction that the European Parliament is voting to drop the opt-out clause, which allows Member States to derogate from the 48 hour working week rule at their own discretion.
We cannot boost our competitiveness at the expense of the health and lives of workers.
Parliament should send the Council a very clear signal telling it what Europe's citizens want.
I did, however, also support the Council's proposals on active and inactive on-call time.
This means that the implementation of the provisions adopted today by the European Parliament would cause my country significant difficulties, also affecting medical workers.
Thank you. (MT) I voted in favour of keeping the opt-out and I am obviously not happy or satisfied with the result of today's vote.
I voted in favour of retaining this opt-out because I am in favour of leaving the decision in the hands of the workers. - (SK) In the vote I supported the common position adopted by the Council with regard to the package of two directives - the Working Time Directive and the Temporary Workers' Directive, because this compromise has secured greater flexibility on the labour market.
According to the opt-out clause, individual EU Member States would be able to allow employees working within their territory to work more than 48 hours a week provided that the employee has agreed to the longer working time which, under the terms of the compromise, could be up to a limit of 60 or 65 hours a week, in accordance with the established conditions.
Today's vote on the compromise position of the Council follows a five-year effort of the Member States to achieve a compromise.
It is essential for the directive to be discussed again calmly with the Council.
On the one hand, we must allow flexibility in working time agreements, especially for employees of small- and medium-sized companies, and we must also protect Sunday as a day of rest.
On behalf of the Fine Gael members of the PPE-DE Group, we supported Amendment 9 and we abstained on the votes on the opt-out because Ireland does not use the opt-out, nor does it intend to.
On the issue of Sundays and a day of rest, I do hanker back to those lovely days and therefore supported the idea, mainly to raise the debate.
I would like to amend my vote on Amendments 13 and 14 - it should have been a minus not a plus.
This is not a question of slave labour; even if someone wanted to, they could only work a maximum of 60-65 hours a week.
As regards on-call time, in the end, I voted for the ninth amendment, since it was clear that we were going for reconciliation, notably because this can be settled at national level on the basis of the amendment. (NL) Mr President, as far as I am concerned, I have, for a long time, held the view that Europe should not be about boring uniformity, and in this Parliament too, we should start learning to accept that not everything should be regulated at European level and that there are a raft of local and national rules and customs that we would do well to respect, not least those concerning the protection of employees and legislation covering health and safety at work and working hours.
What is important, as far as I am concerned, is that it is the Member States that should be able to decide, and that labour law, in all its facets, should, in my view, remain an exclusive preserve of the Member States.
Mr President, the author of this report, Alejandro Cercas, is as engaging and intelligent a socialist as you could ask to meet, and there is a measure of reason in his assertion that there is an asymmetry caused by some derogations and opt-outs.
If I want to work for you, Mr President, and you want to employ me and both of us are satisfied with the terms of our contracts, then neither our government nor the European Union should have the right to come between us and declare that contract illegal.
Still, I am a souverainiste, and if other countries want to impose these restrictions on their own people, who are also their voters, that is for them to decide.
Most of them are middle class intellectuals and the rest have forgotten where they came from.
It has to do with the fact that my voting machine malfunctioned in the vote on amendment motions 34 and 35.
There is thus a possibility that somebody who does not have a licence, or who has failed a driving test or lost a licence, can obtain a licence through this rather dubious route.
I have raised this matter with the Commission and Council.
It needs action at EU level.
Written explanations of vote: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted in favour of the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the text of which was coordinated by Mr Turmes.
As far as biofuels are concerned, I hope that the Commission will be able to enforce the sustainability criteria in Europe and in the rest of the world, while encouraging international trade in the cleanest and most competitive biofuels.
One of the European Union's objectives, in terms of renewable energy, is the regeneration of towns in Central and Eastern Europe by increasing their energy efficiency.
Moreover, institutions and companies can receive a large amount of funding from the EU budget for this purpose.
For example, over EUR 720 million have been earmarked for the Intelligent Energy programme, which promotes energy diversification and the use of renewable energy.
in writing. - (PT) Use of renewable energies in transport is one of the most effective tools by which the EU can reduce its dependence on oil.
We also know that controlling energy consumption in Europe and using energy from renewable sources constitute important parts of the package of measures needed to combat climate change.
I believe that the most important point in this report is maintaining the final binding target of a 20% share of renewable energies by 2020, including the minimum target of a 10% share of renewable energies in transport.
For Portugal, including wave energy in the definition of energy from renewable sources offers an opportunity to use our energy potential to achieve the targets.
The fact that the report contemplates an incentive for second generation biofuels not only makes the document credible, but also guarantees sustainability in the use of renewable energies in the transport sector.
To obtain an energy model that supports renewable energies, I regard it as fundamental that the document encourages strategic cooperation mechanisms between the Member States.
This report is essential in itself and as part of an agreement (climate and energy package).
At the same time as guaranteeing the preservation of environmental integrity, the agreement will allow the 20/20/20 targets to be met in 2020.
These targets set for the Member States are ambitious, but feasible.
As part of the wide ranging Climate and Energy Package, renewable energy will provide the source of 20% of energy (including electricity, heat and transport) by 2020.
This, combined with the other measures included in the Climate and Energy Package, provides a good basis for combating climate change, providing impetus for investment in renewable energy sources and sourcing, a reemphasised direction for research and development and a means towards achieving energy security and independence.
The binding targets will function across each Member State to ensure that the agreed targets are met on an EU level.
in writing. - (PT) This issue forms part of the 'climate and energy package'.
The target is for the EU to increase to 20% the share of renewable energies in the energy we consume by 2020.
National overall targets are set for each Member State and a target of a 10% share of renewable energies in the transport sector by that same date is also set.
According to information published, the target for Portugal in terms of its share of energy from renewable sources as part of overall energy consumption in 2020 is set at 31%, bearing in mind our starting point (in 2005, this share in Portugal was already 20.5%) and the national potential for renewable energies.
The target of a 10% share for renewable energies in transport is, on the other hand, the same as that set for all the Member States.
However, the fact is that, although we voted in favour in the final vote, we have serious doubts about the achievement of these targets, given that it is deceptive to start from the principle that we fully understand the extent of exploitable renewable resources or that we have the technologies to use them.
in writing. - I welcome the Turmes report on energy produced from renewable sources, yet I realise that to reach the target will be difficult.
In my own region, the South West of England, our major contribution to achieving this target will be some version of the Severn Tidal Barrage.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the report on the climate action and renewable energy package, as it comprises various directives that are all in line with the EU's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, and even by 30% if an international agreement is reached.
It is the result of long negotiations and of a compromise between the representatives of Parliament and the Council - that is, the 27 Member States.
The Directive relating to the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) updates the existing ETS and stipulates that industries must now buy the emission allowances, which were previously free, at auction.
There are derogations in the form of transitional periods for Eastern European Member States, who must purchase allowances for just 30% of their emissions to begin with.
In addition, incentives for energy efficiency are laid down as well as, albeit with no purpose specification, an obligation on the part of Member States to invest at least half of the revenues in developing countries and new technologies.
I welcome the successful balancing act between taking account of those industries which face difficult tasks and ambitious environmental policy.
A further directive governs effort sharing with regard to the emissions not covered by the ETS.
This includes, in particular, heating and air-conditioning systems and many economic sectors (transport, small industrial installations, the services sector and agriculture) that are not covered by the ETS, but which still make a significant contribution to greenhouse gas emissions.
In addition, long-term targets are to be introduced in this field, including a 35% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2035 and a 60-80% reduction by 2050.
The Directive on the capture and geological storage of carbon dioxide (Carbon Capture and Storage, CCS) enables CO2 to be separated from waste gases and then stored underground; 12 CCS power stations are to be financed by 2015.
I do recognise CCS as a key transitional technology, but particular importance should be attached to storage safety.
I welcome the compromise reached between the European institutions, as it is often easy to criticise but a challenge to reach a compromise.
The rules agreed are the successful result of negotiations between countries who may be very different in economic terms but who still pursue a common goal.
The fact that the new Member States, in particular, cannot meet all the targets in this short space of time without risking the disintegration of entire branches of economic activity and being faced with social disaster should not be neglected when taking an overall view of the European objectives.
I see the climate action and renewable energy package as not just an important step but even a great leap, which will counteract the advancing climate change and reinforce Europe's pre-eminence on the way to an efficient energy policy.
Europe has managed to speak with one voice, which will make it possible to intensify our demands at international level, too.
A major challenge in this regard is to prevent environmental dumping at international level.
This is an aspect that should be taken into consideration when preparing the successor agreement to the Kyoto Protocol at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in December 2009, where the negotiators will include the USA, China and India.
The climate action and renewable energy package has created a solid basis for reaching a new international agreement.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Turmes report on renewable energy.
It is essential that Europe takes the lead in promoting renewable energy - and I envisage an independent Scotland being at the very heart of global development of renewable technologies.
in writing. - I voted for this proposal because I believe it sends an important signal about the need for a transformation of energy production to non-fossil and less polluting fuels within the EU and beyond.
Energy efficiency must also now be included in the Renewables Action Plans of the Member States.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which strengthens our obligations for renewables targets, presenting a major opportunity to boost indigenous sources of energy in the EU, tackle climate change, enhance security of supply and promote competitiveness, growth and jobs.
I supported this report because it has a review clause assessing by 2014 the impacts of increased use of renewable transport fuels which ensures that by reducing our CO2 emissions, we are not having an adverse effect on food prices or land use.
The report states a 5% target for renewable transport fuels by 2015, with a sub-target of 20% to promote the use of electric cars.
in writing. - This report represents a revolution in the way we produce energy in the EU.
The target of 20% renewable energy by 2020 is extremely ambitious but necessary if we are to win the fight against climate change.
The 10% target for road transport fuels is a vital part of this package and of the efforts to achieve the EU's goal of a low carbon economy.
A strict set of social criteria has also been included which will safeguard people in the developing world who could otherwise have been adversely affected by the rapid development in biofuel production.
The proposal for a directive is one of the most important components in the climate change package, which sets a mandatory target of 20% for the share of energy from renewable resources as part of the EU's total energy consumption by 2020.
The European Parliament has played an important role in setting out the sustainability criteria for biofuels and the social criteria which are vitally important to the European Union's citizens in the current economic crisis.
The European Union will show, once again, that it is the leading promoter of wind, solar and hydroelectric energy, as well as of energy from other alternative sources.
in writing. - (FR) We have had the opportunity to state several times here that the simple aim of reducing the European Union's dependence on gas or oil imports could, in itself, justify the promotion of renewable energy sources.
in writing. - (NL) It is with much conviction that I have voted in favour of the compromise achieved in respect of renewable energy sources.
Thanks to his efforts, and indeed those of the whole of Parliament, a strong legislative framework will be put in place which will ensure that the total share of renewable energy will be no less than 20% by 2020.
In the Turmes report, the sustainability criteria have been clearly tightened up, and there is also a reference to social criteria within the framework of the International Labour Organisation.
in writing. - The report is an important step in forcing Member States to meet their renewable targets.
in writing. - (EL) The European Parliament and the Council, in an effort to improve and extend the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system and achieve the objective of reducing emissions in the EU by 20% by 2020, propose amending Directive 2003/87/ΕC.
On 17 December 2008, plenary voted in favour of compromise amendments tabled by the shadow rapporteurs of the ΡPΕ-DΕ, PSE, GUE/NGL, ALDE, UEN and Verts/ALE Groups.
Although we voted in favour of these amendments, which set higher targets on reductions in greenhouse gas emissions (a measure which was a basic objective of the GUE/NGL Group), we should like to express our opposition to the philosophy of greenhouse gas emission allowance trading.
We dare to say that this particular directive achieves nothing other than a slight reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and is a measure which favours developed countries, to the detriment of less developed and developing countries.
We have achieved almost half of this already by means of our enlargement to the east, where emissions are lower in absolute terms, and there remains the target of a 12% reduction below 1990 levels.
The fact that the EU Member States are engaging in such horse-trading does not bode well for a global agreement.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have decided to vote in favour of this report on reforming the emission allowance trading system although we believe, in principle, that the aims of the climate package, as such, are too low.
The EU will need to do more to cope with the challenge posed by climate change.
We also believe that auctioning of emissions allowances should have been more extensive and that the use of the CDM should have been restricted further.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the review of the Emissions Trading Scheme and the compromise reached between the objectives of combating climate change and improving the competitiveness of European industries and protecting jobs.
I would like to point out that the codecision procedure, which has been fast-tracked in the interests of achieving agreement at first reading, has not fully respected democratic transparency, and Parliament has found itself voting on a sort of fait accompli.
Despite this, I am very pleased with Mrs Doyle's proposal because of the flexibility given to sectors at risk of carbon leakage.
The Council's commitment to reduce, by 2020, the total Community greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% in comparison with 1990 levels, or even by 30% if other developed countries commit themselves to similar reductions, is an ill-judged move which will have a negative impact on industry and consumers in Europe, including in Poland.
The only firm commitment the European Union has made is to reduce its emissions by 20% by 2020, in comparison with 1990.
If we take into account the fact that two thirds of this reduction can be achieved through carbon compensation mechanisms, that is to say by purchasing carbon credits on the international market, the EU has committed to achieving a reduction of only 4% on its territory.
The compromise stipulates that some of this money could go to supporting developing countries, for European countries that so wish.
It is a very weak commitment for an issue that is nevertheless crucial in international negotiations.
They allow the automotive industry to not take measures until at least 2019.
They exempt undertakings affected by international competition from regulations on energy generation and much more besides.
We need coal in our energy mix in order to ensure security of supply for our citizens, and we want to enable the climate-friendly use of coal by means of CCS technology in future.
Firstly, the issue of emission allowances and their subsequent trading are debatable and must be opposed because their impact on the real economy is largely unknown.
This is because there is still a great deal of doubt about a range of technical solutions and because the use of these technical solutions is also dependent on the development of the financial situation in the various sectors involved (air transport, automotive industry, thermal power generation, cement industry, heavy chemicals, petrochemicals and a growing number of other energy-intensive sectors).
Secondly, the anticipated beneficiaries will be a few high-technology industrial sectors and some (just a few) financial operators.
One EU-wide plan is always much better than 27 national plans.
in writing. - The proposed Directive on the revision of the EU Emission Trading System is an improvement on the current system and is important at a global level.
I was accordingly able to support Mrs Doyle's report.
I will take this opportunity to thank the honourable Members for the recent vote in which the European Parliament clearly showed their support for my 'benchmark' model.
The Commission's original proposal and the position adopted by the Committee on the Environment on emissions trading both lacked equilibrium, as they put European production in a position that made it hard to compete in global markets without any special climatic benefit.
In any case, it is pointless talking about free emission allowances, because the benchmarks - the yardsticks - are ambitious.
The complaint made by the environmental lobby that the package has been watered down frankly seems unreasonable to me, when we consider that targets are being observed and industrial sectors have a declining emissions ceiling.
But the main importance of the revised scheme is that it provides the architecture for an important part of the post-Kyoto agreement.
in writing. - I support this proposal which balances ambitious climate change goals with the need to strengthen the competitiveness of European industry and to protect jobs.
Allowances and auctioning of emission credits will occur for power plants until 2013 when all new power plants will have entirely auctioned allowances.
I voted in favour of this report because it makes auctioning the general allocation principle, limits the amount of CDM/JI project credits that an installation can purchase to offset its emissions and still protects companies against carbon leakage.
in writing. - I am supporting this report, as I believe that the environmental integrity of the ETS has been maintained and is a considerable improvement on the current system, as the polluter in future will pay for the right to emit through the auctioning of permits.
The objective of reducing emissions from Europe's power stations and heavy industry by at least 20% by 2020 is maintained, and this will automatically rise to a 30% reduction if there is an international agreement at the UN climate talks in Copenhagen in December 2009.
I also believe that a balance has been achieved between jobs and the environment, which is vitally important in an economic downturn.
I wish to give the following explanation of vote on behalf of the Christian Social Union of Bavaria (CSU) delegation in the European Parliament.
The EU has set itself ambitious climate-protection targets.
These include a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020.
In addition, a level playing field must be created within the EU.
The directive put to the vote today concerning the EU Emissions Trading Scheme meets none of these requirements.
Certain industries can derogate from the auctioning of CO2 allowances.
If an international agreement cannot be reached in Copenhagen in 2009, the auctioning of CO2 allowances will create an additional burden on many industries that their non-EU competitors lack. 4.
Most Eastern European Member States have obtained derogations from the auctioning of their CO2 allowances to the energy sector.
The attempt by the EU to lead global efforts against climate change has been watered down under pressure from the industrial lobby and conservative governments.
The famous '20/2020' is a necessary first step, but the targets it sets are not ambitious enough.
We share the concern of environmental NGOs and will continue to demand more ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, for essential support for energy generation from renewable sources and for the binding long-term plan for further reductions in emissions after Copenhagen.
I have numerous reservations about the compromise from a content point of view, too.
The majority in the European Parliament bears a share of the responsibility - including towards future generations - for the entry into force of this compromise.
A policy such as this harms not only the economy but also, in particular, the reputation of the EU.
in writing. - The objective of cutting emissions from Europe's power stations and heavy industry by at least 20% by 2020, and for this to increase to 30% if there is an international agreement at the UN climate talks in Copenhagen in December 2009, should be welcomed.
in writing. - (DE) I fully support the efforts to reduce the contribution to climate change that is probably made by human beings.
Legislating in a great hurry is unacceptable and undemocratic.
The extremely fast legislative procedure and the fact that the Council documents were presented only a few days ago meant that, in my opinion, a professional examination of the documents, and thus proper legislation, was impossible.
This is all the more unacceptable considering that this legislation imposes a high financial burden on the European public.
According to several studies, the climate action and renewable energy package costs approximately EUR 70 to 100 billion, and there is the threat of whole industries moving to other parts of the world.
Legislative proposals as important as this must evolve in the course of a well-ordered procedure with several readings.
in writing. - (SV) The overhaul of emissions trading is a step forward compared with the current rules.
The EU is therefore committed to adjusting the climate target from a 20% to a 30% reduction by 2020 in the event of a successful climate agreement in Copenhagen next year.
It also calls on Member States to use their auctioning revenues for climate protection measures in Europe and elsewhere.
It also reduces the revenue that is essential if the EU is to be able to help developing countries to invest in 'green technology', adapt to climate change and protect tropical forests.
At the same time, if up to half of the emissions reductions can be made by means of reductions in third countries, the ETS will have limited effect even during the period leading up to 2020.
Despite its shortcomings, it would have been unthinkable to vote 'no'.
I do not want to risk jeopardising the whole directive, which contains many positive aspects compared with the current situation.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have decided to vote against this compromise on the division of responsibility, as we believe that it is wholly unacceptable that not even half of the EU's emissions reductions need to be made within the EU.
We believe that this technology is vital for employment and welfare in Europe.
in writing. - This report is concerned with the introduction of differentiated targets across the EU27 for the period 2013-2020 for greenhouse gas reductions in economic sectors outside the EU emissions trading scheme.
in writing. - (PT) We agree with the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and with the establishment of a system for that purpose.
However, we have very serious doubts about the system proposed which, although stating that it is based on the 'principle of solidarity between Member States and the need for sustainable economic growth', then insists that only the countries should pay the bill, through their national budgets - and not through the Community budget - according to the different conditions of development in which they find themselves.
In allowing the transfer of emissions between Member States through 'trading' or by using 'market intermediaries', mechanisms are established which will increase the existing disparities in economic power between Member States, to the benefit of the major powers.
Furthermore, a significant part of the effort will be outsourced to third countries, thereby increasing international pressure on least developed countries to yield part of their sovereignty in exchange for (pseudo-) aid, by opening up their economies to investments from Community undertakings.
in writing. - (PT) Bearing in mind the EU's action against climate change in a future international agreement to replace the Kyoto Protocol, it is vital that the EU gives a clear signal to the world and undertakes to effectively reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.
The Commission proposal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 10% by 2020, in relation to 2005 levels, for sectors not covered by the EU's emission allowance trading system, is therefore extremely important.
The compromise reached between the European Parliament and the Council, although not ideal (for example, since it allows excessive use of flexibility mechanisms), is generally balanced in my opinion, and that is why I voted for this report.
in writing. - I voted against the Hassi report.
There is now a reference to a 30% binding target for greenhouse gas reductions in the legislative text: the science says this is the minimum necessary by 2020.
But for me, it was impossible to vote for the 80% CDM which Member States may use in third countries, rather than focussing on reductions within their own borders.
We have let our national governments off lightly and are once again putting the burden on third countries to do our work.
in writing. - (EL) The PASOK Group supports, inter alia, the content of Amendment 44 and will vote against the separate nominal Amendment 7, in order to ensure that at least 50% of emission reductions are achieved from action within the EU.
in writing. - I support this report which sets out binding targets for member states to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in areas of the economy not covered by the ETS system, which represents real progress for a comprehensive system.
The 10% target for non-ETS sectors is divided between Member States based on GDP/capita.
This will allow a fair distribution of effort and ensure poorer countries can continue their accelerated growth.
I support this report which introduced a long-term target of at least 50% overall emission reductions by 2035, and 60% by 2050, compared to 1990 levels, because it tackles both long- and short-term objectives in concordance with the Clean Air Targets.
The report includes an additional 'external emission reduction commitment' which will provide financial support for developing countries to reduce their emissions, so that no country is left behind and developing countries receive the financial support that they need in order for universal action on climate change to be most effective.
I have supported from the very outset the proposal to switch automatically from a target of 20% to 30% in the event of signing an international agreement.
However, last week's negotiations have resulted in reaching a compromise whereby the method for switching to this level must be based on a new procedure.
This decision was made as a precautionary measure to take into account the possibility of a rise in the price of carbon in the future.
In order to retain its credibility in relation to the aid it is granting to developing countries, the European Union must ensure that the financing of CDM projects will maintain sustainable development of these countries and that part of the revenue resulting from auctioning emission credits is used to support them.
in writing. - (NL) Whilst I have voted against the compromise achieved, this does not in any way detract from my appreciation for the work done by Mrs Hassi in this respect.
However, as the agreement makes it possible for nearly 80% of all efforts to be made in third countries, I find it unacceptable.
It is economically absurd to invest many millions of euros abroad via the Clean Development Mechanism if your own country still needs to make considerable efforts to insulate buildings properly or design a transport policy that focuses on low-carbon mobility.
This is a form of neo-colonialism, compromising, as it does, the position of those third countries in that they will need to make additional and more expensive efforts at a later stage.
in writing. - (SV) I have chosen to abstain from the vote on the effort-sharing directive.
The main reason for this is that it sends out the wrong signals to the rest of the world if the EU can make around 70% of its emissions reductions up to 2020 in countries outside the EU.
Greater efforts are needed to help developing countries to invest in low-carbon technology.
This support, however, should not be primarily an alternative to reductions on home soil, but rather should be given in addition to such reductions.
Industry needs strong incentives to make the necessary adaptations with regard to energy, transport, construction, industrial production and so on.
The proposal for the non-trading sectors is far too weak in these respects.
Above all, it is the first piece of legislation in the world to set binding reductions for all sectors that are not included in the emissions trading scheme.
in writing. - (PT) The 'climate and energy package' also includes a proposal for a directive on carbon capture and storage.
The Commission proposes that all new power plants should, when built, be capable of being equipped with carbon capture facilities.
The rapporteur considers that the priority must, however, be to use it to deal with the problem of coal, which is responsible for 24% of CO2 emissions in Europe.
Although we were doubtful about certain amendments, which are technically controversial, we voted in favour of the European Parliament's position.
However, we regard this position as excessively regulatory, particularly with regard to the independence of Member States, especially in an area in which scientific and technical knowledge is still quite limited.
in writing. - (PT) As a means of mitigating climate change in the EU, carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology is very promising.
However, it should not be used as a reason to relax and reduce the effort invested to make European electricity generation cleaner.
The Davies report is very balanced and the compromise reached between the European Parliament and the Council fully meets the needs of the EU.
The implementation of 12 demonstration projects is particularly important.
Their medium-term results will help the EU to introduce this technology in a more economically and environmentally effective manner.
Lastly, given the many doubts that still exist, particularly the uncertainty as regards the existence of adequate storage sites in all the Member States, I regard as very positive the possibility of reviewing the issue of exporting CO2 to third countries (Article 35a(2)) and also not forcing economic operators to apply CCS technology (Article 32).
CCS is an emerging technology and further research is essential for an evaluation of its potential in combating global warming.
The proposed directive provides a firm legal basis upon which the technology can be built and I consider that Scotland has an important role to play in the development of this sector.
in writing. - (DE) The promotion of new technologies to store the carbon dioxide implicated in climate change must not be at the expense of well-established technologies that have been proven to work.
in writing.- The inclusion in this report of a EUR 9 billion fund to clean up coal-fired power stations through the development of carbon capture and storage (CCS) will offer exciting opportunities for the Welsh coal industry.
Promoting the technologies used for the capture and geological storage of carbon dioxide will help to diversify efficient energy and support the battle against climate change.
In order to achieve a 50% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2050, the use of energy from renewable sources is not sufficient to attain this target without also considering CCS projects.
This will present a challenge to the European Union, bearing in mind the increased costs from the capital investment in capture and storage equipment, which will, however, fall as this equipment will be used on a large scale.
For this reason, these demonstration projects are not mandatory as they depend to a large extent on the price of carbon and the technology.
However, the EU has taken an important step towards finding alternative solutions which will help reduce the level of greenhouse gases.
Indeed, the implementation of these future projects will encourage other countries outside the EU as well to use these technologies.
The report relates to inland waterway vessels, but I believe that this mode of transportation cannot be disassociated from the larger picture of transport by sea.
We must not overload industry in relation to shipping and inland waterway boats and barges as the end result may turn out to be the opposite of our intentions.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of Dorette Corbey's report on monitoring and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from road transport and inland waterways as I consider that improving air quality and reducing greenhouse gas emissions are two vital aspects in tackling climate change and reducing health risks.
I believe that the adoption of this directive is very important and will help to reduce CO2 in the transport sector, particularly by stimulating the development of clean technologies and setting specific requirements for carbon emissions deriving from the production process.
in writing. - (PT) This report is very important because, in one document, it aims firstly to improve air quality by reducing air pollution, in particular, emissions of highly toxic and polluting substances, and, secondly, to help combat climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions produced by fuels used in the transport sector.
I am satisfied with the agreement reached between Parliament and the Council and would highlight the fact that sustainability is guaranteed in the production and use of biofuels, which is vital in terms of the directive's viability.
The Directive on fuel quality will become a pivotal tool in the fight against climate change.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Corbey report.
The revised directive provides for the continued use of MMT, in recognition of the scientific conclusions reached by major trading partners, including the United States and Canada.
Importantly, the revised directive also requires the EU to conduct a scientific examination.
in writing. - (DE) In our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we are subsidising the purchase of tropical biofuels.
The whole system is half-baked, which is why I abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. - (SV) We are critical of the proposal for emission performance standards for passenger cars.
We would have liked to have seen a more ambitious proposal with harsher fines, a shorter phase-in time and a more clearly laid down long-term goal.
However, we have chosen to vote in favour of the proposal as a whole as we believe that to reject it would result in the even later introduction of environmental regulations for the car industry.
With regard to the Sacconi report on emission performance standards for new passenger cars, I voted against the presented proposal in order to express publicly my regret that we have not reached an agreement that is more favourable to the environment.
Nonetheless, I would like the positive vote that was expressed by the majority of Members to enable us to make an initial series of responses quickly, then, over the coming years, guide us towards decisions that reconcile the needs of our planet and of our economy, particularly taking account of the situation in the automotive industry.
The compromise, as proposed, does not make a satisfactory response.
On the contrary, we need strict emissions standards in the long and short term, and we need these standards to be unchangeable.
Moreover, the specific target to reduce emissions by producers will penalise precisely those who are already the most virtuous.
The penalty system in case of failure to meet with these targets is unfavourable to those who have developed more environmentally-friendly vehicles.
Whereas it should, in fact, have recognised and supported the efforts of the most virtuous.
Bearing in mind that road transport is responsible for 12% of all carbon dioxide emissions in the European Union, I consider that this regulation, despite not forming part of the 'climate and energy package', is vital to ensure that the EU meets the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020.
I congratulate the rapporteur on the decisive role that he played in negotiations with the Council and the European Commission.
These have culminated in a strong and balanced agreement which will benefit the automotive industry and consumers and will, in particular, protect the environment.
in writing. - (FR) I abstained from voting on the 'CO2 from passenger cars' report, since I feel that it does not take sufficient account of the impact the vehicle fleet has on climate change.
in writing. - (PT) The road transport sector is the second highest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the EU and, more importantly, is a sector in which emissions are continuing to increase.
The proposal for a regulation adheres to the spirit and targets of the EU, especially as regards reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020.
The fact that the proposal provides for a distribution of effort, with each manufacturer being set a specific target, is exemplary, in my opinion.
Overall, and bearing in mind the current situation, the agreement reached is positive for the EU.
In terms of achieving the targets that the European Union has set itself in order to combat climate change, this regulation will certainly help.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Sacconi report on CO2 emissions from new cars.
in writing. - (EL) The PASOK Group supports, inter alia, the content of Amendment 50, in order to ensure that the long-term objective of 95 grams of CO2/km will be legally binding from 2020.
It will vote against the separate nominal Amendment 2, as the target of reducing emissions from passenger cars needs to be achieved directly, for the benefit of public health and the environment.
On the one hand, it is right to urge the automobile industry to make CO2 reductions, which is why we voted in favour of the proposal.
The proposed means for achieving the reductions do not make equal demands on all European manufacturers, but particularly affect manufacturers of large vehicles who are also innovators.
This hits German manufacturers harder than other manufacturers in the EU. 2.
The fines have been laid down arbitrarily, particularly in phase 4.
This will lead to two different price levels for CO2: the market price used on the stock market and a price laid down arbitrarily for the automobile industry.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this regulation which is a key part of the EU's climate change package and which sets out, for the first time, legal requirements for manufacturers to reduce emissions of CO2 from all cars sold in the EU (regardless of where they are manufactured).
The average new car fleet should achieve CO2 emissions of 120 g CO2/km from 2012.
This target is broken down to 130 g CO2/km by means of improvements in motor technology and the additional 10 g should come from 'eco-innovations' such as new air conditioning designs.
in writing. - Carbon from transport constitutes 21% of our carbon emissions.
By setting high standards for Europe's potential 500 million customers, we shall also be setting global standards for the world to follow.
The regulation adopted today will subject the German and, in particular, the Bavarian automobile industry additionally to a tough endurance test that will demand strenuous efforts from it.
Initially, in 2012, just 65% of new cars licensed in the EU are required to meet the agreed target of an average upper limit of 120 grams of CO2 per kilometre.
By 2015, all new cars are to meet the target.
However, we regret that the report sends the wrong message with its fines for exceeding the target values, as exceeding them by 4 grams or more incurs a penalty of EUR 95 per gram.
I felt that the majority of the Commission's text was fair and realistic, although one very important aspect was missing, that is, including a medium-term to long-term objective in the legislation.
We have a duty to protect our world for future generations and in order to do so we must be ready to make difficult decisions.
And these 'green' objectives are not unrealistic.
The European Parliament and Council have agreed that by 2020, the new car fleet's average level of emissions must not exceed 95 g of CO2/km.
By 2014, 80% of the car fleet will conform to the standards, while the penalty for every gram above the limit will be EUR 95 after 2019.
The final compromise ensures a balance between the needs of consumers, environmental protection and a sustainable industrial policy.
in writing. - (NL) I have voted against the compromise in the Sacconi report on CO2 emissions from cars.
This dossier has been in the making for more than 10 years.
A standard of 95 g of CO2 emission/km has been laid down to apply by 1 January 2020.
In 1996, industry agreed a maximum emission of 140 g by 2008.
The road transport sector is responsible for around 70% of the greenhouse gas emissions produced by the transport sector in general.
It is therefore vital that the emission performance standards for new passenger cars are improved.
The compromise which has been reached sets ambitious targets for car manufacturers, but also gives them the period of time necessary to adapt their production lines to the new requirements.
Preserving jobs and creating the prerequisites for economic development are absolutely necessary, especially in the current economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour despite having strong reservations.
On the one hand, it is right to urge the automobile industry to make CO2 reductions.
On the other, we wish to express strong reservations (see point 3, in particular). 1.
The proposal does not make equal demands on all European manufacturers, but particularly affects manufacturers of large vehicles, who are also innovators.
This concerns German manufacturers, in particular. 2.
Fines have been laid down arbitrarily, particularly in phase 4.
This will lead to two different price levels for CO2: the market price used on the stock market and a price laid down arbitrarily for the automobile industry.
in writing. - I voted to support the legislation as amended, both on this proposal to reduce emissions of CO2 from cars and on the entire climate change package.
This is an important step to ensure that Europe meets its targets to cut emissions by 20% by 2020 and will send a strong message to the rest of the world ahead of next year's talks in Copenhagen that Europe means business.
We already have the technology to help us meet these targets and there can be no better example of this than the cutting-edge work being carried out at Loughborough University, in my own constituency, which is world-renowned for its development of green technologies and has recently unveiled a new hydrogen refuelling station, one of only two in the UK.
in writing. - Sinn Féin attaches the highest priority to the fight against climate change.
Therefore, we support measures at local, national, EU and at global level through the UN climate talks to set the necessary binding targets for CO2 reductions.
On the Davies report on CCS and without prejudice to our clear preference for renewable energy, we voted in favour of this report, as it provides important measures on safety, financial security and liability.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the 'climate and energy package', which includes the Doyle, Hassi, Turmes and Davies reports, as I consider that the agreement reached between the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission is a balanced agreement which reconciles protection of the environment with the legitimate interests of industry.
It was important to reach an agreement at first reading, in other words, in time for the European Union to submit a credible proposal at the Copenhagen Conference in 2009, in order to achieve an international agreement and continue our lead in the fight against climate change.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the climate change package because I believe that the world is at a crucial juncture.
But only through working together can Member States have an effect.
No other country or group of countries has set a legally binding process with the scope and potential of this package.
in writing. - (DA) The Danish Social Democrats have voted in favour of the majority of the EU climate package because, even though not all of the methods used are as we would have wished, it establishes an ambitious target for the reduction of CO2 emissions of either 20% or 30%, depending on whether or not a global agreement is entered into.
The Social Democrats voted against the proposal on effort sharing (that is to say the reduction in, for example, agriculture, transport, etc.).
The reason for this is that it is so easy to purchase credits in developing countries that the EU will be able to fulfil up to 60% to 70% of its reduction obligation by purchasing reductions in the world's poorest countries.
The Social Democrats voted against the proposal on CO2 emissions from cars.
Contrary to what the European Commission had proposed and directly counter to the results of the vote in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, the proposal would delay the requirement for industry to emit not more than 120 g CO2/km from 2012 by a further three years.
I voted in favour of the four directives on the energy and climate change package because it was important for the EU to adopt these texts before 2009 and the international negotiations.
I voted YES: because the 3x20 targets have been confirmed (20% reduction of greenhouses gases, 20% reduction of energy consumed, 20% renewable energy) and an increase to a 30% reduction of greenhouse gases in the event of a more ambitious international agreement; because it is vital since the texts proposed by the Council do not go as far as the Commission's proposals and there is a risk of not achieving the stated targets - staggering over time, a large number of derogations, the possibility of financing gas reductions from outside the EU, which delays the essential decarbonisation of our industries, economies and means of development; as a precaution, because if the targets are not met on the way, Parliament will have to impose new policies; because it is a first step.
Likewise, those industries that emit high levels of CO2 during their production process need to receive support for research and innovation, in order to become more competitive, rather than be subject to rules that penalise production, thereby making it unviable in Europe.
This approach must be used to encourage the use of those energies which emit less CO2.
The common position on working time that the Council put to the vote by Parliament was a real step backwards for workers' rights and a genuine threat to our European social model.
Gathering a strong majority behind him, the socialist rapporteur, Mr Cercas, whom I supported with my vote, has managed to bring down this conservative and reactionary vision of the world of work, which is worthy of the 19th century.
We have also obtained guarantees with regard to compensatory rest time and the reconciling of family and professional life.
I agree with the basic idea of creating a European framework for regulations on the organisation of working time.
It is right, in this field, to encourage greater involvement in decision making for social partners and, in particular, for the reformist trade unions throughout Europe that are trying to maintain a commitment not only to the protection of workers' rights, but also to modernisation and growth.
Active and inactive time while on duty is an important issue for many professions, especially doctors.
in writing. - UKIP recognises the value of certain elements of the Council's position in preserving the right of Britons to work, and we have voted against other amendments in this report which specifically undermine those elements.
However, the Council's position contains many other elements which UKIP cannot agree with and cannot vote for.
We therefore abstain from voting on Amendment 30.
The maximum working time in Europe will remain at 48 hours, which will allow countries that have a regime that is more favourable to workers not to change anything (such as France, which has 35 hours).
The Council wanted to increase this limit to 65 hours.
On-call time for medical staff will continue to be counted as working time.
This vote, having received a large majority, will allow 27 MEPs to assert their position loud and clear to the 27 Ministers in the Conciliation Committee.
Against the current backdrop of crisis and social insecurity for workers, today the Council puts to the vote in Parliament a common position that poses a genuine threat to the foundations of the European social model, by weakening working time standards.
Implementing a clause to derogate from the weekly limit of 48 hours and not calculating on-call time as working time risks creating a two-speed social Europe, divided between workers who can benefit from social protection in their Member States and others who cannot refuse to accept diminished social rights.
Contrary to the discussion of the Commission and certain States of the Council of the European Union, which presents the free choice to opt-out as progress, I chose to support the amendments of the rapporteur, Mr Cercas, which are the expression of Parliament's position at first reading in 2004.
These amendments require that the opt-out clause be repealed 36 months after the directive enters into force, that on-call time be calculated as working time (recognised by the CJEC), as well as guarantees with regard to compensatory rest time and the reconciling of family and professional life.
The massive demonstration by European unions yesterday in Strasbourg showed their commitment to better protection for workers.
Several aspects of this report caught my attention and should be defended, including, in particular, the end of the derogation to weekly working time, which is currently set at 48 hours in the European Union.
The Cercas report, with the social advances it contains, moves in the right direction by removing the overly liberal measures applied in some Member States, which would like to see them extended throughout the European Union.
in writing. - (SV) After four years of trying to change the Working Time Directive, the Council of Ministers succeeded in agreeing on a common position last summer.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of rejecting the Council common position as I consider that it does not respect the legitimate rights of workers.
The European Parliament adopted a clear and meaningful position by rejecting the possibility of a 65-hour working week.
in writing. - (PT) Today's defeat suffered by the Council at the hands of the European Parliament is an important victory in the workers' struggle.
I would particularly highlight the attempts to extend the average working week to 60 and 65 hours, to create the concept of 'inactive working time', which would not therefore be regarded as working time, and to attack the trade union movement.
However, it can open new negotiations with Parliament, in contrast to what would have happened if the motion to reject the Council common position, tabled and defended by our Group, had been adopted.
We will remain firm in our position of rejection and we call on workers and their trade unions to be vigilant.
in writing. - I voted to keep the opt-out as my priority is, first and foremost, to protect West Midlands jobs and ensure that my region retains a competitive edge.
In my experience, restricting peoples' overtime only favours those that can afford to weather the storm and it is important that we give people the means to support their families.
There are safeguards in place in the common position to ensure that workers are not being exploited.
in writing. - (FR) The Commission's proposal for a directive is undoubtedly typical of what the Europe of Brussels calls flexibility and adaptability, and dares to describe as social: opt-out (which is to say, the option to exceed standards) for States or individuals, a limit of 78 working hours per week, not counting on-call time as working time, calculating time per contract and not per person, and so on.
That is why we voted in favour of the amendments of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, but also in favour of some of those of our political opponents, because they seemed to us to be a step in the right direction, namely in favour of workers.
in writing. - (PL) The debate on amendments to the Working Time Directive has aroused interest in many areas, especially in trade unions and employers' organisations.
More specifically, this move might have unforeseen consequences for the continued provision of medical services, including in Poland.
At this point, I would like to stress that I support the 48 hour limit on working time, with the option of extending it only with the consent of the worker.
I would like to stress that the Directive currently in force permits a 78 hour working week, a solution that benefits no one.
The compromise proposed by the Council would have guaranteed a balanced approach, by respecting different labour market models, as well as labour rights.
in writing. - I believe it is essential that workers have the free voluntary option of choosing the hours they work.
The common position attempts to achieve this balance, continuing to permit individuals to opt out of the 48 hour (on average) maximum weekly working limit contained in the Directive introducing new safeguards, to prevent the exploitation of individuals.
These include a prohibition on signing the opt-out at the same time as signing an employment contract, a 'cooling off' period of six months within which workers can change their minds, and a requirement for workers to renew their agreement to opt out every year.
The Parliament position favours no exceptions to the 48 hour maximum working time (calculated over 12 months), and says the opt-out must end three years after the adoption of the directive.
It also says that any period of on-call time should count as working time.
If the proposal by the Council of Ministers had gone through in Parliament's vote, as many as 10 million workers would have been excluded from any working time protection in the EU.
The Council's position on the regulation of working time for academic employees would have been nothing less than a leap backwards.
The internal European market needs clear and common rules on working time.
The Council's position would have wrecked working time protection and would have been a threat to the development of work life in Europe.
I firmly believe, first of all, that every person should be free to choose their own working time.
Every state should be in charge of regulating the working time in their respective country.
After the vote, I would now ask if the approval of this directive by the European Parliament now means that the next step that will be taken is to regulate whether, and how much, European citizens can have free time.
My vote should not be seen, in any way, as support for the common position on the Working Time Directive as a whole.
Mr President, I would like to give my explanation of vote on the opt-out principle in the Working Time Directive.
The prospect of improved opportunities for reconciling work and family life depends very much on European values, and the issue of working time is a contributory factor in this.
I supported the idea of a 48 hour working week but I think it is very important to have an adjustment period of sufficient length.
A worker could be called on to work up to 78 hours per week.
Mr Cercas's report seems to have attempted to reach an acceptable compromise.
Conversely, it makes absolutely no mention of the problems faced in other professions when working time is reduced excessively, as with 35 hours.
While this recommendation is meant to be reassuring, while its aim is to ensure the health and safety of European workers and to enable them to reconcile family life ... (The explanation of vote was cut short pursuant to Rule 163 of the Rules of Procedure) It took me some time to decide on the right position to take on this controversial Working Time Directive.
I was inundated with opinions on the common position, which my government has also approved.
Small- and medium-sized enterprises have asked us to endorse the pragmatic solution of the Labour Ministers, particularly in view of the current economic climate.
The trade unions, understandably anxious about the possibility of working hours in the 21st century that are longer than the 48 hours agreed for the maximum working week by the International Labour Organisation in 1919, have declared themselves against this pragmatism.
Since the gap between those who see the common position as their only means of salvation and those who condemn it in the strongest terms appears unbridgeable, I shall vote in such a way as to necessitate conciliation, for this is the only way of achieving a sensible, humane compromise with the Council.
in writing. - (SV) The June List believes that it is first and foremost the social partners and, secondly, the Swedish Parliament that should lay down our rules on working hours.
Now, the trade union movement both in Sweden and in other EU countries has changed its tune and is therefore demanding major changes in the Council's common position.
I would maintain that the new situation that has arisen should be handled in a conciliation procedure between Parliament and the Council.
I have therefore voted in favour of the amendment on on-call time and the United Kingdom's opt-out in order to encourage this sort of political process.
The Working Time Directive limits the working week to 48 hours, averaged over 12 months and will come into force by 2012.
Working more than 48 hours a week poses serious health risks, most importantly the link between long hours and cardiovascular disorder, diabetes mellitus and musculoskeletal problems.
I support the positive impact that this report will have on health and safety in the workplace and the prevention of accidents.
in writing. - (NL) There are forces across Europe that see the present lack of labour protection in the new eastern Member States as an important competitive advantage that enables companies to lower their labour costs.
The Council, however, would like to make this opt-out permanent and widen it, in fact.
The spiral is now tending downwards towards the unacceptable level in the new Member States.
Today, I voted for the amendments in the Cercas report since I believe it is the only way to stop the Council's proposal for a directive on the organisation of working time.
We in my group have always opposed this directive, and we have therefore tabled an amendment rejecting it entirely, since we believe it will set workers' rights back a very long way.
Although the amendments in the Cercas report soften the text of the directive, they make the current situation worse (they keep the opt-out clause for three years and increase the reference period for calculating working hours to six months).
My group feels that the Cercas report is not heading in the right direction of guaranteeing a 35 hour working week under law for the same weekly wage, in order to effectively redistribute wealth.
Today's vote clearly demonstrates that all citizens desire a better, safer and more secure working environment.
Achieving agreement in the Council has been a long and tortuous journey.
In Ireland the government not only had these principles included in the Council conclusions, but has given a written guarantee to Trade Unions to continue promoting and developing these points.
I voted in favour of the Cercas report, which opposes some of the proposals made by the Council in June 2008, which were intended to substantially amend the Directive concerning certain aspects of the organisation of working time, in place since 1993.
As regards on-call time, it is clear to me that it is absolutely essential that this time, including inactive periods, be wholly considered as working time.
By voting in favour of the Cercas report, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs of the European Parliament has adopted a balanced position that protects European workers, and it is a position that I share.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of all the amendments proposed by my colleague from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr Cercas, to defend social achievements in Europe, and the following three issues in particular, which I consider to be fundamental.
Limiting the working week to 48 hours is an imperative that we have defended tooth and nail, since it prevents Member States from imposing upon their workers working conditions that do not respect their fundamental social rights.
With regard to keeping on-call time as working time, the same applies to the health and safety of care workers, but also firefighters, other sectors subject to on-call time and all European citizens.
As my colleague Mr Cercas put it, we are giving them a chance to rectify a poor decision.
in writing. - (PT) Balancing the right to work and rest with the need for competitiveness and even economic viability forces us to choose what we value more.
For our part, the priority must be to maintain and promote employment.
Over time we have sought and claimed the success of the capitalist model, which has allowed us to produce more and better and to offer better living conditions.
These goals remain.
If we look at the debate in the Council, it is quite obvious that those countries which expressed most reservations about the solution found are among those with the worst economic performance.
Rules protecting workers will serve little purpose if there is less and less work and if we thus encourage migration to 'opt-out' countries, whether within or outside Europe.
in writing. - (FR) The global crisis is affecting the fundamental rights of workers and, as a result, there is an increasingly large demand by European citizens for a social Europe.
European governments, however, continue to ignore this reality.
I am therefore delighted by the adoption today of the Working Time Directive, which can provide a response to these social changes.
This is a strong message sent by the European Parliament to the Council.
Governments must now accept their responsibilities and meet the expectations of our fellow citizens.
Indeed, this text provides, inter alia, for the establishment of a working week that cannot, in any circumstances, exceed 48 hours throughout the European Union.
It sets a maximum limit for all of Europe, which will not affect States that have more favourable provisions.
in writing. - I very much resent the idea that people's freedom to work would be restricted to a 48 hour working week.
Therefore, I voted against the progressive abolition of the right of workers to opt out from the maximum 48 hour working week.
The European Union will become an innovative and learning economy that can overcome the low productivity and stagnation of economic growth not by setting boundaries but by promoting the liberalisation of the labour market.
in writing. - (SV) Labour law and working hours are two of the mainstays of the Swedish labour market model.
In the vote today on the Working Time Directive, it therefore seemed natural to follow the Swedish line and defend the collective agreement model by following the compromise reached in the Council.
The fact that the Social Democrats chose to jeopardise our Swedish system in favour of more EU legislation is strange and calls into question their support of the Swedish labour market model.
in writing. - (NL) The working hours regulation touches the very heart of social Europe, weighing up, as it does, staff protection against a flexible organisation of the work.
The Council of Ministers focuses on flexibility.
It is unacceptable for employers in Member States that opt out to negotiate longer working hours, even up to 65 hours a week.
An average working week of 48 hours, calculated over a year, offers more than ample scope for absorbing peak times and for respecting the necessary resting times at the same time.
It is, moreover, absurd, not to include on-call duty that can be spent asleep as working time.
Tired staff can put themselves, and others, in danger.
in writing. - The vote today by Parliament to end the 'opt out' from the Working Time Directive should be welcomed.
The basic principle of labour law is to protect the weaker party - the employee.
in writing. - (EL) The common position arrived at by the Council of Ministers for Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs on 9 June 2008 forms part of the standing objective of the neoliberal forces currently reigning in the EU to deregulate industrial relations and undermine the role of the trade unions and workers' rights.
As far as on-call time is concerned, working time has been divided, with the result that inactive time does not count as working time.
That is why I support the positions and amendments tabled by the GUE/NGL Group seeking the wholesale rejection of the Council's common position and the abolition of the automatic exemption clause as well as the amendments tabled on the abolition of the extension of the reference period and the division of on-call time into active and inactive time.
in writing. - (FR) Amendments 23 and 24 to the Cercas report, concerning Sunday working, were deemed unacceptable on the grounds of compliance with the principle of subsidiarity.
It seemed inappropriate to me for the European Union to legislate on Sunday working and to impose a uniform solution on its Member States, when negotiation on a case-by-case basis enables voluntary and acceptable solutions to be found.
While it is essential to properly regulate the possibilities of working on Sundays, I feel that it must be done at Member State level, taking account of specific social aspects and the nature of the activities.
By reaffirming the application of the principle of subsidiarity, the European Parliament has decided not to prevent these policies from taking account of these different economic and social contexts.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats regret the fact that the number of road traffic deaths within the EU has not fallen at the rate required to achieve the European Traffic Safety Programme targets.
We welcome more effective cross-border monitoring of traffic offences and the establishment of an electronic information system as a means of increasing traffic safety.
Unfortunately, the proposal lacks a legal basis if a country chooses to deal with traffic offences as an administrative matter within the area of criminal law, as is the case in Sweden and in a number of other Member States.
As a consequence, it will be difficult to apply the directive in Sweden and a number of other Member States, while the legal basis for the whole directive may also be brought into question.
Thanks to our joint efforts, we are living in a Union of 27 countries, in which the mobility of persons and goods is no longer a pipe dream but an everyday, physical reality.
In this context, it is wholly inappropriate to have different laws in this field.
I believe that in terms of road safety, it is now possible to put in place monitoring instruments that enable dangers and risks to be considerably reduced - for example, I am very impressed with the Tutor system trialled on certain Italian motorways, which has cut road traffic accidents on those stretches by 50%.
In the Commission's and Parliament's proposal, the issue is dealt with by means of a supranational decision-making process under the EU's first pillar.
However, in common with the Swedish Government, we believe that, as its aim relates to criminal law, the proposed directive should be dealt with on an intergovernmental basis within the framework of legal cooperation under the EU's third pillar.
in writing. - (PT) In 2001, the European Union set itself the fairly ambitious objective of halving the number of persons killed on the roads by 2010.
As a result, we urgently need to stimulate pursuit of this target and create a new approach to European road safety policy.
The law must be applied equally to all citizens.
At the same time, we must improve road safety in order to reduce the number of deaths on European roads.
Finding the appropriate means to achieve this balance between the need to impose appropriate penalties for road traffic offences in the European Union and find a sound legal basis for creating such a network and intervening in areas considered of national competence.
in writing. - (SV) This report proposes that a special electronic system be set up for the exchange of information on drivers between Member States.
This will allow anyone who drives too fast, drives without a seat belt or goes through a red light, to be asked in a simple and efficient manner to pay a fine in the country in which the traffic offence took place.
The European Parliament would like to see the amounts of the fines harmonised, something that is difficult when levels of income vary between Member States.
In addition, there is also a question mark regarding the legal basis for this proposal, which is something that Sweden, among others, has pointed out in the Council.
in writing. - (DE) I have endorsed the report on cross-border enforcement in the field of road safety, since these rules will mean that drivers who commit a road traffic offence in a third country are prosecuted more effectively.
This is associated with the tendency of many drivers to drive more recklessly in third countries than in their home countries as they are less fearful of criminal prosecution.
To begin with, the directive is limited to the prosecution of the four road traffic offences responsible for a total of 75% of fatal and other serious road traffic accidents.
There has not even been a study on the effects of equivalent bilateral agreements that are in place, and have been in place for several years in some cases, such as, for instance, that between France and Germany or France and Luxembourg.
in writing. - (PT) The proposal for a directive seeks to facilitate the enforcement of penalties against drivers who have committed offences relating to speeding, drink-driving, failure to wear a seat belt or failure to stop at red lights (the four most serious offences in terms of loss of human life in the EU) in a Member State other than their own.
in writing. - On behalf of the Irish delegation within the PPE-DE Group, I would like to clarify that we supported the Ayala Sender report on the basis that the aim of the report and its impact will contribute greatly to improved road safety.
in writing. - Every year, thousands of people are killed or injured on Europe's roads.
We know, in reality, that this is not a matter of penalising those who drive badly, but those who drive frequently.
Furthermore, even though there are a great many differences in the conditions for confiscating a driving licence among the Member States, and the systems for the scale of offences and fines in the field of road safety vary from one country to another, Europe wants to establish an electronic system for Member States to exchange information relating to offences committed on their territory, and in order to penalise motorists even more.
in writing. - I support this legislation which aims to facilitate the enforcement of sanctions against drivers who commit an offence in another member state than the one where the vehicle is registered.
in writing. - (NL) Car drivers tend to drive faster abroad than in their own countries, and will also more readily indulge in illegal parking whilst there.
After all, everyone has to pay foreign road tolls and we have been discussing for years the option of collecting electronically registered levies where the person in question lives.
These criminals will be informed of their financial penalties.
in writing. - Firstly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for her hard work on this dossier and, secondly, I would like to congratulate Parliament as a whole for reinforcing this strong position to send to Council in the light of the difficulties this proposal faces there.
There are already bilateral agreements between some Member States for cross-border prosecutions in the case of an infringement of road safety regulations, but there is still no common European framework.
I believe that the Commission's proposal will make a significant contribution to saving human lives.
