Multiannual framework for the Fundamental Rights Agency for 2007-2012 (debate) (FR) The next item is the report by Michael Cashman, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Decision of the Council implementing Regulation (EC) n° 168/2007 on the adoption of a multiannual framework for the Fundamental Rights Agency for 2007-2012 - C6-0322/2007 -.
Just now you told the House that 19 Members had sought to make speeches.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Parliament for the very constructive cooperation and support for the quick adoption of the multiannual framework for the Fundamental Rights Agency for the years 2007-2012.
I am pleased to say that I can accept Amendment 1; Amendment 2 regarding the notion of ethnic minorities; Amendments 3, 4, 5, 8 and 13 (in part) regarding the notion of multiple discrimination; Amendment 15 regarding the notion of social exclusion and Amendment 16 - in particular as all these amendments reflect the compromise solutions found in discussions between the Presidency, the Commission and the rapporteur.
Some of the amendments do not comply with the basic regulation, namely Amendments 10, 11 and 18.
In some cases, amendments go beyond the regulation, particularly Amendment 17.
Some amendments are outside Community competence or the competence of the Agency, namely Amendments 14 and 15 (in part).
Finally, Amendment 12 would significantly limit the scope of the areas to be dealt with by the Agency as laid down in Article 2 of our proposal.
Finally, I cannot accept Amendments 7 and 9.
On Amendment 9, a reference to a review of the multiannual framework before the five-year period is not necessary, given that Commission, Council and Parliament can always request to go outside the scope of Article 2 of the framework.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I should like to thank Vice-President Frattini for those words.
I am pleased to say that this report was adopted by 48 votes in favour, none against and 8 abstentions.
The origins of the Agency are the Charter of Fundamental Rights and all the international conventions on human rights that we have in common amongst the Member States.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
I am delighted that we have reached the adoption of the framework programme for the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and the willingness to cooperate that he has demonstrated throughout what has been a formidable task.
Thank you for your attention.
I am afraid, therefore, that I very much agree with the rapporteur on the content - I am going to consult in my group - but I regret to say that I cannot support the strategy.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, the Fundamental Rights Agency was formed on the basis of the Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, we voted for the report in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
Here in Europe we have attained a certain standard, which we must uphold within the Union for the sake of our credibility.
Everyone agrees that the Fundamental Rights Agency should become operational as soon as possible, but we have not even managed to agree on a director.
They will be available if they are enshrined in binding legislation and if a body such as the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights is able to challenge my compatriots and others in the matter of discrimination based on language. (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be voting wholeheartedly against this report, because I see the Agency as the European watchdog for the political correctness that which is gaining more and more of a hold over Europe.
I also believe that this report, as Mrs Gál, whom I support as spokesperson for my group, has said, is a balanced report which strives to be productive without being over-ambitious.
As the report is realistic I would like to ask Commissioner Frattini, my good friend Franco Frattini, for a little more support.
Therefore, Commissioner, I hope this debate will help you understand the importance of moving from accepting nine amendments to accepting more, and to support the European Parliament's position on this matter. (HU) Thank you very much, Mr President.
The multiannual framework programme is crucial for the Agency's work and for how effective it will be in monitoring fundamental rights and formulating what to do.
I should like to ask you when the Commission intends to launch such an evaluation. (PL) Mr President, while congratulating the rapporteur Michael Cashman, I would like to make one comment, namely: during the sittings of the LIBE committee we discussed in detail whether the Human Rights Agency will or will not be doing the same work as the Council of Europe.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for relenting on the very important issue of Amendment 6, which states 'All human beings are born equal and therefore human rights are indivisible and inviolable'.
Can I thank colleagues for their contributions, and can I just tell you that, when one of the non-attached Members states that they are going to vote against me, when those extremists within Parliament vote against me and against my report, my heart fills with joy and my brain tells me that we have got it absolutely right.
I would say to my good friend Sophia in 't Veld that of course I agree with her, but I believe that the issue of the Roma, privacy and homophobia are already covered.
That is why I have included multiple discrimination.
That is why I strongly protest against the comments by the rapporteur, who said that he does not care whether anyone from the Group of non-attached Members will be voting against him. (FR) Mr Cashman, please, to reply personally on comments that were received as a personal attack.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 17 January 2008.
